The partitioning of circuitry and software on electronic boards in a robot control is arranged to enable respective controls for varied types of robots to be readily assembled and packaged with use of a few standard boards. The basic control system is formed from an arm interface (AIF) board and a torque processor (TP) board and a servo control (SCM) board. The AIF board has a VME bus terminated in multiple pin connectors for interconnection with the TP and SCM boards and any other boards or additional units to be included in a particular robot control. An AIF connector is also provided for TP board connection on a VMX bus. Robot controls with extended control performance are packaged by including additional boards. For example, the system control board includes a VME bus connector for connection to the AIF board to provide a robot control with higher control capacity. Input/output devices such as programmable controllers, peripherals such as CRTs, and supervisory computers can also be coupled to the control through AIF interconnectors. The AIF board contains robot dependent circuitry so that different AIF boards can be used to assemble different controls for different robots. For example, different board circuitry is used for absolute position feedback as opposed to incremental position feedback or for brush type DC motors are opposed to brushless DC motors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot control being adaptable for variably packaged use with a relatively wide variety of robot arms, said control comprising: a first electronic arm interface board including substantially all arm interface control circuitry, dependent on a first robot arm type to be controlled, said arm interface control circuitry including motor drive circuitry and position and velocity feedback processing circuitry for a particular robot arm; at least a second electronic arm interface board including substantially all alternative arm interface control circuitry, dependent on a second robot arm type to be controlled, said alternative arm interface control circuitry including motor drive circuitry and position and velocity feedback circuitry for an alternative robot arm; electronic control board means having control and resource circuitry capable of providing at least a complete basic robot control and being structured to operate substantially independently of the particular robot arm type to be controlled out of any of the different controllable robot arm types; and interconnector means for coupling said electronic control board means with one of said arm interface boards to form an assembled control for the robot arm type associated with said one arm interface board. 2. A robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein said electronic control board means includes a torque processor board including digital torque servo control circuitry, and said electronic control board means further includes a servo control board including position and velocity servo control circuitry and arm solution and system resource circuitry, said first or second electronic arm interface board together with said torque processor board and said servo control board forming said basic robot control. 3. A robot control as set forth in claim 2 wherein said electronic control board means further includes a system control board including arm solution circuitry, said electronic arm interface board selected and said torque processor board with digital torque servo control circuitry and said servo control board and said system control board forming a robot control having expanded control capability with faster trajectory time. 4. A robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said electronics arm interface boards include interconnection means for coupling said motor drive circuitry to power amplifiers associated with motors for the robot joints. 5. A robot control as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said electronic arm interface boards includes interconnection means for externally coupling to supervisory computer means and other robot and machine controls and programmable controllers and input/output devices. 6. An adaptive robot control for interfacing with a plurality of robot arms, said control comprising: an arm interface being of the type dependent for motor drive parameters and feedback control characteristics, said interface being selected from either one of a first or a second electronic arm interface board including, respectively thereon, substantially all required arm interface circuitry, dependent on either one of a first or a second robot arm type to be controlled, said required arm interface circuitry including respective motor drive circuitry and position and velocity feedback processing circuitry for the plurality of robot arms; electronic control board means having control and resource circuitry capable of providing at least a complete basic robot control and being structured to operate substantially independently of any particular robot arm type to be controlled for any of different controllable robot arm types; and interconnector means for coupling said electronic control board means with one of said arm interface boards to form an assembled control for the robot arm type associated with said one arm interface board. 7. A method for implementing robot control being adaptable for interfacing with a plurality of robot arms, said method comprising the steps of: selecting an arm interface of the type dependent on motor drive parameters and feedback control characteristics, said selection being to either of a first or a second electronic arm interface board, basing thereon substantially all necessary arm interface control circuit functions dependent on either one of a first or a second robot arm type to be controlled, said arm type defining respective motor drive functions and position and velocity feedback processing functions unique to the particular arm type used; assembling said selected interface board in circuit with a universal electronic control board means having control and resource circuitry, thereby providing at least a complete basic robot control while operating substantially independently of the particular robot arm type controlled for any of different controllable robot arm types; and interconnecting sad assembly with interconnector means for coupling said electronic control board means with one of said arm interface board to form an assembled control for the robot arm type associated with said one arm interface board. 8. A method as set forth in claim 7 wherein said step of assembling while operating substantially independently of the particular robot arm type with the universal electronic control board means is facilitated by digitally processing motor current feedback and operating with digital torque servo control having position and velocity servo control and arm solution and system circuitry, said arm interface and torque processor and servo resources for operatively providing robot control functions. 