A method and apparatus, comprising a tool having a clam shell design, for sealing the interface volume between the internal wall of a reactor pressure vessel and submerged piping that penetrates the wall, and for cleaning the interface volume using a series of hydraulic and pneumatic operations. The tool is operable from a remote suface location, using a robotic arm for fine positioning, to clamp around the penetrating pipe. Hydraulic nozzles compressed air and mechanical brushes on the tool may be used to dislodge sediment in the interface volume.
Claims I claim: 1. A penetration interface cleaning tool comprising: a pair of clamping elements, each of said elements having first and second distil ends, an internal contoured surface, an outer surface and first and second lateral surfaces, said elements being joined by a hinge at their respective first distil ends, said second distil ends being moveable in a clam-shell fashion between an open position and a closed position in which said second distil ends are substantially abutting each other; a first sealing means disposed on said internal contoured surface and operative to provide a substantially tight seal when said second distil ends are at a closed position; a second sealing means on said first lateral surface of each of said elements, said second selling means being operative between a sealing and an unsealing position; clamping means disposed at said first distil end of each of said elements, proximate to said hinge, for applying a force to move said second distil ends between an open and closed position; and a source of air disposed on said first lateral surface and located radially inward of said second sealing means. 2. The tool of claim 1 wherein said clamping means comprises a wing structure disposed on the outer surface of each of said elements, proximate to said first distil end, a shaft pivotally mounted to a distil end of each of said wing structures and a moveable means operative to impart a force to said distil end of said wing structure. 3. The tool recited in claim 2 wherein said clamping means further comprises spring means operative to force said tool into an open position. 4. The tool recited in claim 1 further comprising a manifold in each of said elements, said manifold being disposed on said first lateral surface of said tool and having connected thereto a plurality of nozzles. 