A linear motor comprised of a plurality of primary coils arranged and spaced sequentially. A fluid intake manifold and a fluid exhaust manifold with at least one conduit in fluid communication between the intake and exhaust manifolds, such that the fluid intake manifold, fluid exhaust manifold and conduit are associated with the primary coils to control the temperature of the motor. A robotically controlled linear motor apparatus for manipulating physical arms in one or more dimensions, with at least one linear motor comprised of primary coils sequentially and spacially arranged and a secondary coil positioned magnetically adjacent to the primary coils. A fluid circulating manifold as described above. A commutator for selectively energizing the primary and secondary coils to create a magnetic imbalance therebetween so that the secondary coil is urged in a direction opposite to that of the flux imbalance. A first arm is fixed to one the secondary coils and a second arm is fixed to the primary coils so that when a secondary coil moves, the first arm moves in reference to the second physical arm. A control for manipulating the first physical arm in one or more dimensions by selectively energizing the commutator to energize the linear motor causing the secondary coil and attached physical arm to move in relation thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fluid-circulating linear motor, comprising: primary coil means for creating a magnetic flux having at least two contacts; moveable secondary coil means for creating a magnetic flux positioned in complementary physical proximity to said primary coil means; commutator assembly means for selectively energizing said primary coil and said secondary coil producing a magnetic flux from said primary coil and said secondary coil means such that the resulting interaction of magnetic fluxes urges said secondary coil to move in a desired direction; and manifold means for circulating a fluid adjacent to said primary coil means, said manifold means in fluid communication with cross flow tubes substantially associated with said primary coils means, wherein a fluid is circulated through said manifold means and said cross flow tubes to transfer energy between said primary coil and said manifold means to control the temperature of said primary coil means. 2. The motor claimed in claim 1, wherein said fluid is circualted through said manifold means to transfer heat from said manifold means to said primary coil means to increase the temperature of said primary coil means. 3. The motor claimed in claim 1, wherein said fluid is circulated through said manifold means to transfer heat from said primary coil to said manifold means to decrease the temperature of said primary coil means. 4. A fluid-circulating linear motor comprising: primary core means for creating a magnetic flux by windings wound around at least two contacts; secondary coil means for creating a magnetic flux positioned in magnetic proximity to said primary core means; fluid circulating manifold means having an intake manifold, and an exhaust manifold, and a plurality of cross-flow tubes in fluid communication between said intake manifold and said exhaust manifold, said manifold means positioned adjacent said primary core and said windings to control the temperature of said primary core means; commutator means for selectively energizing said windings of said primary core means and energizing said secondary coil means such that the interaction of the magnetic flux produced between said primary core means and said secondary coil means urges said secondary coil means in a direction opposite to that of the flux imbalance. 