It is the purpose of this invention to provide a method and apparatus for a compliance control in each degree of freedom of a robotic system independently of other control parameters. This independent compliance control capability allows dexterous assembly operations to be done without elaborate fixture of a work piece. The method of controlling compliance and position of an actuator comprises the steps of acquiring a raw Myoelectric signal from the muscles of a teleoperator, processing the raw Myoelectric signal into compliance control and position control signals and applying the control signal to an actuator(s) of the teleoperated robotic system.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of controlling compliance of a teleoperated robotic system, said method comprising the steps of: acquiring raw myoelectric signals from the muscles of a telecoperator; processing said electric signals into first and second compliance control signals; and applying said first and second compliance control signals to first and second actuators respectively each of which provides a joint of said robotic system with a force signal relative to said compliance control signal. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said processing includes the steps of: processing said myoelectric signals into envelopes of said signals; and controlling an amount of fluid that flows into each of said actuators. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said actuators are antagonistic. 4. A compliance control system for a teleoperated robotic system, comprising: electrodes means for acquiring a myoelectric signal from a teleoperator; first and second signal processing means for processing said myoelectric signals received from said electrodes means into compliance control signals; and first and second servovalves having an input from said first and second signal processing means respectively for controlling fluid flow supplied to first and second actuators respectively; said actuators having an output relative to said fluid flow supplied by said first and second servovalves. 5. The compliance control system of claim 4, wherein each of said first and second signals processing means comprises means for providing an envelope of a rectified myoelectric signals, and a computer controller having an input from said means for providing an envelope of said rectified myoelectric signal and pressure sensing means secured to said actuator and having an output control signal to said servovalve. 6. The control compliance system of claim 5, wherein said means for providing an envelope of said rectified myoelectric signal further comprises amplifier/average means for receiving said myoelectric signal; and buffer amplifier connected to said amplifier/averager means; an optical isolator for preventing said teleoperator from receiving a shot; an attenuation control receiving an input from said optical isolator; and rectifier for rectifying the output from said attenuation control ; and integrator for integrating the output from said rectifier and an averager for averaging said output from said integrator. 7. The compliance control system of claim 4, wherein said actuators are antagonistic. 