A portable tacking unit includes a hand-held tacking head having a cylindrical brush operatively communicating with a central suction unit via a flexible conduit. The unit is readily adapted to electrostatically attract, and remove fine dust particles from surfaces prior to painting, lacquering or coating thereof.
Claims I claim: 1. A portable tacking unit comprising: a tacking head including a cylindrical brush, a housing adapted to rotatably support the brush such that a major portion of the circumference of the brush is exposed and a minor portion thereof is surrounded by the housing, said housing further including an exhaust port disposed proximate the minor portion of the brush and adapted to withdraw ambient air therefrom, said tacking head being relatively lightweight and of a size configured for hand-held operation by a single worker; a central suction unit adapted to provide a flow of air at pressures less than atmospheric; and a flexible conduit operatively connecting said exhaust port to the suction unit such that a low pressure flow of air is established from said exhaust port to said central suction unit. 2. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said brush is a cylindrical brush comprising a rigid inner core having a plurality of feathers affixed thereto. 3. An apparatus as in claim 2, wherein said feathers are ratite feathers. 4. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said brush is approximately 5-72 inches in length and approximately 5-24 inches in width. 5. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said housing includes drive means for rotating the brush. 6. An apparatus as in claim 5, wherein said drive means includes an electric motor. 7. An apparatus as in claim 5, wherein said drive means includes a flexible shaft. 8. An apparatus as in claim 7, wherein said flexible shaft is an elongated flexible shaft in operative communication with the central suction unit. 9. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said brush is adapted to generate a static electrical charge in use so as to attract and retain dust particles thereupon and said housing further includes an ion generator associated therewith and adapted to discharge the static electrical charge from the brush so as to facilitate the release of dust particles attracted thereto. 10. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the major portion of the circumference of the brush corresponds to at least 270.degree. thereof. 11. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said central suction unit is adapted to operate in cooperation with the exhaust port and the flexible conduit so as to withdraw dust particles from the brush. 12. An apparatus as in claim 11 wherein said central suction unit is further adapted to collect the dust particles. 13. An apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said brush is a bristle brush. 14. A portable tacking unit comprising: a tacking head including a cylindrical feather brush approximately 5-72 inches in length and 5-24 inches in width; a housing adapted to rotatably support the brush such that a major portion of the brush is exposed and a minor portion thereof is surrounded by the housing, said housing further including an exhaust port disposed proximate the minor portion of the brush and adapted to withdraw ambient air therefrom, said tacking heat being relatively lightweight and of a size configured for hand-held operation by a single worker; a central suction unit adapted to provide a flow of air at pressures less than atmospheric; and a flexible conduit operatively connecting said exhaust port to the suction unit such that a low pressure flow of air is established from said exhaust port to said central suction unit. 15. A portable tacking unit comprising: a plurality of tacking heads, each head including a cylindrical brush, a housing adapted to rotatably support the brush such that a first portion of the brush is exposed and a second portion thereof is surrounded by the housing, said housing further including an exhaust port disposed proximate the second portion of the brush and adapted to withdraw ambient air therefrom; a central suction unit adapted to provide a flow of air at pressures less than atmospheric; and a plurality of flexible conduits, each conduit associated with one of said plurality of tacking heads and operatively connecting said exhaust port thereof to the suction unit so that a low pressure flow of air is established from the exhaust port to the central suction unit. 16. A robotically operated tacking unit comprising: a tacking head including a cylindrical brush, a housing adapted to rotatably support the brush such that a first portion of the circumference of the brush is exposed and a second portion thereof is surrounded by the housing, said housing further including an exhaust port disposed proximate the second portion of the brush and adapted to withdraw ambient air therefrom; said housing including a coupling thereupon configured for connection to a robot arm; a robot arm connected to said coupling, said arm operable to move the tacking head; a central suction unit adapted to provide a flow of air at pressures less than atmospheric; and a flexible conduit operatively connecting said exhaust port to the suction unit such that a low pressure flow of air is established from said exhaust port to said central suction unit. 