Milking machine methods and apparatus facilitating automatic attachment to the dairy cow's udder, incorporate upstanding thin-walled flexible conical teat cup entrance portals, with the four teat cups preferably positioned upright in a trapezoidal configuration, free for lateral and longitudinal movement horizontally, while resisting vertical displacement. Leaf-spring retainer arms positioned vertically edgewise provide resilient adjustable teat cup positioning. A claw manifold guides milk received from the teat cups in laminar flow streams, minimizing foaming turbulence. A robotic manipulator may be used to attach these milking machines to the udders of a plurality of dairy cows.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic milking unit positioning device mounted on a base at the udder end of a dairy cow milking station, comprising: A. an attacher presented toward the udder of a cow to be milked, B. manipulator actuation means movably mounted on said base for moving the attacher between a milking position under a cow's udder and a retracted position, C. resilient cup support means incorporated in said attacher, D. four teat cups adjustably mounted in a trapezoidal pattern in the resilient support means, each having a rigid shell enclosing a flexible internal teat-receiving inflation tube pulsingly expandable and contractable by external pressure or partial vacuum, surmounted by an upwardly open thin-walled flexible conical entrance portal facing a teat, E. a milk receiving claw manifold having an outlet port and four inlet nipples each connected by flexible conduit means to the lower end of the inflation tube of one of said teat cups, F. delivery conduit means connected to said outlet port for receiving and delivering milk from the outlet port of the claw manifold to a collection point, G. a controllable vacuum source for connection to the delivery conduit means, reducing pressure inside the claw manifold and the lower end of the inflation tube for delivering milk to the collection point, and for intermittent pulsing connection to the region inside the shell surrounding the inflation tube, producing pulsing milking expansion and contraction of the inflation tube, H. sensing means responsive to the positions of the teat cups and the cow's udder, I. and control circuitry means operatively connected to the sensing means, actuating the vacuum source for automatic engagement of the teat cups on the cow's udder, automatic pulsing milking action of the inflation tubes, and automatic collection of the milk delivered therefrom via the claw manifold, and automatic disengagement when the milking operation is completed. 2. The device defined in claim 1, wherein the actuation means includes means for moving the attacher in two directions, a vertical direction, and a longitudinal direction toward and away from the cow to be milked. 3. The device defined in claim 2, wherein the actuation means further includes angular movement means for moving the attacher angularly about a substantially vertical axis. 4. The device defined in claim 1, wherein the sensing means includes sensors responsive to the position of at least two teats of the cow to be milked relative to the attacher whereby the trapezoidal configuration of all four teats can be estimated and the attacher maneuvered by the control circuitry means to position the teat cups in alignment for engagement therewith. 5. The device defined in claim 4, wherein the separation distance between the two teats sensed by the sensing means is reported to the control circuitry means, and the control circuitry means is adapted to adjust the dimensions of the trapezoidal pattern of the teat cup axes in response to said separation distance. 6. The device defined in claim 1, wherein each flexible thin-walled conical entrance portal protrudes upward free-standing for massaging engagement with the cow's udder surrounding the teat received therein. 7. The device defined in claim 1, wherein each flexible conical entrance portal is provided with a smooth interior surface for guiding the teat into engagement within the inflation tube. 8. The device defined in claim 7, wherein the flexible conical entrance portal is provided with wall portions of differing thickness, including at least one thick wall portion maintaining the conical entrance portal against substantial radial deflection, and a thinner wall portion providing resilient vertical and lateral deflectability, permitting the conical entrance portal to collapse partially and embrace flexibly the udder surrounding the engaged teat without climbing or pinching off milk flow, thereby emulating the massaging sucking action of a nursing calf. 9. An automatic milking unit positioning device mounted on a base at the udder end of a dairy cow milking station, comprising: A. a gripper presented toward the udder of a cow to be milked, B. manipulator actuation means movably mounted on said base for moving the gripper between a milking position under a cow's udder and a retracted position, C. an attacher releasably held in the gripper beneath the udder of the cow to be milked having resilient support means, D. four teat cups adjustably mounted in a trapezoidal pattern in the resilient support means, each having a rigid shell enclosing a flexible internal teat-receiving inflation tube pulsingly expandable and contractable by external pressure or partial vacuum, surmounted by an upwardly open thin-walled flexible conical entrance portal facing a teat, E. a milk receiving claw manifold having an outlet port and four inlet nipples each connected by flexible conduit means to the lower end of the inflation tube of one of said teat cups, F. delivery conduit means connected to said outlet port for receiving and delivering milk from the outlet port of the claw manifold to a collection point, G. a controllable vacuum source for connection to the delivery conduit means, reducing pressure inside the claw manifold and the lower end of the inflation tube for delivering milk to the collection point, and for intermittent pulsing connection to the region inside the shell surrounding the inflation tube, producing pulsing milking expansion and contraction of the inflation tube, H. sensing means responsive to the positions of the teat cups and the cow's udder, I. and control circuitry means operatively connected to the sensing means, actuating the vacuum source for automatic engagement of the teat cups on the cow's udder, automatic pulsing milking action of the inflation tubes, and automatic collection of the milk delivered therefrom via the claw manifold, and automatic disengagement when the milking operation is completed. 10. The device defined in claim 9, wherein the actuation means includes means for moving the gripper in two directions, a vertical direction, and a longitudinal direction toward and away from the cow to be milked. 11. The device defined in claim 10, wherein the actuation means further includes angular movement means for moving the gripper angularly about a substantially vertical axis. 12. The device defined in claim 9, wherein the sensing means includes sensors responsive to the position of at least two teats of the cow to be milked relative to the gripper, whereby the trapezoidal configuration of all four teats can be estimated and the gripper maneuvered by the control circuitry means to position the teat cups in alignment for engagement therewith. 13. The device defined in claim 12, wherein the separation distance between the two teats sensed by the sensing means is reported to the control circuitry means, and the control circuitry means is adapted to adjust the dimensions of the trapezoidal pattern of the teat cup axes in response to said separation distance. 14. The device defined in claim 9, wherein each flexible thin-walled conical entrance portal protrudes upward free-standing for massaging engagement with the cow's udder surrounding the teat received therein. 15. The device defined in claim 9, wherein each flexible conical entrance portal is provided with a smooth interior surface for guiding the teat into engagement within the inflation tube. 16. The device defined in claim 15, wherein the flexible conical entrance portal is provided with wall portions of differing thickness, including at least one thick wall portion maintaining the conical entrance portal against substantial radial deflection, and a thinner wall portion providing resilient vertical and lateral deflectability, permitting the conical entrance portal to collapse partially and embrace flexibly the udder surrounding the engaged teat without climbing or pinching off milk flow, thereby emulating the massaging sucking action of a nursing calf. 17. The positioning unit defined in claim 9, wherein the sensing means include an ultrasonic transmitter and receiver. 18. An automatic milking unit positioning device for attaching milking machines to dairy cows in a plurality of adjacent milking stations, comprising: A. track means joining a plurality of milking stations each adjacent to one of a corresponding plurality of stalls accommodating cows to be milked, B. a travelling robotic manipulator movably mounted on said track means for movement between said milking stations, and having an attacher presented toward the udder of cow to be milked, and actuation means for moving the attacher between a milking position under a cow's udder and a retracted position, C. resilient support means incorporated in said attacher, D. four teat cups adjustably mounted in a trapezoidal pattern in the resilient support means, each having a rigid shell enclosing a flexible internal teat-receiving inflation tube pulsingly expandable and contractable by external pressure or partial vacuum, surmounted by an upwardly open thin-walled flexible conical entrance portal facing a teat, E. a milk receiving claw manifold having an outlet port and four inlet nipples each connected by flexible conduit means to the lower end of the inflation tube of one of said teat cups, F. delivery conduit means connected to said outlet port for receiving and delivering milk from the outlet port of the claw manifold to a collection point. G. a controllable vacuum source for connection to the delivery conduit means, reducing pressure inside the claw manifold and the lower end of the inflation tube for delivering milk to the collection point, and for intermittent pulsing connection to the region inside the shell surrounding the inflation tube, producing pulsing milking expansion and contraction of the inflation tube, H. sensing means responsive to the positions of the manipulator and the teat cup cluster and the cow's udder, I. and control circuitry means operatively connected to the sensing means and to the manipulator, actuating the manipulator and the vacuum source for automatic engagement of the teat cups on the cow's udder, automatic pulsing milking action of the inflation tubes, and automatic collection of the milk delivered therefrom via the claw manifold, and automatic disengagement when the milking operation is completed. 19. An automatic milking unit positioning device for attaching milking machines to dairy cows in a plurality of adjacent milking stations, comprising: A. track means joining a plurality of milking stations each adjacent to one of a corresponding plurality of stalls accommodating cows to be milked, B. a travelling robotic manipulator movably mounted on said track means for movement between said milking stations, and having a gripper presented toward the udder of a cow to be milked, and actuation means for moving the gripper between a milking position under a cow's udder and a retracted position, C. an attacher releasably held in the gripper beneath the udder of the cow to be milked having resilient support means, D. four teat cups adjustably mounted in a trapezoidal pattern in the resilient support means, each having a rigid shell enclosing a flexible internal teat-receiving inflation tube pulsingly expandable and contractable by external pressure or partial vacuum, surmounted by an upwardly open thin-walled flexible conical entrance portal facing a teat, E. a milk receiving claw manifold having an outlet port and four inlet nipples each connected by flexible conduit means to the lower end of the inflation tube of one of said teat cups, F. delivery conduit means connected to said outlet port for receiving and delivering milk from the outlet port of the claw manifold to a collection point, G. a controllable vacuum source for connection to the delivery conduit means, reducing pressure inside the claw manifold and the lower end of the inflation tube for delivering milk to the collection point, and for intermittent pulsing connection to the region inside the shell surrounding the inflation tube, producing pulsing milking expansion and contraction of the inflation tube, H. sensing means responsive to the positions of the manipulator and the teat cup cluster and the cow's udder, I. and control circuitry means operatively connected to the sensing means and to the manipulator, actuating the manipulator and the vacuum source for automatic engagement of the teat cups on the cow's udder, automatic pulsing milking action of the inflation tubes, and automatic collection of the milk delivered therefrom via the claw manifold, and automatic disengagement when the milking operation is completed. 20. The device defined in claim 19, wherein the track means incorporates at least two elongated rails, and the robotic manipulator is slidingly mounted on the track 21. The device defined in claim 19, wherein the track means incorporates at least two concave flanged tracks, and the robotic manipulator is rollingly engaged for rolling movement along the flanged tracks. 22. The device defined in claim 19, wherein the actuation means includes means for moving the gripper in two directions, a vertical direction, and a longitudinal direction toward and away from the cow to be milked. 23. The device defined in claim 22, wherein the actuation means further includes angular movement means for moving the gripper angularly about a substantially vertical axis. 24. The device defined in claim 19, wherein the sensing means includes sensors responsive to the position of at least two teats of the cow to be milked relative to the gripper, whereby the trapezoidal configuration of all four teats can be estimated and the gripper maneuvered by the control circuitry means to position the teat cups in alignment for engagement therewith. 25. The device defined in claim 24, wherein the separation distance between the two teats sensed by the sensing means is reported to the control circuitry means, and the control circuitry means is adapted to adjust the dimensions of the trapezoidal pattern of the teat cup axes in response to said separation distance. 26. The device defined in claim 19, wherein each flexible thin-walled conical entrance portal protrudes upward free-standing for massaging engagement with the cow's udder surrounding the teat received therein. 27. The device defined in claim 19, wherein each flexible conical entrance portal is provided with a smooth interior surface for guiding the teat into engagement within the inflation tube. 28. The device defined in claim 27, wherein the flexible conical entrance portal is provided with wall portions of differing thickness, including at least one thick wall portion maintaining the conical entrance portal against substantial radial deflection, and a thinner wall portion providing resilient vertical and lateral deflectability, permitting the conical entrance portal to collapse partially and to embrace flexibly the udder surrounding the engaged teat without climbing or pinching off milk flow, thereby emulating the massaging sucking action of a nursing calf. 29. A teat cup attaching means adapted for deployment under the udder of a cow to be milked, and capable of presenting four upright teat cups for engagement on the cow's udder, comprising: A. a central longitudinal support bar extending forward and rearward beyond both ends of the normal trapezoidal array of teats on the cow's udder, B. a pair of forward support members extending from the forward end of the support bar diagonally rearward and laterally outward, each terminating in a teat cup retaining means, C. a pair of rear support members extending from the rear end of the support bar diagonally forward and laterally outward, each terminating in a teat cup retaining means, D. the support members being relatively rigid vertically to resist downward deflection while simultaneously being relatively flexible laterally to permit lateral deflection, whereby the four teat cups are retained in a cluster at the apices of a generally horizontal trapezoid 30. The teat cup attaching means defined in claim 29, wherein each teat cup is surmounted by an upstanding flexible conical entrance portal, positioned to receive and guide the cow's teats into the teat cups as the cluster support mechanism is raised toward the cow's udder, whereby the reaction force applied by each entering teat acting laterally against its conical entrance portal causes the respective support member to flex laterally into aligned engagement of the teat in the teat cup. 31. The teat cup attaching means defined in claim 29, wherein each teat cup retaining means is pivotally mounted in resiliently biased pivot means at the end of its support member providing flexible adjusted alignment of each teat cup during engagement with the cow's udder. 32. The teat cup attaching means defined in claim 29, wherein the support members are formed as resilient leaf springs of thin band stock having a wide flat cross-section, with the wide dimension positioned vertically while the thin dimension is positioned horizontally. 33. The teat cup attaching means defined in claim 32, wherein the front support member and the rear support member on each side are formed as extensions of a straight central spring strip extending forward and rearward beyond both ends of the normal trapezoidal teat array, and wherein the straight central spring strips are carried together side-by-side. 34. The teat cup attaching means defined in claim 33, wherein the central spring strips are formed with laterally arched central sectors concavely facing each other, and further including means applying lateral force tending to bring said facing sectors together, causing the teat cups to move toward each other forming a smaller trapezoidal configuration. 35. The teat cup attaching means defined in claim 33, wherein the central spring strips are formed with laterally arched central sectors concavely facing each other, and further including means applying lateral force tending to separate said facing sectors, causing the teat cups to move apart forming a larger trapezoidal configuration. 36. The teat cup attaching means defined in claim 35, wherein the lateral force-applying means comprises movable wedge means operatively positioned between the concavely facing arched sectors. 37. A teat cup attaching means adapted for deployment under the udder of a cow to be milked, and capable of presenting four upright teat cups for engagement on the cow's udder, adapted to be supported by movable gripper means raising it into engagement with the cow's udder, and releasing it for milking, comprising: A. a pair of substantially parallel longitudinally elongated adjusting bars mounted for lateral movement toward and away from each other, B. a pair of forward U-shaped arms, concavely facing rearward, each having an inner end pivotally joined to the forward end of one adjusting bar and and an outer end spaced laterally outward therefrom provided with teat cup retaining means, C. a pair of rear U-shaped arms, concavely facing forward, each having an inner end pivotally joined to the rear end of one adjusting bar, and an outer end spaced laterally outward therefrom provided with teat cup retaining means, D. a forward link movably connecting the forward arms, E. a rear link movably connecting the rear arms, F. and adjusting means for changing the lateral spacing between the adjusting bars, thereby moving the U-shaped arms relative to the links to enlarge or reduce the spacing between the teat cups in the retaining means. 38. A claw manifold for incorporation in a milking machine for collecting milk received by four teat cups via hoses and delivering it through an outlet port via a delivery conduit to a collection point, comprising: A. a hollow claw housing enclosing a manifold chamber drained through said outlet port at one end of said chamber, B. a first pair of nipples, each connected by one said hose to a teat cup, opening into said chamber near said outlet port and oriented to deliver arriving milk streams along angularly converging streamlines toward said outlet port, C a second pair of nipples, each connected by one said hose to a teat cup, opening into said chamber at its opposite end and oriented to deliver arriving milk streams along streamlines angularly converging toward said opposite end, D. and milk stream deflecting surface means formed in said opposite chamber end receiving the converging milk streams and re-directing them toward said outlet port, whereby all four arriving milk streams converge at the outlet port in substantially streamline non-turbulent flow, minimizing foaming and turbulence in the milk collected by the claw manifold. 39. The claw manifold defined in claim 38, further incorporating vent means facilitating drainage of milk through the outlet port. 40. The claw manifold defined in claim 38, wherein the deflecting surface means is formed in said opposite end wall of said claw housing. 41. The claw manifold defined in claim 40, wherein said deflecting surface means is divided into two concavely curved lobes. 42. The claw manifold defined in claim 41, wherein said lobes are separated by a partition extending from said opposite housing end toward said outlet port. 43. The claw manifold defined in claim 42, wherein said chamber is divided into two parts over the major part of its length from the opposite end to the outlet port. 44. A method for simultaneously attaching a plurality of milking machine teat cups having upstanding conical entrance portals to the udder of a dairy cow restrained at a milking station, comprising the steps of: A. positioning the teat cups in a trapezoidal configuration free for lateral and longitudinal movement in a substantially horizontal plane while resisting displacement in vertical directions, B. connecting the teat cups to a vacuum source and to a milk collection point, C. raising the plurality of teat cups simultaneously to bring the teat cups into engagement with the cow's teats, D. while simultaneously actuating the vacuum source to draw the teat cups into engagement on respective teats, guided by the conical entrance portals slidingly co-acting with the teats and horizontally deflecting the teat cups, whereby individual manual attachment of each teat cup is avoided by simultaneous elevating self-guided movement of all teat cups into attached position ready for automatic milking to begin. 45. A method for simultaneously attaching a plurality of milking machine teat cups having upstanding conical entrance portals to the udder of a dairy cow restrained at a milking station, comprising the steps of: A. mounting the teat cups respectively at the free ends of flexible retainer arms which are relatively free for lateral and longitudinal movement in a substantially horizontal plane while being relatively rigid in resisting displacement in vertical directions, B. mounting the opposite ends of the retainer arms in an attacher deployable beneath the cow's udder, C. connecting the teat cups to a vacuum source and to a milk collection point, D. raising the attacher mounting the retainer arms to bring the teat cups into engagement with the cow's teats, E. while simultaneously actuating the vacuum source to draw the teat cups into engagement on respective teats, guided by the conical entrance portals slidingly co-acting with the teats and horizontally deflecting the teat cups by resiliently deflecting the flexible retainer arms horizontally, whereby individual manual attachment of each teat cup is avoided by simultaneous elevating self-guided movement of all teat cups into attached position ready for automatic milking to begin. 