A means and method for control of an autonomous vehicle while working on a surface, specifically for operation of an automatic floor cleaning machine using power derived from line power through a wall plug and cord. The vehicle uses information derived from contact between bumpers and objects in the environment to sense the geometry of its environment and utilizes a recursively applied algorithm to systematically and efficiently cover the floor area.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling the movement of an autonomous vehicle working on a surface, said vehicle having means for moving the vehicle, means for turning the vehicle, means for determining the distance traversed by the vehicle and means for sensing contact of the vehicle with an obstacle, comprising: a. establishing a starting point for the vehicle to work on the surface; b. from an origin point, initially at the starting point, causing the vehicle to traverse a distance "R", or until the vehicle encounters an obstacle; c. causing the vehicle to return to the origin after traversing the distance "R" or encountering an obstacle; d. upon completion of the return in the step c, at the origin, turning the vehicle through an angle; and e. in an "iteration", repeating the steps b, c and d until the total of the angles turned in the step d reaches a predetermined limit. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein, in the step d, the vehicle is turned through an angle inversely proportional to the distance traversed in the step b. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined limit is 180 degrees. 4. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: f. upon reaching the predetermined limit, moving the vehicle to a location a distance "R" or less from the origin, said location defining a new, exploratory origin point for further movement of the vehicle; and g. iterating the step e using the new origin point. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein a sector is defined by the subsequent successful traverses of a distance "R" in the step b. 6. A method according to claim 5, wherein, in the step f, the vehicle is moved a distance "R" to the midpoint of an arc defined by the sector, said midpoint of the arc being the new, exploratory origin point. 7. A method according to claim 5, further comprising: h. repeating the steps f and g in sequential iterations of the step e until in a current iteration of the step e it is determined that there are no sectors. 8. A method according to claim 7, further comprising: i. after determining that there are no sectors in the current iteration of the step e, returning to the origin point used in the previous iteration of the step e and exploring any unexplored sectors in that iteration. 9. A method according to claim 8, further comprising: j. repeating the step i until the vehicle has arrived at the starting point and there are no unexplored sectors in the first iteration of the step e. 10. A method according to claim 5, wherein, for large sectors, the sector is divided into subsectors, each subsector being treated as a sector for further exploration. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein a large sector is defined as approximately ten or more contiguous traverses the distance "R" in a current iteration of the step e. 12. A method according to claim 4, wherein, in the step f, the vehicle is moved a distance less than "R" to the midpoint of a chord defined by the sector, said midpoint of the chord being the new, exploratory origin point. 13. A method according to claim 4, further comprising: h. repeating the steps f and g until the vehicle has reached a predetermined distance from the starting point. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein the predetermined limit is the length of a cord providing power to the vehicle from a wall outlet (main). 15. A method according to claim 4, further comprising: h. defining a sector as one or more successive traverses which result in the vehicle traversing the distance "R", in the step b, for a current iteration of the step e; and i. in the step f, moving the vehicle along a path bisecting a sector to the location defining a new origin for the next iteration of the step e. 16. A method according to claim 15, wherein: j. in the step d the vehicle is turned in one angular direction; and k. in the event that more than one sector is defined by an iteration of the step e, moving the vehicle in the step i along a path bisecting the sector most opposite the direction the vehicle is turned in the step j. 17. A method according to claim 15, further comprising: j. in the event that a current iteration of the step e results in no sectors, causing the vehicle to return to the origin point for the previous iteration of the step e; and m. in the step f, moving the vehicle along another sector to a location defining a new origin for the next iteration of the step e. 18. A method according to claim 1, wherein the starting point is adjacent a wall outlet, and further comprising: prior to performing the step b, turning the vehicle to align with a wall. 19. A method according to claim 1 wherein the vehicle is a floor vacuuming machine. 20. A method according to claim 1 wherein the vehicle derives power through a cord from household current (mains). 21. A method according to claim 20, further comprising: f. sensing when the cord is entirely played out from the vehicle; and g. treating the entire playing out of the cord from the vehicle as the vehicle encountering an obstacle for the purposes of the step b. 22. Apparatus for working on a surface, comprising: a vehicle; means for moving of the vehicle; means for turning the vehicle; means for determining distance traversed by the vehicle; means for sensing contact of the vehicle with an obstacle; and means, responsive to the means for determining distance and the means for sensing contact, for controlling the movement of the vehicle from an origin point, and for controlling the turning of the vehicle at the origin point; wherein the means for controlling causes the vehicle to traverse from an origin point a distance "R", or until the vehicle encounters an obstacle, and to return to the origin point; wherein, after a traverse and return, the means for controlling causes the vehicle to turn through an angle at the origin point and then traverse from the origin point a distance "R", or until the vehicle encounters an obstacle, and to return to the origin point, repeatedly, until the cumulative angle turned through at the origin by the vehicle reaches a limit. 23. Apparatus according to claim 22, wherein, after a traverse and return, the vehicle is caused to turn at an angle inversely proportional to the distance traversed. 