A sequence of impulses is determined which eliminates unwanted dynamics of a dynamic system. This impulse sequence is convolved with an arbitrary command input to drive the dynamic system to an output with a minimum of unwanted dynamics. The input sequence is time optimal in that it constitutes the shortest possible command input that results in no unwanted dynamics of the system subject to robustness and implementation constraints. The preshaping technique is robust under system parameter uncertainty and may be applied to both open and closed loop sy The Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Grant Number N00014-86-K-0685 awarded by the Department of the Navy.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for generating an input to a physical system to minimize unwanted dynamics in the physical system response comprising: establishing expressions quantifying the unwanted dynamics of the physical system; establishing first constraints bounding the available input to the physical system; establishing second contraints on variation in system response with variations in the physical system characteristics; finding a solution which is used to generate the input which minimizes the value of the expressions while satisfying the first and second constraints; and controlling the physical system based on the input to the physical system whereby unwanted dynamics are minimized. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the solution is a sequence of impulses for the input which satisfies the expressions and the first and second constraints. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the solution is a sequence of finite duration pulses which satisfies the expressions and the first and second constraints. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the solution is a sequence of impulses or pulses that begin at specified intervals. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the solution is a sequence of impulses or pulses which are fixed in amplitude but variable in duration. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the solution is a sequence of pulses which are variable in amplitude but fixed in duration. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the physical system is a mechanical system. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the physical system is an electrical system. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the physical system is a chemical system. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the dynamic system has p vibrational modes characterized by undamped natural frequencies .omega..sub.i and damping ratios .zeta..sub.i, i=1 . . . p, establishing p sets of constraint equations, with the equations representing the first and second series of constraints and solving the p constraint equations simultaneously to yield a new input sequence. 11. Method for shaping an arbitrary command input to a dynamic physical system to reduce unwanted dynamics in the physical system comprising: determining an impulse sequence which eliminates unwanted dynamics of the physical system; convolving the impulse sequence with the arbitrary command input to shape the input; and controlling the physical system based on the shaped command input to the physical dynamic system. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the impulse sequence is selected to improve robustness to system variability. 13. The method of claim 1 or claim 11 wherein the dynamic system has a single vibrational mode characterized by an undamped natural frequency .omega..sub.1 and a damping ratio .zeta..sub.1 and impulse sequences determined as the solution to the equations ##EQU6## and A.sub.j is the amplitude of the jth impulse. 14. The method of claim 13 where N=3 and M=1. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein impulses or pulses are allowed to assume negative values. 16. The method of claim 13 where N=4 and M=2. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein impulses or pulses are allowed to assume negative values. 18. The method of claim 13 where M is any integer value and N=M+2. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein impulses or pulses are allowed to assume negative values. 20. The method of claim 13 wherein impulses or pulses are allowed to assume negative values. 21. Method for shaping an arbitrary command input to a dynamic physical system having multiple vibrational modes to reduce end point vibration comprising: determining impulse sequences which eliminate vibration of the dynamic physical system at the natural frequencies of its modes; convolving the impulse sequences with the arbitrary command input to shape the input; and controlling the physical system based on the shaped command input to the dynamic physical system. 22. Method for shaping an arbitrary command input to a dynamic physical system having p vibrational modes characterized by undamped natural frequencies .omega..sub.1 and damping ratios .zeta..sub.i, i=1 . . . p, to reduce endpoint vibration comprising: determining p impulse sequences which eliminate vibration of the dynamic physical system at the natural frequencies of its modes; convolving the impulse sequences with the arbitrary command input to shape the input; and controlling the physical system based on the shaped command input to the dynamic physical system. 23. The method of any one of claims 1-12 or 21-10 wherein impulses or pulses are allowed to assume negative values. 24. Apparatus for shaping an arbitrary command input to a dynamic physical system to reduce endpoint vibration comprising: computing apparatus for determining an impulse sequence which eliminates vibration of the dynamic physical system at its natural frequencies; apparatus for convolving the impulse sequence with the arbitrary command input to shape the input; and apparatus for controlling the physical system based on the shaped command input to the dynamic physical system. 25. Method for generating an input to a physical system having varying characteristics to minimize unwanted dynamics in the physical system response comprising: establishing expressions quantifying the unwanted dynamics of the physical system; establishing first constraints bounding the available input to the physical system; establishing second constraints on variation in physical system response with variations in the physical system varying characteristics; finding a solution which is used to generate an input which minimizes the value of the expressions while satisfying the first and second constraints, whereby the solution tracks the varying system; and controlling the physical system based on the input to the physical system whereby unwanted dynamics are minimized in the varying system. 26. Method for shaping an arbitrary command input to a varying dynamic physical system to reduce unwanted dynamics in the physical system comprising: determining an input sequence which eliminates unwanted dynamics of the physical system; convolving the impulse sequence with the arbitrary command input to shape the input; and controlling the physical system based on the shaped command input to the varying dynamic physical system. 27. Method for generating an input to a robot arm to minimize unwanted dynamics in the robot arm response comprising: establishing expressions quantifying the unwanted dynamics of the robot arm; establishing first constraints bounding the available input to the robot arm; establishing second constraints on variation in robot arm response with variation in robot arm characteristics; finding a solution which is used to generate the input which minimizes the value of the expressions while satisfying the first and second constraints; and controlling the robot arm based on the input whereby unwanted dynamics are minimized. 