A storage and retrieval subsystem in a data processing system includes a plurality of magnetic tape cartridges, a host computer, and a library storage module storing the plurality of magnetic tape cartridges in substantially upright positions. The library storage module includes a first cylindrical array of storage cells centered about a vertical axis, a second cylindrical array concentrically arranged about the first array, and a library tape unit including a plurality of tape drives, each of the tape drives being adapted to receive one of the magnetic tape cartridges in a substantially horizontal transducing position. A robot within the library storage module is used to transfer selected ones of the magnetic tape cartridges between their substantially upright positions and the substantially horizontal transducing positions at a selected tape drive. A first controller outboard the channel communicating with the host computer is adapted to receive commands from the host computer for interfacing between the host computer and the library storage module, and a second controller inboard of the channel is adapted to receive commands from the outboard controller for interfacing between the outboard controller and the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A magnetic tape cartridge storage and retrieval system comprising: a plurality of library storage modules, each said library storage module including: a first cylindrical array having radially outward disposed storage cells; a second cylindrical array, concentrically arranged about said first cylindrical array, said second cylindrical array having radially inwardly disposed storage cells; first transfer means for manually inputting and outputting magnetic tape cartridges to and from said library storage module; at least one tape drive adapted for use with said magnetic tape cartridges; second transfer means for automatically moving selected ones of said magnetic tape cartridges between said library storage modules and; third transfer means, in each of said library storage modules, for selectively moving magnetic tape cartridges between said storage cells, said tape drives and said first and second transfer means. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said first transfer means comprises: a cartridge access port formed in a said outer array and adapted to open outward therefrom; and a safety shield attached to said cartridge access port for preventing access to said storage module when said cartridge access port is opened. 3. The system according to claim 2, wherein said cartridge access port comprises: a box-like door hingedly coupled to said outer array, said door including an upper wall and a lower wall each having formed therein a cam groove; and a fixed array of storage cells mounted within said door. 4. The system according to claim 3, wherein said safety shield comprises: an articulated screen attached along one side thereof to said outer array; and a pair of cam followers, adapted to fit within said cam grooves, said cam followers coupled to said articulated screen for extending same across the opening in said outer array left upon opening of said access door. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein said second transfer means comprises: means for interconnecting adjacent pairs of said modules; a rotatable carriage coupled to said interconnecting means; and an array of storage cells mounted upon said carriage. 6. The system according to claim 5, wherein said interconnecting means comprises: an access formed in each of said outer arrays; a cam surface coupled between adjacent pairs of accesses; and a pair of parallel guide rods extending perpendicularly between said accesses. 7. The system according to claim 6, further comprising: drive means for rotating said carriage, said drive means including a lead screw coupled to a nut mounted beneath said carriage and rotated by a drive motor attached thereto; and shaft encoder means attached to said drive motor for controllably rotating same thereby translating said nut along said lead screw. 8. The system according to claim 7, wherein said carriage comprises: a sled portion attached to said nut; roller bearing means attached to said sled portion and coupled to said guide rods for controlling the movement of said sled portion between said modules; a plate supporting said array of storage cells; a spring loaded pivot pin coupled between said plate and said sled portion; a pair of cam followers attached to said plate; wherein translation of said nut along said lead screw forces said cam followers upon said cam surface thereby rotating said array of storage cells from the outer array of one said module to the outer array of the other interconnected module. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein said third transfer means comprises: a supervisory-controlled robot including an arm mounted for rotation within said module, a wrist assembly coupled to said arm between said first and second arrays, a Z-mechanism attached to said arm for raising and lowering said wrist assembly, a pair of hands mounted in an opposing relationship upon said wrist assembly, and a vision system; controller means coupled to said robot for directing the movement thereof; and a carriage assembly for receiving cartridges from said robot and loading same upon said tape drives. 10. In an object handling system that includes two or more self contained, independently operating object handling modules, each of which includes a plurality of object storage locations and a robot for retrieving objects stored in said object storage locations, each of said two or more object handling modules juxtaposed to at least one other of said two or more object handling modules, apparatus for interconnecting said juxtaposed object handling modules to automatically compensate for multidimensional misalignment between said two juxtaposed object handling modules comprising: at least one movable object storage location pivotally connected to carriage means for receiving at least one of said objects from said robot; means for transporting said at least one movable object storage location and said carriage means between two said juxtaposed object handling modules to pass objects therebetween; first means located in a first one of said two juxtaposed object handling modules and connected to one end of said transporting means for positioning said at least one movable object storage location and said carriage means in alignment with said object storage locations in said first object handling module for access by said robot contained therein; second means located in a second one of said two juxtaposed object handling modules and connected to a second end of said transporting means for position said at least one movable object storage location and said carriage means in alignment with said object storage locations in said second object handling module for access by said robot contained therein. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said apparatus further includes: spring means for biasing at least one object storage location to face in a direction that is perpendicular to the path of travel between said two juxtaposed object handling modules. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein each of said positioning means includes: means responsive to said transporting means moving said carriage means toward said positioning means for rotating said pivotally connected at least one object storage location to face said robot contained in said associated object handling module. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein each of said positioning means further includes: means responsive to said transporting means moving said carriage means toward said positioning means for automatically varying the height of said at least one object storage location above said carriage means to match the alignment of the plurality of object storage locations in said associated object handling module. 14. An expandable robotic object handling system for robotically storing and retrieving a plurality of objects stored therein comprising: two or more object storage modules, each including: a polygonal array of object storage locations forming a piecewise cylindrial array, at least one aperture, located in a corresponding side of said polygonal array, for transferring objects into and out of said object storage module, robot means located within said polygonal array for transporting said objects between said object storage locations and said aperture; means for attaching said aperture containing side of a first of said object storage modules with an aperture containing side of a second of said object storage modules, including: at least one object storage location for receiving one of said objects from said robot means, means for transporting said at least one object storage location between said aperture containing sides of said first and second object storage modules to pass said objects therebetween. 