A method is for controlling a robotic vehicle having a control section and a travel section, in which the travel section is equipped with a transport device for transporting the robotic vehicle from a start location to a target location. According to the method, the control section is supplied with the target location. An optimal nodal path from the start location to the target location is then determined and defined by a plurality of successive nodes. A plurality of command sets for each of the plurality of successive nodes is respectively prepared. Each command set specifies at least a target speed and target direction of the robotic vehicle as the robotic vehicle is transported from a vicinity of one node to a vicinity of a next node. The plurality of command sets are output to the travel section of the robotic vehicle. The actual travel speed and travel path of the robotic vehicle is then determined based on the target speed and target directions provided in the command sets, and further based on the particularities of the transport device of the robotic vehicle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling a robotic vehicle having a control section and a travel section, the travel section being equipped with a transport device for transporting the robotic vehicle from a start location to a target location, said method comprising the steps of: (a) supplying to the control section the target location; (b) determining an optimal nodal path from the start location to the target location, the optimal nodal path being defined by a plurality of successive nodes, wherein each of the plurality of successive nodes represents a proximity at which the robotic vehicle changes direction; (c) preparing a plurality of command sets for each of the plurality of successive nodes respectively, each command set specifying at least a target speed and target direction of the robotic vehicle as the robotic vehicle is transported from a vicinity of one node to a vicinity of a next node; (d) outputting the plurality of command sets from the control section to the travel section; (e) determining an actual travel speed and travel path of the robotic vehicle as the robotic vehicle is transported from a vicinity of a first node to a vicinity of a second node and then to a vicinity of a third node, wherein the actual travel speed and travel path between the first node and the second node is determined based on the target speeds and target directions specified in a command set for the second node and a command set for the third node, and is further based on characteristics of the transport device of the robotic vehicle. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of sensing physical barriers external to the robotic vehicle, wherein the actual travel speed and travel path is further based on any physical barriers sensed while the robotic vehicle is transported from node to node. 3. A method as recited in claim 2, further comprising the step of equipping the transport device with a transverse motion capability. 4. A method as recited in claim 3, further comprising the step of equipping the transport device with an oblique motion capability. 5. A method as recited in claim 2, further comprising the step of equipping the transport device with an oblique motion capability. 6. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of equipping the transport device with a transverse motion capability. 7. A method as recited in claim 6, further comprising the step of equipping the transport device with an oblique motion capability. 8. A method as recited in claim 1, further comprising the step of equipping the transport device with an oblique motion capability. 