A connector for an Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU) includes a screw in an active connector structure which mates with a floating nut in a passive connector structure. Two alignment pins in active structure mate with sockets in the passive structure. As the screw is turned, a push rod assembly in the active structure couples to a one-axis restraint in the passive structure. One alignment pin has a two-axis restraint and the other has a three-axis restraint. The screw is driven manually or by a robot to cooperate with the alignment pins and sockets to provide a three point mount.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interface connector for connecting one unit to a second unit comprising: an active connector structure coupled to said one unit including: a connector bracket with at least one mating coupler half extending from said connector bracket, a screw having a reduced diameter portion, a threaded portion and a tapered tip portion with the reduced diameter portion passing through the center of said connector bracket to allow free rotation of the screw and coupling of the screw to the connector bracket with the threaded and tapered tip portions protruding from said connector bracket, and a push rod assembly, coupled to said screw and extending to a point of said one unit remote from said screw, for engaging a remote socket in said second unit, and first and second alignment devices aligned parallel to each other and to said screw; and a passive connector structure on the second unit including: a floating nut adapted to receive and engage the threads of said screw, a mating coupler half adapted to mate with said one coupler half, a remote socket located at a point remote from said floating nut for being engaged by said push rod assembly, and third and fourth alignment devices adapted to receive and contact said first and second alignment devices, whereby when said one unit is adjacent said second unit and said alignment devices provide alignment, said screw tapered tip is placed through the floating nut for engagement of the threads of the screw with the threads of said nut, and the screw is turned the connector bracket with said one coupler half is driven so as to mate with the mating coupler half and said push rod assembly engages said remote socket. 2. An interface connector for connecting one unit to a second unit comprising: an active connector structure coupled to the one unit including at one end a connector bracket and having at least one mating coupler half extending from said connector bracket, a load spreader beam, said spreader beam including protruding alignment pins near opposite ends of said beam, a screw extending through the center of said load spreader beam and said connector bracket, said screw having a tapered tip and a threaded portion protruding from said connector bracket and said spreader beam, said screw having a broader head end that extends above said spreader beam and is too large to pass therethrough; and a passive connector structure on the second unit including a floating nut adapted to receive the tapered tip and engage the threads of said screw, a mating coupler half adapted to mate with said one coupler half, a remote socket remote from said floating nut, and tapered sockets adapted to receive said alignment pins, said active connector structure further including a push rod assembly coupled to said screw and extending to a point near an end of said active connector structure remote from said screw for engaging said remote socket in said passive connector structure, said push rod assembly being coupled to said screw to be responsive to said screw being driven towards said floating nut for extending part of said push rod assembly into said remote socket; whereby when said one unit is placed on said second unit and said pins are guided into said sockets providing alignment and the tapered tip of said screw placed through the floating nut for engagement of the threads of the screw with the threads of said nut, and when the screw is turned, the connector bracket with said one coupler half is driven so as to mate with the mating coupler half, and when the screw is further turned the broader head end of said screw engages the load spreader beam which translates a load to the pins and the pin sockets to provide a rigid connected structure. 3. The combination of claim 2 wherein a bottom surface of said one unit includes a trough to receive said push rod assembly. 4. The combination of claim 3 wherein said push rod assembly includes a shear pin at one end thereof and said second unit includes said remote socket located in a recess adapted to receive said shear pin extending from said push rod assembly, said recess adapted to permit lengthwise movement of the shear pin into and out of said remote socket. 5. The combination of claim 4 wherein said remote socket includes a ring with a ball bushing. 6. The combination of claim 1 wherein said mating coupler half includes an electrical connector. 7. The combination of claim 2 wherein one of said alignment pins has a ball tip and an associated one of said tapered sockets is bowl-shaped. 8. The combination of claim 2 where one of said pins is V-shaped and an associated one of the tapered sockets is a V-shaped groove. 9. The combination of claim 2 wherein one of said pins and an associated socket provides a 3-axis restraint and the other of said pins and an associated socket provides a 2-axis restraint. 10. An interface connector for connecting a unit to a platform comprising: an active connector structure coupled to the unit including at one end a connector bracket with at least one mating coupler half extending from said connector bracket, a load spreader beam, said spreader beam including protruding alignment pins near opposite ends of said beam, a screw having a reduced diameter portion, a threaded portion and a tapered tip portion, said screw extending through the center of said load spreader beam and said connector bracket at the reduced diameter portion of the screw with the threaded and tapered tip portions of the screw protruding from said connector bracket and said spreader beam, said screw passing through said connector bracket at said reduced diameter portion to allow rotation of the screw and coupling of the screw to the connector bracket, said screw having a broader head end extending above said spreader beam and being too large to pass therethrough; and a passive connector structure on the platform including a floating nut adapted to receive the tapered tip portion and engage the thread portion of said screw, a mating coupler half adapted to mate with said one coupler half, a remote socket located remote from said floating nut, and tapered sockets having a bottom and adapted to receive said alignment pins, said pins, sockets and screw being located so that when said one unit is placed on said platform said tapered tip portion of said screw is placed through the floating nut and said pins are guided into said sockets providing alignment and engagement of the threads of the screw with the threads of said nut, and when the screw is turned the connector bracket with said one coupler half is driven so as to mate with the mating coupler half, and when the screw is further turned and the broader head end of said screw engages the load spreader beam and drives said pins against the bottoms of said sockets, said active connector structure further including a push rod assembly coupled to said screw and extending to a point near an end of said unit remote from said screw for engaging said remote socket in said platform, said push rod assembly being coupled to said screw to be responsive to said screw being driven into said floating nut for extending said push rod into said remote socket; whereby the spreader beam translates a load to said pins and the pin sockets to provide a rigid connected structure. 11. The combination of claim 10 wherein said push rod assembly is coupled to said screw at a second reduced diameter portion of said screw. 