A control system is provided for a workcell having a plurality of electric robots and a plurality of workcell equipment items in turn having a plurality of control and sensor devices associated therewith. Respective electronic robot controllers are disposed at respective workcell locations to operate robots as a part of the workcell process. Each robot controller has a floppy disk or other means for loading program data for one of the robot controllers. A first input/output control module is disposed at another workcell location and it has connected thereto as inputs a first group of the sensor devices and as outputs a first group of the control devices. Second and third input/output control modules are disposed at additional workcell locations and have connected thereto as inputs second and third groups of the sensor devices and as outputs second and third groups of the control devices. Additional input/output control modules are associated with the other robot controllers, and are similarly connected and placed in spaced workcell locations. A serial local area network connects each robot controller and its associated input/output modules to provide for program and process data communication. Each of the input/output modules has means including a microprocessor for operating the module in accordance with a system operating program downloadable from the associated robot controller to the module and for processing inputs and outputs in accordance a user process program downloadable from the associated robot controller to the module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control system for a workcell having at least one electric robot and a plurality of workcell equipment items in turn having a plurality of control and sensor devices associated therewith, said system comprising: a first electronic robot controller disposed at a first workcell location to operate said robot as a part of the workcell process; means for loading program data into said robot controller; a first input/output control module disposed at a second workcell location and having connected thereto as inputs a first group of said sensor devices and as outputs a first group of said control devices; at least a second input/output control module disposed at a third workcell location and having connected thereto as inputs at least a second group of said sensor devices and as outputs at least a second group of said control devices; a serial local area network connecting said robot controller and said input/output modules to provide for program and process data communication; and each of said input/output modules having computing means including a microprocessor for operating the module in accordance with a module operating program downloadable from said robot controller to the module and for processing inputs and outputs in accordance with a user process program downloadable from said robot controller to the module. 2. A workcell control system as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said input/output modules has a first memory for said module operating program and a second memory for said user process program. 3. A workcell control system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said module operating program is initiated in accordance with a communications interrupt cyclically generated at a first rate and a process input/output interrupt cyclically generated at a second rate. 4. A workcell control system as set forth in claim 3 wherein said user process program includes a plurality of logic equations executable in said computing means to generate process outputs for sequential and other controlled operation of the workcell equipment items. 5. A workcell control system as set forth in claim 3 wherein said module operating program includes instructions for detecting which of a plurality of different types of commands has been received from the robot controller and for generating a response thereto. 6. A workcell control system as set forth in claim 1 wherein a plurality of additional robots and respectively associated additional electronic robot controllers are provided for the workcell, each of said additional robot controllers having connected thereto at least one input/output module like said first and second input/output modules and if desired additional such like modules to provide input/output control through said additional robot controllers in the manner described for said first robot controller. 