A process for induction heating of melt-out metal cores contained within articles or components made of plastic. The process uses induction heating and redirects flux lines for efficient melting. A high permeability magnetic core is heated by an induction heating coil about at least a portion of the magnetic core to produce flux circulation in a magnetic circuit formed by the magnetic core. Two magnetic nozzles are attached to the magnetic core with a gap therebetween for insertion of a specific shape of plastic article, the magnetic nozzles being shaped to direct and position a desired pattern of flux lines to heat and melt the metal core of the plastic article.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows. 1. A process of melting a metal core from a molded plastic article placed in a hot liquid bath wherein the metal core is made of a low melting point alloy which has a melting temperature below the melting temperature of said plastic article comprising the steps of: positioning at least one plastic article in the hot liquid bath in a gap between two magnetic nozzles attached to a high permeability magnetic core, so the article remains within a magnetic circuit of the magnetic core, the nozzles shaped to direct and position a desired pattern of flux lines for a specific shape of plastic article, and inducing eddy currents in a metal core of the molded plastic article to heat and melt the metal core. 2. The process according to claim 1 wherein the hot liquid bath is maintained at a temperature slightly above melt temperature of the metal core. 3. The process according to claim 1, including the step of controlling the temperature of heating by varying the electrical power and frequency into a heating coil about a portion of a magnetic core loop. 4. The process according to claim 1, including the step of controlling the temperature of heating by changing the magnetic nozzle configuration and the gap between the two nozzles. 