The present invention is drawn to various aspects of automated excision of undesirable material (and optionally excision of bone) from meat, and automated production of starting material for restructured meat, including: (a) an apparatus and method generally drawn to, optical detection of the location of undesirable material in meat, communication of information regarding the location of the undesirable material to a control means, and excision of the undesirable material from the meat using a high pressure water jet controlled by the control means; (b) a bone location sensor and method of bone location sensing, each employing a plurality of needles, and; (c) a multiple blade slicer.
Claims We claim: 1. A method comprising, optically detecting with mechanical optical detection means the location of undesirable material in meat, detecting with mechanical bone detection means the location of bone in meat, said mechanical bone detection means being selected from the group consisting of sonar scanners and textural scanners, communicating information regarding said location of said undesirable material in said meat from said mechanical optical detection means to control means, communicating information regarding the location of said bone in said meat from said bone detection means to said control means, and excising said undesirable material and said bone from said meat with a high pressure water jet controlled by said control means. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said meat is held on a spiked conveyor belt during said detecting and excising steps. 3. The method of claim 2 further including the step of, conveying said meat on said spiked conveyor belt while said spiked conveyor belt turns over, so that said bones drop from said spiked conveyor belt while soft tissue of said meat remains stuck to said spiked conveyor belt. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein subsequent to said excising of undesirable material, said undesirable material and meat are recombined to form restructured meat. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein a plurality of said detecting, communicating and excising steps are performed simultaneously. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said mechanical bone detection means is a sonar scanner. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of detecting the location of bone comprises, providing a plurality of needles, retaining all said needles so that each said needle is individually displaceable along its longitudinal center axis, and detecting whether or not each said needle is displaced along its longitudinal center axis as said needles are inserted into meat. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said needles are arranged side-by-side in a rectangular array. 9. An apparatus comprising, mechanical optical detection means for optical detection of the location of undesirable material in meat, means for producing a high pressure water jet, and control means, operably connected to both said mechanical optical detection means and said means for producing a high pressure water jet, for receiving information regarding said location of said undesirable material in meat from said mechanical optical detection means and for controlling said means for producing a high pressure water jet to excise said undesirable material from said meat, mechanical bone detection means for detecting the location of bone in meat, said mechanical bone detection means being selected from the group consisting of sonar scanners and textural scanners, means, operatively associated with said bone detection means, for communicating information regarding the location of said bone in said meat from said bone detection means to said control means, and said control means functioning to receive information regarding said location of said bone in said meat from said bone detection means and for controlling said means for producing a high pressure water jet to excise said bone from said meat. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 further including a spiked conveyor belt means, operably associated with said detection means and means for producing a high pressure water jet, for holding said meat during detection and excising. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 further including operably associated means for recombining said undesirable material and meat to form restructured meat. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said mechanical bone detection means is a sonar scanner. 13. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said mechanical bone detection means comprises, a plurality of needles, retaining means for retaining all said needles so that each said needle is individually displaceable along its longitudinal center axis, and means operably associated with said needles for detecting whether or not each said needle is displaced along its longitudinal center axis. 14. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said plurality of needles are arranged side-by-side in a rectangular array. 15. The apparatus of claim 9 further including, a multiple blade slicer comprising, a cutting table dimensioned and configured to retain material to be sliced, automatic clamping means, operatively associated with said cutting table, for securely clamping said material to be sliced with automatic adjustment to the shape of said material, while said material to be sliced is retained by said cutting table, slicing means including a plurality of cutting blades for slicing said material to be sliced while said material is retained by said cutting table and clamped by said automatic clamping means, and further including means for conveying material from said multiple blade slicer to said mechanical optical detection means. 