A laser system including beam locating assemblies which bring the beam to two separate welding or cutting locations. A beam director apparatus is provided for receiving and directing the laser beam selectably along a fixed generally horizontal first axis in one of the two directions and a mirror is located for redirecting the beam along a second axis to a welding or cutting head.
Claims I claim: 1. A laser system comprising: laser means providing a laser beam along a fixed generally horizontal first axis; means for redirecting said laser beam to impinge on a workpiece at a desired location thereon and including; means disposed for rotation about and translation along said fixed generally horizontal first axis for redirecting said laser beam along a second axis; laser head means arranged to receive said laser beam along said second axis and to cause it to impinge on said workpiece at said desired location; and means for translating said laser head means along said second axis wherein said translation along said second axis is independent of translation along said first axis. 2. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said means disposed for rotation and translation comprises a single flat mirror. 3. A laser system comprising: laser means providing a laser beam along a fixed generally horizontal first axis; means for redirecting said laser beam to impinge on a workpiece at a desired location thereon and including; means disposed for rotation and translation about said fixed generally horizontal first axis for redirecting said laser beam along a second axis; and laser head means arranged to receive said laser beam along said second axis and to cause it to impinge on said workpiece at said desired location, and wherein said laser means comprise means for receiving said laser beam along a third axis and for redirecting it along said fixed first axis. 4. A laser system according to claim 3 and wherein said means for receiving said laser beam comprises a beam director which directs said laser beam in a selectable one of two directions. 5. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said laser head means comprises a cutting head including two flat mirrors and a concentrating lens. 6. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said laser head means comprises a welding head including a flat mirror and a concentrating mirror. 7. A laser system according to claim 5 and wherein said laser head means includes two mirror elements which rotate about two generally orthogonal axes. 8. A laser system according to claim 6 and wherein said laser head means includes two mirror elements which rotate about two generally orthogonal axes. 9. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein the optical path length along said fixed first axis can greatly exceed the length of the optical path from said fixed first axis to said desired location. 10. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said optical path length from said laser means to said laser head means is considerably longer than the optical path length from said laser head means to said desired location. 11. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said means disposed for rotation and translation comprise an x axis carriage, a y axis arm and a z axis rotation unit. 12. A laser system according to claim 11 and wherein said x axis carriage translates on a fixed linear screw thereby to produce a smooth and rigid motion. 13. A laser system comprising: laser means providing a laser beam along a fixed generally horizontal first axis; means for redirecting said laser beam to impinge on a workpiece at a desired location thereon an including; means disposed for rotation and translation about said fixed generally horizontal first axis for redirecting said laser beam along a second axis; and laser head means arranged to receive said laser beam along said second axis and to cause it to impinge on said workpiece at said desired location, wherein said means disposed for rotation and translation comprise an x axis carriage, a y axis arm and a z axis rotation unit and wherein said y axis arm translates on a fixed linear screw thereby to produce a smooth and rigid motion. 14. A laser system comprising: laser means providing a laser beam along a fixed generally horizontal first axis; means for redirecting said laser beam to impinge on a workpiece at a desired location thereon and including; means disposed for rotation and translation about said fixed generally horizontal first axis for redirecting said laser beam along a second axis; and laser head means arranged to receive said laser beam along said second axis and to cause it to impinge on said workpiece at said desired location, wherein said means disposed for rotation and translation comprise an x axis carriage, a y axis arm and a z axis rotation unit and wherein said z axis rotation unit comprises a linear screw displaced from a center of the z axis rotation thereby to produce a smooth and rigid rotation. 15. A laser system comprising: laser means providing a laser beam along a fixed generally horizontal first axis; means for redirecting said laser beam to impinge on a workpiece at a desired location thereon and including; means disposed for rotation and translation about said fixed generally horizontal first axis for redirecting said laser beam along a second axis; laser head means arranged to receive said laser beam along said second axis and to cause it to impinge on said workpiece at said desired location; and first and second separate means for redirecting, and wherein said laser means comprise a single laser. 16. A laser system comprising: laser means providing a laser beam along a fixed generally horizontal first axis; means for redirecting said laser beam to impinge on a workpiece at a desired location thereon and including; means disposed for rotation and translation about said fixed generally horizontal first axis for redirecting said laser beam along a second axis; laser head means arranged to receive said laser beam along said second axis and to cause it to impinge on said workpiece at said desired location; and first, second, third and fourth separate means for redirecting, wherein said first and second separate means for redirecting are located above said third and fourth means for redirecting, and wherein said laser means comprise a single laser. 17. A laser system according to claim 15 and wherein each separate means for redirecting comprises three mirrors and wherein said laser means comprises a single beam director. 18. A laser system according to claim 16 and wherein each separate means for redirection comprises three mirrors and wherein said laser means comprises three beam directors. 