A fastener clip for positioning in a preformed aperture in a workpiece to receive a threaded fastener comprises a planar head having opposed faces with a threaded opening extending between the faces and a pair of resilient legs joined to opposite ends of the faces. The legs each have a body extending away from the head angularly and terminating in a free end located to engage the shank of the threaded fastener extended through the opening. A pair of resilient tab members are integral with each leg and extend outward of the respective leg in a direction away from the free end to a terminal end bent inwardly of the respective leg toward the head. At least a portion of each tab member extends to a point outwardly of the maximum radial extent of the associated leg at a location adjacent the head with the terminal end having a radial position closer to the opening than the first end of the legs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fastener clip for installation in an aperture in a first workpiece to provide a threaded opening for receiving the shank of an associated elongated threaded fastener; said fastener clip comprising a head portion having a threaded opening to receive the shank of the threaded fastener and a peripheral shape such as to prevent its passage through the aperture in the first workpiece; a pair of spaced resilient legs extending outwardly from one face of said head portion on opposite sides of said threaded opening and terminating in free end portions adapted to engage the threaded fastener when said threaded fastener is installed in said opening; each said leg carrying a pair of resilient elongated tabs which are joined to the respective leg at a location between said head and said free end portions, each tab comprising a first section bent outwardly and extending in a direction away from the free end of the leg portion on which it is carried and a terminal end section which is bent inwardly and extends generally toward said head portion; and each leg further including a short finger bent radially outwardly at a location laterally intermediate the associated pair of tabs and axially between said head portion and said tabs, each said finger extending radially outwardly a distance greater than the width of the workpiece aperture for engaging the walls of the workpiece aperture irrespective of the presence or absence of said threaded fastener in said opening. 2. The fastener clip as defined in claim 1 wherein said pairs of legs are in aligned relationship on opposite sides of the central axis of said opening. 3. The fastener clip as defined in claim 1 wherein said legs are generally straight and join to said head portion at opposite ends thereof. 