The present protective/cooling system includes a housing which contains electronic circuitry and optics for a vision system typically operating in a high temperature, turbulent dust and debris environment. The vision system is located in an inner chamber which is sealed from the surrounding harsh environment. A cooling fluid flows through spiral passages around the inner chamber for drawing heat from the contained vision system. The cooling fluid exits across an optical interface in a spiral flow pattern which enhances both the cleaning ability and the cooling efficiency of the cooling system.
Claims What is claimed is 1. A housing having a sealed inner chamber wherein opto-electronic circuitry is contained and isolated from the outside environment and an optical interface between said inner chamber and the outside environment, said housing comprising: a double walled, cylindrically shaped heat sink attached to said housing and having means forming a plurality of spirally shaped, independent cooling passages within its walls, each spiral passage having an inlet for receiving a cooling fluid and an outlet, said heat sink drawing heat from said housing and transmitting it to said cooling fluid, said cooling fluid flowing through said cooling passages without entering said sealed inner chamber of said housing, said sealed inner chamber thereby retaining a non-turbulent and controlled environment; means for directing said cooling fluid from a source to said inlet of each of said spiral passages; and means for directing said fluid from said outlet of each spiral passage so that it flows across at last one face of said optical interface, said fluid flow cooling said optical interface and preventing particle contamination thereof. 2. The housing according to claim 1 further comprising a hollow cylindrically shaped, optical interface tunnel extending outward from and substantially perpendicular to said optical interface, said outlet of each spiral passage connected to said so that a turbulent flow of said cooling fluid is expelled from said tunnel which prevents flying particle contaminants from reaching said surface of said joptical interface. 3. The housing according to claim 2, wherein said means for directing said fluid from said outlet of each spiral passage further comprises an end plate attached to said heat sink, said end plate having a least one optical interface and a plurality of merging passages, each connected to each outlet of said spiral passages, said merging passages positioned adjacent to said optical interface and in such a manner that said cooling fluid is forced into a spiral flow across the outside surface of said optical interface within said interface tunnel. 4. The housing according to claim 1 wherein said double walled cylindrically shaped heat sink comprises an inner sleeve and an outer sleeve, said inner sleeve has a plurality of spirally shaped grooves disposed along its outside surface and slidably fits into said outer sleeve which covers and isolates each of said spiral grooves and defines said plurality of spirally shaped, independent cooling passages. 5. A housing having an inner chamber wherein opto-electronic circuitry is contained and an optical interface between said inner chamber and the outside environment, said housing comprising; a double walled, cylindrically shaped heat sink attached to said housing and having means forming a plurality of spirally shaped, independent cooling passages within its walls, each spiral passage having an inlet for receiving a cooling fluid and an outlet, said heat sink drawing heat from said housing and transmitting it to said cooling fluid; means for directing said cooling fluid from a source to said inlet of each of said spiral passages; and means for directing said fluid from said outlet of each spiral passage so that it flows across at least one face of said optical interface in a spiral motion, said spiral fluid flow cooling said optical interface and preventing particle contamination thereof. 6. The housing according to claim 5 further comprising a hollow cylindrically shaped, optical interface tunnel extending outward from and substantially perpendicular to said optical interface, said outlet of each spiral passage connected to said tunnel so that a turbulent flow of said cooling fluid is expelled from said tunnel which prevents flying particle contaminants from reaching said surface of said optical interface. 7. The housing according to claim 5 wherein said means for directing said cooling fluid from a source to said inlet comprises an end plate attached to said heat sink and having a central inlet and a plurality of distribution passages which connect to said inlet of each spiral passage and direct said cooling fluid from said central inlet to each spiral passage. 8. The housing according to claim 6, wherein said means for directing said fluid from said outlet of each spiral passage further comprises an end plate attached to said heat sink, said end plate having a least one optical interface and a plurality of merging passages, each connected to each outlet of said spiral passages, said merging passages positioned adjacent to said optical interface and in such a manner that said cooling fluid is forced into a spiral flow across the outside surface of said optical interface within said interface tunnel. 9. The housing according to claim 5 wherein said double walled cylindrically shaped heat sink comprises an inner sleeve and an outer sleeve, said inner sleeve has a plurality of spirally shaped grooves disposed along its outside surface and slidably fits into said outer sleeve which covers and isolates each of said spiral grooves and defines said plurality of spirally shaped, independent cooling passages. 