A method of removing unwanted chemical deposits known as sludge from the metal surfaces of steam generators with laser energy is provided. Laser energy of a certain power density, of a critical wavelength and frequency, is intermittently focused on the sludge deposits to vaporize them so that the surfaces are cleaned without affecting the metal surface (sludge substrate). Fiberoptic tubes are utilized for laser beam transmission and beam direction. Fiberoptics are also utilized to monitor laser operation and sludge removal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of removing sludge from steam generator interior surfaces, comprising the steps of: generating a source of coherent light energy being laser light; accessing the interior surfaces of said steam generator with a fiberoptic transmission pipe; transmitting said laser light into said steam generator sludge surface through said fiberoptic transmission pipe; focusing said laser light from said fiberoptic transmission pipe onto said sludge surface; and vaporizing said sludge with the energy of said focused light. 2. The method of claim 1 also including after the step of vaporizing, the step of removing said vaporized sludge particles with air delivery, circulation and removal apparatus. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said source of coherent light generation steps includes: generating said coherent light by power activating a CO.sub.2 gas laser; and pulsing said power activation of said CO.sub.2 gas laser to produce pulsed laser light. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said pulsing is at a relatively slow pulse rate. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said slow pulse rate pulsing is from about 25 to 100 pulses per second. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said pulsing step operates to generate laser light pulses having a pulse length in the range of about 4 to 10 milliseconds. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said coherent light is in the far infrared range around 10.6 micrometers wave length. 8. The method of claim 3 also including the step of monitoring the laser vaporization with a fiberoptic monitoring system. 9. The method of claim 8 also including controlling the position of said laser light focusing remotely from a control unit and controlling the position of said monitoring fiberoptics remotely from a control unit. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said step of controlling the position of said laser light focusing includes mounting said laser light fiberoptic transmission pipe on a robot device and positioning said robot device with the operation of said control unit. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said step of controlling the position of said monitoring fiberoptics includes positioning said monitor fiberoptics with a second robot device controlled from said control unit. 12. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of focusing said laser light from said fiberoptic transmission pipe onto said sludge surface includes creating a plurality of laser light emission points separated by a distance of about twice the beam width, said emission points being aligned to create a laser light sweep. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein said step of controlling the position of said monitoring fiberoptics includes positioning said monitor fiberoptics with said robot device controlled from said monitoring fiberoptics control unit. 