Apparatus for spray coating a first portion of a workpiece with a coating material while masking a second portion of the workpiece bordering the first portion, so as to preclude coating of the second portion, includes a spray nozzle for spraying the coating material onto the workpiece, apparatus for moving the spray nozzle with respect to the workpiece so as to coat the workpiece along the first portion, and a mask arrangement for preventing sprayed coating material from contacting the workpiece beyond the first portion. The mask arrangement includes a rotatable mask, mounted on the spray nozzle, for translational movement therewith. The rotatable mask has an edge which moves along the workpiece adjacent the border between the first and second portions. The mask arrangement further includes a motor for rotating the mask as the mask moves with the means for spraying, so as to bring clean portions of the mask into proximity with the border. Finally, the mask arrangement includes a blade for continuously cleaning the rotatable mask such that the coating material does not accumulate thereon to produce defects in the coating sprayed on the workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for spray coating a first portion of a workpiece with a coating material while masking a second portion of said workpiece bordering said first portion, so as to preclude coating of said second portion, said apparatus comprising: means for spraying said coating material onto said workpiece, means for moving said means for spraying with respect to said workpiece so as to coat said workpiece along said first portion, and mask means for preventing sprayed coating material from contacting said workpiece beyond said first portion, said mask means including a rotatable mask, mounted on said means for spraying, for translational movement therewith, said rotatable mask having an edge which moves along said workpiece adjacent a border between said first and second portions, means for rotating said mask about an axis generally orthogonal to the direction of said translational movement and generally orthogonal to the principle axis of the sprayed coating material as said mask moves with said means for spraying, so as to bring clean portions of said mask into proximity with said border, and means for continuously cleaning said rotatable mask such that said coating material does not accumulate thereon to produce defects in the coating sprayed on said workpiece, said means for continuously cleaning said rotatable mask including a material removal blade positioned in contact with said rotatable mask on the side thereof adjacent to said means for spraying said coating material, and material receiving means for receiving coating material which is removed from said rotatable mask by said material removal blade. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, in which said means for moving said means for spraying with respect to said workpiece so as to coat said workpiece along said first portion comprises a robotic controlled support arm. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, in which said means for rotating said rotatable mask about an axis generally orthogonal to the direction of said transational movement comprises means for continuously rotating said rotatable mask. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, in which said rotatable mask includes a disk-shaped shield. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, in which said means for spraying said coating material onto said workpiece comprises a first spray nozzle for directing said coating material onto said workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, in which said means for spraying said coating material onto said workpiece further comprises a second spray nozzle for directing said coating material onto said workpiece, simultaneously with said first spray nozzle. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, in which said rotatable mask includes a disk-shaped shield, and in which the principal axis of the sprayed coating material is generally parallel to the plane of said disk-shaped shield. 8. Apparatus for spray coating a first portion of a workpiece with a coating material while masking a second portion of said workpiece, said apparatus comprising: spraying means for spraying said coating material onto said workpiece, means for effecting relative movement between said spraying means and said workpiece while said spraying means is spraying said coating material onto said first portion, and mask means for receiving a portion of the sprayed coating material to prevent said portion of the sprayed coating material from coating said second portion of said workpiece, said mask means including a rotatable mask having an edge positionable at a border between said first and second portions and mounted to remain in substantially constant translational position relative to said spraying means at least while said spraying means is spraying said coating material onto said first portion, means for rotating said mask, at least while said spraying means is spraying said coating material onto said first portion, about an axis generally orthogonal to the direction of said relative movement and generally orthogonal to the principle axis of the sprayed coating material to position clean portions of said edge of said mask progressively along said border, and means for cleaning said rotatable mask while said spraying means is spraying coating material onto said mask means to prevent accumulation of said coating material thereon in an amount sufficient to cause defects in the coating sprayed on said first portion of said workpiece, said means for cleaning said rotatable mask including a material removal blade positioned in contact with said rotatable mask on the side thereof adjacent to said means for spraying said coating material, and material receiving means for receiving coating material which is removed from said rotatable mask by said material removal blade. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, in which said means for effecting relative movement comprises a robotic controlled support arm. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, in which said means for rotating said rotatable mask about an axis generally orthogonal to the direction of said relative movement comprises means for continuously rotating said rotatable mask. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, in which said rotatable mask includes a disk-shaped shield. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, in which said spraying means for spraying said coating material onto said workpiece comprises a first spray nozzle for directing said coating material onto said workpiece. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, in which said spraying means for spraying said coating material onto said workpiece further comprises a second spray nozzle for directing said coating material onto said workpiece, simultaneously with said first spray nozzle. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, in which said rotatable mask includes a disk-shaped shield, and in which the principal axis of the sprayed coating material is generally parallel to the plane of said disk-shaped shield. 