A method of sealing a ceramic lid on a ceramic semiconductor package with a high-power laser beam. As an aid to package assembly prior to the fusion of the package lid to the package body, a lid recess is created around the die installation cavity of the package body. Following the installation of a die within a package cavity, the package body is retrieved from a process tray by a pick and place robot and placed in a position locating fixture. The same robot then retrieves a ceramic lid from an automatic lid dispensing unit, and places it within the lid recess of the package body. With the lid positioned within the recess, a Yttrium-Aluminum-Garnet (YAG) laser with beam splitter optics is moved by an X-Y table arm precisely over the top of the package. Moving with a linear speed of approximately 2.1 cm/sec. and with a power setting of approximately 170 watts, the split beam YAG laser simultaneously fuses a pair of opposite edges of the lid to the adjacent edges of the recess. A second pass with the split beam laser fuses the remaining pair of lid edges to the package body. Total process time for hermetically sealing the lid to the body is less than two seconds. Once the package is sealed, the robot retrieves the part and places it in an output queue.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of sealing the die installation cavity of a ceramic semiconductor package body with a ceramic lid, comprising the following steps: positioning the lid such that it completely covers the die installation cavity; and simultaneously heating portions of the ceramic material around the perimeter of the lid and adjacent portions of the ceramic material of the package body with a beam of coherent light to a temperature sufficient to cause a fusing of the lid and body materials in the region so heated. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the lid is fused around its entire perimeter to the package body. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the beam of coherent light is moved along the lid perimeter at a constant velocity such that heating, liquification, fusing, and solidification of the lid and body ceramic material occurs in linear fashion. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the beam of coherent light is optically split, such that the split portions of the beam can heat and fuse opposite-edge portions of the lid to the package body simultaneously. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the coherent light beam is produced by a Yttrium-Aluminum-Garnet laser. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the heating energy applied at any given point along the lid perimeter by a split portion of the beam is within a range of 50 to 75 watts/mm.sup.2 /sec. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein positioning the lid is accomplished by inserting the lid in a lid recess which is formed in the package body around the die installation cavity. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the upper surface of the lid, when inserted within the lid recess, extends above the upper surface of the package body. 9. A method of sealing the die installation cavity of a ceramic semiconductor package body with a ceramic lid, comprising the following steps: positioning the lid such that it completely covers the die installation cavity; and directing the focus of a pair of coherent light beams to points on opposite edges on the perimeter of the lid; activating said pair of light beams in order to cause the heating past the melting point of the ceramic materials comprising the lid edges and adjacent body portions; simultaneously moving the focal point of both beams along said opposite edges, thus allowing edge and adjacent body portions already heated past the melting point to cool and fuse, while heating additional portions of the edges and adjacent body portions past their melting points; and continuing the movement of both beams until the entire perimeter of the lid is fused to the package body. 10. The process of claim 8, wherein said pair of light beams are generated by the optical splitting of a single beam. 11. The process of claim 9, wherein said single beam is generated by a Yttrium-Aluminum-Garnet laser. 12. The process of claim 10, wherein the heating energy applied at any given point along the lid perimeter by a split portion of the single beam is within a range of 50 to 75 watts/mm.sup.2 /sec. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein positioning the lid is accomplished by inserting the lid in a lid recess which is formed in the package body around the die installation cavity. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the upper surface of the lid, when inserted within the lid recess, extends above the upper surface of the package body. 