A gripper mechanism for sampling nuclear fuel pellets at a predetermined depth in a stack of pellets includes a housing and gripping fingers movably mounted to the housing. The fingers are preferably three relatively thin, arcuate-shaped, blade-like fingers angularly displaced from one another for grasping the pellet at spaced locations about its circumference. The fingers have lower facing surfaces which are brought adjacent to one another for engaging and grasping a pellet when the fingers are moved toward their closed position and retracted remote from one another for disengaging and releasing the pellet when the fingers are moved toward their opened position. Guide members interconnecting the housing with a movable support structure, together with coil springs received about the guide members and extending between the housing and support structure, resiliently and yieldably mount the housing and fingers for movement toward the stack of pellets along a generally linear path ahead of the support structure as the support structure is moved toward the stack. Concurrently the yieldable mounting permits the housing to rock slightly about an axis extending transverse to the linear path for facilitating a burrowing-type movement of the gripping fingers into the stack of pellets to be sampled. Also, a proximity switch detects when the fingers are closed and a load transducer senses when an overload condition has been reached.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of sampling a stack of nuclear fuel pellets at a predetermined depth in the stack, comprising the steps of: (a) locating a plurality of angularly displaced mechanical gripping fingers above the stack; (b) opening lower end portions of said gripping fingers; (c) burrowing said gripping fingers into the stack until said lower end portions thereof are located at the predetermined depth in the stack, said burrowing including (i) lowering said fingers into the stack of pellets toward the predetermined depth therein; and (ii) rotating said fingers in a first direction relative to the stack and at a first predetermined speed concurrently as said fingers are being lowered into the stack; (d) closing said lower end portions of said fingers to grasp a pellet located at the predetermined depth; and (e) withdrawing said fingers upwardly from the stack of pellets. 2. The sampling method as recited in claim 1, wherein said burrowing step further includes: (iii) pausing said lowering of said fingers; and (iv) rotating said fingers in a second direction opposite to said first direction relative to the stack and at a second predetermined speed faster than said first speed concurrently as said fingers are paused. 3. The sampling method as recited in claim 2, wherein said burrowing step still further includes: (v) repeating steps (i) through (iv) until said desired predetermined depth is reached. 4. A method of gently burrowing a plurality of angularly displaced gripping fingers into a stack of nuclear fuel pellets and grasping a pellet located at a predetermined depth in the stack, comprising the steps of: (a) lowering said fingers into the stack of pellets toward the predetermined depth therein; (b) rotating said fingers in a first direction relative to the stack and at a first predetermined speed concurrently as said fingers are being lowered into the stack; (c) pausing said lowering of said fingers; (d) rotating said fingers in a second direction opposite to said first direction relative to the stack and at a second predetermined speed faster than said first speed concurrently as said fingers are paused; (e) repeating steps (a) through (d) until said desired predetermined depth is reached; and (f) closing said fingers upon reaching said predetermined depth to grasp a pellet located at said depth in the stack of pellets. 5. The burrowing method as recited in claim 4, further comprising the step of: during at least one interval when said fingers are paused, rotating said fingers multiple times in opposite directions to stir the stack of pellets so as to facilitate further lowering of said fingers into the stack. 6. A method of gently burrowing a plurality of angularly displaced gripping fingers into a stack of nuclear fuel pellets for grasping a pellet located at a predetermined depth in the stack, comprising the steps of: (a) lowering said fingers into the stack of pellets toward the predetermined depth therein; (b) rotating said fingers in a first direction relative to the stack and at a first predetermined speed concurrently as said fingers are being lowered into the stack; (c) pausing said lowering of said fingers; and (d) rotating said fingers in a second direction opposite to said first direction relative to the stack concurrently as said fingers are paused. 7. The burrowing method as recited in claim 6, further comprising the step of: (e) repeating steps (a) through (d) until said desired predetermined depth is reached. 8. The burrowing method as recited in claim 7, further comprising the step of: during at least one interval when said fingers are paused, rotating said fingers multiple times in opposite directions to stir the stack of pellets so as to facilitate further lowering of said fingers into the stack. 9. The burrowing method as recited in claim 7, wherein said fingers are rotated in said second direction at a second predetermined speed faster than said first speed concurrently a said fingers are paused. 