An adaptive tracking vision and guidance system for use with robot systems includes a structured light vision system and an expert system based look ahead feature tracker. The adaptive tracking vision system may be used to track a feature on which the robot is to operate and to supply guidance information in real time to the robot or to an adaptive stage on the robot arm train. The vision system may be a structured light system capable of scanning a relatively large window, and a control computer. The feature tracker includes an expert system software package and interface packages for the robot controller, host computer, vision camera and operator console. The vision system does an initial search to locate a feature based on a priori knowledge of characteristics of the feature. Then the system tracks the feature by scanning ahead, adaptively planning future scans, predicting the feature path and choosing the data to be used to reduce processing time. The system can supply guidance information to an adaptive stage controlling an end effector tool so that the robot can perform the desired operation precisely on the feature. If the feature is lost while scanning ahead, the vision system does a recovery search to relocate the feature, including switching to alternative mapping systems if necessary. If the feature cannot be recovered a signal is given to the operator.
Claims I claim: 1. A feature-tracking guidance system for a robotic system which includes a platform manipulated under central control of the robotic system, and with an end effector tool for performing a selected work function along a feature on a workpiece, comprising, means for moving the platform through a predetermined path under central control of the robotic system, with the path approximating the actual path taken by the feature on the workpiece, a vision system mounted on the platform ahead of the end effector, with scanning means for scanning a scanning pattern on the workpiece to identify and find the feature on the workpiece and with means for generating a signal representing the position of the feature on the workpiece for a subject location of the vision system, adaptive control means mechanically connecting the end effector tool to the platform, for controlling the position at which the end effector tool acts and for receiving the signal relating to the position of the feature and correcting or adjusting the end effector tool in real time subsequently to act correctly on the feature at said subject location where the signal was generated, so that the tool follows the feature even though the platform path, under central control, deviates from the feature. 2. The guidance system of claim 1, wherein the vision system comprises a 3D, structured light system. 3. The guidance system of claim I, wherein the vision system comprises an adaptive vision system including a 3D structured light system and a gray scale system, and computer means for operating the adaptive vision system to first track a feature by taking data points and using the structured light system, and if the feature is lost and cannot be recovered by structured light analysis, for re-analyzing the data points using the gray scale system to find contrast associated with the feature. 4. The guidance system of claim 3, wherein the vision system further comprises a topology system with means for taking data points on both sides of a probable location of the feature and for analyzing the data points to look for possible intersecting planes where the feature may lie, in the event the feature cannot be found by the structured light system or the gray scale system. 5. The guidance system of claim 1, including computer means associated with the vision system and the adaptive control means, for causing the adaptive control means to adjust the end effector tool to act on the feature at said subject location a preselected elapsed time period after the signal is generated, based on the speed of movement of the platform. 6. The guidance system of claim 1, wherein the vision system includes recovery search means for changing the scan pattern used when the tracked feature is lost, using several additional types of scan patterns to attempt to recover the feature. 7. The guidance system of claim 6, wherein the recovery search means includes adaptive means operable when the feature is lost for finding a feature path ahead of a last known point on the feature while the platform moves ahead at a constant rate based on known points still to be acted on by the end effector tool; and after the feature path is recovered, for taking less data to catch up to a normal operating mode wherein the vision system is a preselected interval ahead of the end effector tool, based on the distance between "null" or "normal" positions of the vision system and end effector and a preselected normal rate of travel of the platform. 8. The guidance system of claim 1, wherein the vision system includes means for determining the position of the feature by coordinates relative to the platform at the time the feature is detected, and wherein the adaptive control means includes means for receiving information from the central robotic system control as to the predetermined path of the platform following the time the feature is detected and for adjusting or transforming said coordinates by the increment of platform position change planned in accordance with the predetermined path between detection of the feature and the action of the end effector tool on the feature. 9. The guidance system of claim 1, wherein the vision system includes computer means with predictive means for predicting a path ahead of detected points on the feature by extrapolation based on recent history of the feature's path, and for opening predictive scan windows for scans just ahead based on a calculated probable feature location. 10. The guidance system of claim 9, wherein the predictiv means further includes means for predicting by extrapolation changes in the character of the feature ahead as might be incapable of detection by the vision system as presently operating, and wherein the vision system includes means for changing to a different scanning mode in response to such predicted changes in the character of the feature. 11. The guidance system of claim 1, wherein the predetermined path and the workpiece feature include portions which do not all lie in a single plane. 12. A component for a robotic system having a central control for controlling the movement of the robot system, said component comprising, a platform under central control of the robotic system, a vision system connected to the platform and having means for scanning a scanning path on a workpiece to determine the position of a feature on the workpiece as the platform advances generally along the feature, and with means for generating a signal representing the position of the feature on the workpiece for a given location of the vision system, adaptive stage means connected to the platform for moving with respect to the platform and including an end effector tool for performing a work function on the workpiece along said feature, generally not on the same path as the platform, and adaptive stage controller means including computer means, for receiving signals from the vision system representing the position of the feature and for accordingly adjusting the adaptive stage means and end effector tool relative to the platform in real time as the platform progresses to correctly perform the work function on the feature, thereby allowing single-pass operation under the central robotic control and avoiding reliance on long-distance repeatability of the robot under central control. 13. The component of claim 12, wherein the central control of the robotic system includes means for storing a predetermined path for the platform generally following the actual path of the feature on the workpiece, and for moving the platform in accordance with the predetermined path. 14. The component of claim 13, wherein the central control includes means for moving the platform at a preselected normal rate of travel on the predetermined path, and with the adaptive stage controller means including means for normally effecting adjustment of the adaptive stage and end effector tool a predetermined elapsed time interval after said signal is generated by the vision system, the time interval normally being the time taken by the platform to move the distance between "null" or "normal" positions of the end effector tool and of the vision system at said normal rate of travel. 15. The component of claim 12, wherein the adaptive stage controller means includes means for receiving signals from the central control relating to the path of the platform, and for adjusting the adaptive stage means and end effector tool based on position of the feature relative to the platform as determined by the vision system adjusted based on position change the platform will undergo on its path from the time the feature position is determined to the time the end effector tool performs the work function at that feature position, regardless of actual position of the platform relative to the workpiece at any given time. 16. A component for a robotic system having a central control for controlling the movement of the robot system, said component comprising, a platform under central control of the robotic system, with means associated with the central control for keeping a record of the position of the platform at a series of points along its path of movement, a vision system connected to the platform and having means for scanning a scanning pattern on a workpiece to determine the position of a feature on the workpiece as the platform advances generally along the feature, and with means for generating a signal representing the position of the feature on the workpiece for a given location of the platform, vision system computer means for controlling the vision system including the scanning means and for storing said signals relating to the location of the feature, and wherein the vision system signal generating means including means for generating a signal that a feature is not found in a particular scan when that is the case, and said vision system computer means including adaptive means for causing the scanning means to try any of several different scanning modes to recover the feature. 17. The robotic system component of claim 16, wherein the scanning means includes means for scanning wide and narrow scan patterns, patterns to left and right, patterns generally at the vision system, ahead of the vision system and behind the vision system as the platform advances and including oblique scan patterns, and wherein the adaptive means includes means for using in succession different such scanning patterns in a recovery mode until the feature is recovered. 18. The robotic system component of claim 17, wherein the adaptive means includes predictive means for predicting the probable position of the feature in the feature's path ahead of the platform, based on determined characteristics of the feature's path behind and at the platform, and for causing the scanning means, when scanning for the feature in said path ahead, to first try scanning a relatively narrow scan pattern or window based on a predicted probable position of the feature. 19. A component for a robotic system having a central control for controlling the movement of the robot system, said component comprising, a platform under central control of the robotic system, with means associated with the central control for keeping a record of the position of the platform at a series of points along its path of movement, a vision system connected to the platform and having means for scanning a scanning pattern on a workpiece to determine the position of a feature on the workpiece as the platform advances generally along the feature, and with means for generating a signal representing the position of the feature on the workpiece for a given location of the platform, and vision system computer means for controlling the vision system including the scanning means and for storing said signals relating to the location of the feature, and the vision system computer means including adaptive means with predictive means for predicting the probable position of the feature in the feature's path ahead of the platform, based on determined characteristics of the feature's path behind and at the platform, and for causing the scanning means, when scanning for the feature in said path ahead, to first try scanning a relatively narrow scan pattern or window based on a predicted probable position of the feature. 20. The robotic system component of claim 19, wherein the adaptive means includes means for causing the scanning means to scan for the feature in a wider pattern if the vision system does not find the feature in said relatively narrow scan pattern or window. 21. The robotic system component of claim 19, wherein the adaptive means includes means for predicting instances of the feature's becoming too narrow to be detected using a scanning mode currently being used, and for causing the scanning means to switch to a different mode with denser data points for portions of the feature where said instances are predicted. 22. A method of tracking a feature on a workpiece for a robotic system, the system including a platform manipulated under central control of the robotic system and an end effector tool supported by the platform for performing a selected work function along the tracked feature on the workpiece, the method comprising: moving the platform through a predetermined path under central control of the robotic system, with the path approximating the actual path taken by the feature on the workpiece, scanning a scan pattern on the workpiece with a computer-controlled vision system mounted on the platform to identify and find the feature on the workpiece and to generate a signal representing the position of the feature on the workpiece for that location of the vision system relative to the location of the platform, receiving the signal representing the position of the feature on the workpiece by an adaptive control system which controls in real time the end effector tool mounted on the platform, controlling the position at which the end effector tool acts, in real time as the platform progresses, by correcting or adjusting the end effector tool subsequently to act correctly on the feature at said location where the signal was generated, with the end effector tool following a path different from that of the platform. 23. The method of claim 22, including the step of performing an initial search for the feature with the vision system in order to locate the feature before the end effector tool is engaged to act on the workpiece. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein the scanning is performed by a vision system capable of generating 3-D ;structured light information, topology, and gray scale information concerning the scanned surface. 25. The method of claim 24, including analyzing data points collected while scanning with the structured light vision system to obtain 3-D information about the workpiece surface, and if the feature is lost and cannot be relocated, re-analyzing the data points to obtain gray scale information about the workpiece surface in order to relocate the feature. 26. The method of claim 25, including re-analyzing the the data points collected while scanning to obtain topology information about the workpiece surface to look for possible intersecting planes where the feature being tracked may lie, in the event that the feature cannot be found by using either 3-D or gray scale information. 27. The method of claim 24, including the steps of predicting with the vision system the probable characteristics of the feature's path ahead of the platform, based on characteristics of the feature determined by prior scans, and analyzing the scan data to obtain the type of information, either 3; -D, topology or gray scale, which is most likely to identify and locate the feature. 28. The method of claim 24, including the step of performing a recovery search with the vision system when the feature is lost, by modifying the scanning pattern and analyzing the data to obtain each of the possible type of information about the scanned surface until the feature is located or until all such analysis is done without locating the feature. 29. The method of claim 22, wherein the step of adjusting the end effector tool involves timing the adjustment to occur a predetermined elapsed time after the signal for the subject position is generated. 30. The method of claim 22, wherein the scanning is done in wide and narrow scan paths, paths to the left and right, paths generally at the vision system, ahead of the vision system and behind the vision system as the platform advances, and including use in succession of different such such scanning paths in a recovery mode until the feature is recovered. 31. The method of claim 30, including the steps of predicting with the vision system and a vision system computer the probable position of the feature in the feature's path ahead of the platform, based on determined characteristics of the feature's path behind and at the platform, and scanning in a relatively narrow predictive scan path or window based on a predicted probable position of the feature. 32. The method of claim 22, including the step of setting the predetermined path of the platform with a lead through teach wherein an operator causes the platform to move generally along the feature's path, keeping the feature within the field of view of the vision system, and the operator also causing the platform to record its coordinates from time to time, the liens between such coordinates being the predetermined path. 33. The method of claim 22, including manually inputting the characteristics of the feature to be tracked to a computer of the vision system. 34. The method of claim 22, including the steps of predicting with the vision system when the feature's path will go beyond the field of view of the vision system if the platform stays on the predetermined path, and sending path correction instruction from the vision system to the central control of the robotic system so that the platform path can be corrected to prevent the feature from leaving the vision system's field of view as the platform moves. 35. The method of claim 22, wherein the step of adjusting the end effector tool to control its position includes using the position of the feature relative to the current position of the platform as the feature is detected, as well as information regarding the predetermined path forward of such current position and the speed of the platform's movement and a preselected elapsed time period form detection of the feature, to automatically circulate and control the end effector tool to act correctly on the feature, said preselected elapsed time period after detection of the feature. 36. A method of adaptively tracking a feature on a workpiece, for a robotic system having a platform which is movable under central control of the robotic system, comprising the steps of: moving the platform along a predetermined path with the central control of the robotic system, the path approximating the actual path f the feature on the workpiece which is being tracked, repeatedly scanning a scan pattern on the workpiece with a vision system mounted on the platform to identify and find the feature on the workpiece, generating with the vision system a signal representing the position of the feature on the workpiece with respect to the position of the platform at the time of the scan, and adaptively varying the position and number of data points of each scan and the frequency of scans with a computerized vision control system based on characteristics of the feature's path determined from prior scans, such that the feature is located with a minimum amount of data and processing time. 37. The method of claim 36, including the step of performing an initial search for the feature with the vision system to locate the feature. 38. The method of claim 36 wherein the scanning is performed by a vision system capable of generating 3-D structured light, topology, and gray scale information concerning the scanned surface. 39. The method of claim 38, including analyzing the data points collected while scanning with the structured light vision system to obtain 3-D information about the workpiece surface, and if the feature is lost and cannot be relovated, re-analyzing the data points to obtain gray scale information about the workpiece surface in order to relocate the feature. 40. The method of claim 39, including re-analyzing the data points collected while scanning to obtain topology information about the workpiece surface to look for possible intersecting planes where the feature being tracked may lie, in the event that the feature cannot be found by using either 3-D or gray scale information. 41. The method of claim 36, including the step of performing a recovery search with the vision system when the feature is lost, by modifying the scanning pattern and analyzing the data to obtain different types of information about the scanned surface until the feature is located or until all such analysis is conducted without locating the feature. 42. The method of claim 41, including the step of generating a fail signal for the operator when the vision system cannot relocate the feature after the recovery search. 43. A method of adaptively tracking a feature on a workpiece, for a robotic system having a platform which is movable under central control of the robotic system, comprising the steps of: moving the platform under direction of the central control of the robotic system, without following any pre-set overall path and without intervantion of a human operator, repeatedly scanning scan patterns on the workpiece with a computerized vision system mounted on the platform to identify and find the feature on the workpiece as the platform progresses, generating with the vision system a signal representing the position of the feature on the workpiece with respect to the position of the platform at the time of each scan, feeding the signal back to the robotic system central control and accordingly adjusting automatically the direction of movement of the platform by the central control in "real time," and recording the actual path of the feature as determined by a series of points on the feature detected by the vision system. 44. The method of claim 43 further including adaptively varying the position and number of data points of each scan and the frequency of scans with the computerized vision system based on characteriustics of the feature's path determined from prior scans, such that the feature is located with a minimum amount of data processing time. 