This invention relates generally to a coupling system for releasably attaching any one of a number of robotically controlled tools (robotic "hands") to a robotically controlled extension arm. The coupling system tightly locks the hand to the robotic arm by combined air and spring pressure such that, even under heavy duty use, the hand will not unintentionally twist or move relative to the arm, yet the hand and arm may be quickly disengaged by release of locking air pressure and imposition of unlocking air pressure which enables ball means to be cammed out of locking engagement.
Claims We claim: 1. A quick change coupling system for robotic attachments, said system comprising: a robotic hand in releasable engagement with a robotic arm, said hand having a retainer pin protruding therefrom, said retainer pin having an annular notch, said pin having an enlarged base movably carried within said robotic hand, resilient mounting means for allowing resilient axial movement of said pin relative to said hand, said resilient mounting means urging said base and said pin in a direction away from said arm when said arm and said hand are engaged; said arm comprising a support for ball means, said support carrying at least one ball along its inner surface; said hand retainer pin releasably engaged with said ball support; restraining means allowing said balls to move into said retainer pin notch when said retainer in is fully inserted into said support; sleeve means slidable along the outside of surface of said ball support, said sleeve means having a forward locked position substantially precluding said ball means from moving away from said notch when said hand is engaged with said arm; and said sleeve means having a rearward position allowing said ball means to move away from said notch. 2. The quick change coupling system of claim 1 wherein said hand comprises gear teeth which releasably engage complementary gear teeth on said arm. 3. The quick change coupling system of claim 2 wherein said notch defines an inclined surface, said inclined surface biasing said ball means away from said notch when a pulling force is placed on said hand relative to said arm. 4. The quick change coupling system of claim 3 wherein said sleeve has a forward inclined portion which gradually restrains said ball means from moving away from said notch as said sleeve is moved forward; and said movement of said sleeve being controlled by fluid pressure. 5. The quick change coupling system of claim 4 wherein said resilient mounting means includes spring means in contact with the base of said retainer pin biasing said hand toward said arm when said arm and said hand are coupled together. 6. The quick change coupling system of claim 5 wherein said arm further defines a compartment enclosing said sleeve, said sleeve carrying a seal and being movable within said compartment; connecting means for applying fluid pressure behind said seal; and connecting means for applying fluid pressure in front of said seal. 7. The quick change coupling system of claim 6 wherein said spring means comprises a bellville spring. 