A method and apparatus for automatically sensing the configuration of a damaged surface area and wherein the apparatus is provided with an arc gouging tool, a welding tool, and a grinding tool to gouge damaged areas and fill them with weld material to at least the surface profile of the surface in the working environment and to grind the filled areas flush with the surface of the working environment. A track is bent to a profile enabling the apparatus to work without any collision with its environment while keeping full access to the work area. The geometry of the track is generally unknown to the control circuit of the robot. A motor-actuated robot member is connected to the track and is displaceable on the track by a motorized element. A working arm is displaceably coupled to the robot member and has one or more working tools connected thereto. A control circuit displaces the robot and operates the working arm and tool. The working arm has a sensor connected thereto with a probe to sense parameters and to feed information data of the X, Y and Z coordinates to the control circuit to determine the geometry of the surface of the working environment and contour of areas in the working environment requiring a work procedure to be effected by the one or more working tools.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for automatically sensing the configuration of a damaged surface area and being provided an arc gouging tool, a welding tool, and a grinding tool whereby to gouge damaged areas and fill same with weld material to at least the surface profile of said surface in said working environment and grinding said filled areas flush with said surface of said working environment, said apparatus comprising a track, bendable to a profile enabling the apparatus to work without any collision with its environment while keeping full access to the work area, the geometry of said track being generally unknown to the control circuit of the robot, a motor-actuated robot member connectible to said track, said robot member having a motorized element provided with track coupling means engaged with said track for displacing said robot member at a predetermined base and position along said track, a working arm displaceably coupled to said robot member, said working arm having one or more working tools connectible thereto, a control circuit associated with said robot member for displacing same and operating said working arm and tool, a sensor connected to said working arm and having a probe to sense a distance which is measured along a normal of said surface or any surface calculated by said control circuit assumed to be representative of said surface in a delineated working environment of said robot member and working arm, said sensory feeding information data of said X and Y and Z coordinates to said control circuit to determined the geometry of the surface of said working environment and contour of areas in said working environment requiring a work procedure to be effected by said one or more working tools. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said working arm is displaceable on said Y axis which is transverse to the X axis of displacement said robot member, said sensor having a detecting point oriented towards said surface to provide information signals in the Z-axis relative to a series of coordinate points about an area requiring work to permit said control circuit using said X, Y, and Z signals to determine the contour and shape of said area requiring work. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said detecting point is a contact probe displaced in contact with said surface to detect the distance between said reference point of said arm and said surface in said delineated working environment, said arm having a displaceable connection to permit said probe to be displaced along said Z-axis, said sensor having a strain gauge to measure said displacement. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said working arm is provided with handle means coupled to a force sensor to permit an operator to displace same to orient said detecting point relative to coordinate points about a selected damaged area in said working environment to establish a polygonal contour of said damaged area and in which to effect a controlled work functions. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said control circuit has a self-teaching programmed function and operates said motorized element to displace said robot member along said track to determine the geometry of said track so that said control circuit may relate a tool end point reference of a working tool to a Cartesian space. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said control circuit has a programming function to determine the trajectory of said tool over said areas requiring work and the number of passes of a working tool in said areas. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein there is provided two or more working tools situated at predetermined locations relative to said robot member, said working tools being automatically selected and engaged by said working arm to effect controlled work functions. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said surface is a curved metal surface portion of a hydraulic turbine runner of a power generating turbine, said track being connected to said surface for in-situ repair of damaged areas or imperfections within said surface portion. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said detecting point is a distance measuring beam to detect the distance between said sensor and said surface in said delineated working environment. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said track extends along a straight axis. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said surface is a metal surface, said track being profiled to a desired shape dependent on the shape of said surface, said track being secured to a track support which is maintained elevated from said surface by adjustable support legs, said support legs being immovably secured to said surface. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said adjustable support legs are pivotally connected to said track support, said legs being adjustable in length to position said track support at a desired height relative to said surface to maintain said working arm parallel thereto. 13. A method of automatically sensing the configuration of a damaged surface area and gouging, welding and grinding it sequentially to clean the damaged irregular area, fill it with weld material and grind it flush with the surface configuration of said delineated environment, said method comprising the steps of: (i) connecting a support track over a section of said surface area, said track having a motor-actuated robot member connecting thereto and equipped with a working arm displaceably coupled therewith, a sensor connected to said working arm, and a control circuit associated with said robot member; (ii) displacing said robot member and working arm along X and Y coordinates respectively to delineate a working environment adjacent said track while sensing the distance between said surface and a reference point of said arm along a Z coordinate and producing information data signals of X, Y and Z coordinates to store signals indicative of the surface configuration of said working environment; (iii) detecting irregular surface areas within said working environment; (iv) determining a series of coordinate points about a selected irregular surface area to permit said control circuit to determine a reference plane-based on three of said pints and to find the projection of all points on this plane to determine the polygonal contour in said plane and store information signals representative thereof; (v) selecting and connecting a tool to said working arm; (vi) effecting a work function with said tool in said polygonal contoured area. 14. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said step (iv) further comprises determining a series of coordinate points inside as well as outside said irregular surface area to permit said control circuit to modelize said irregular surface and find the final profile required after the work function is completed. 15. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein there is further provided the step of positioning two or more tools at predetermined locations with respect to said track, and automatically engaging said tools in a predetermined sequence to effect a series of work functions in said polygonal contoured area. 16. A method as claimed in claim 15 wherein there is further provided the step of self-programming said control circuit to effect said work functions by analyzing said information signals to detect the configuration of said irregular surface areas. 17. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said step (ii) comprises manually applying a sensing probe connected to said sensor in contact with said working environment along said X, Y and Z axes to determine said surface configuration thereof. 18. A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein said step (iii) comprises visually detecting said irregular surface areas. 19. A method as claimed in claim 18 wherein said step (iv) comprises manually displacing said probe to a series of points about one or more irregular areas to feed information signals to said control circuit for automatically delineating a polygonal contour. 20. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said gouging is effected with a tool which is controlled to gouge metal in said polygonal contoured surface, said gouging tool being automatically controlled and terminated when the gauged surface becomes smooth. 21. A method as claimed in claim 20 wherein there is provided the further step of grinding said gouged polygonal area to clean same prior to filling it with weld material and this provided a prepared cavity adequate for welding. 22. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said gouging comprises removing a plurality of successive metal layers while maintaining the gouging tool to workpiece distance substantially constant by means of monitoring the gouging current flowing through an electrode of said tool. 23. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said step of filling said prepared cavity includes applying a plurality of successive coats of weld material in said cavity area and maintaining welding tool to workpiece distance substantially constant by means of monitoring the welding current and voltage. 24. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said grinding step comprises applying a plurality of successive passes of grinding over said weld while maintaining a controlled grinding force by means of monitoring a strain gauge in said sensor. 25. A method of claim 13 wherein there is further provided the step of sensing said surface area of said polygonal damaged area between the steps of gouging, welding and grinding. 26. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said step (i) comprises a track support frame to said surface area and adjusting the elevation thereof and connecting said support track to said support frame. 27. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said steps (ii) and (iii) are effectuated by actuating a motorized element provided with track coupling means and working arm displacement means. 28. A method as claimed in claim 13 wherein said steps (ii) and (vi) are automatically effectuated by said control circuit. 