The present invention relates to an indicator for monitoring the position of a piston rod of a linear actuator utilized in robotic mechanisms. The indicator includes a precision toothed chain which is pulled by an extending piston rod and drawn in by a coil spring to maintain tension in the chain and a non-slipping relation with a sprocket wheel driven by the chain. A shaft encoder mounted on a shaft of the sprocket wheel delivers digitized quantities representative of the degree of rotation of the shaft and sprocket wheel and of the linear position of an actuating, linearly-movable end of the piston rod.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An indicator for monitoring the position of a linear actuator having a relatively stationary cylinder housing and a piston rod with an actuating, linearly-movable end, comprising: (a) a rotatable shaft in a housing, said housing affixed to said stationary cylinder housing with said rotatable shaft positioned transverse to the direction of movement of said linearly-movable end; (b) a toothed sprocket mounted to said shaft; (c) a rotatable means coupled to said rotatable shaft, for generating signals representative of the position of said rotatable shaft; (d) a toothed chain having a first end affixed to said linearly-movable end, and engaged about said toothed sprocket, and having a second end; and (e) tension spring means for applying extensible tension to said toothed chain, said tension spring means having a first end connected to said cylinder housing and a second end connected to said toothed chain second end. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rotatable shaft housing is affixed to said stationary cylinder housing at a point remote from said linearly-movable end. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said tension spring means further comprises a coil spring. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said toothed chain is engaged about said toothed sprocket over a bight of approximately 180.degree.. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said toothed chain is aligned substantially parallel with said piston rod. 