An article of manufacture formed as a protective positioning pallet for holding each of a plurality of articles in accurate spatial position. Also, a method of making such positioning pallet, and a method of using such positioning pallet in a robotics environment is disclosed. The article of manufacture has a rigid exterior skeleton frame defining a cylindrical space, the frame having positioning surfaces outside of said space for accurately orienting said frame, and locator surfaces extending into said cylindrical space for locating parts therein relative to said positioning surfaces; one or more cradles are suspended across the locator surfaces in a predetermined fixed position relative to said frame for snugly holding the parts in part-to-part separation. Impact shielding walls are hung on said skeleton spaced from said cradles.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A protective positioning pallet for holding each of a plurality of parts in an accurate spatial position, comprising: (a) a rigid exterior skeleton frame defining a cylindrical space, said frame having positioning surfaces outside of said space for accurately orienting said frame, and locator surfaces extending into said cylindrical space for locating parts therein; and (b) one or more cradles suspended across said locator surfaces in a predetermined fixed position relative to said frame for snugly holding said parts in part-to-part separations. 2. The pallet as in claim 1, which further comprises impact shielding walls on said skeleton spaced from said cradle. 3. The pallet as in claim 2, in which said shielding walls are spaced inwardly from the periphery of said cylindrical space. 4. The pallet as in claim 1, in which said frame has a flat bed with load bearing posts projecting therefrom, each constituted of hollow tubular elements. 5. The pallet as in claim 1, in which said locator surfaces are on locator posts, said frame and locator posts being comprised of steel, and said cradle and shielding walls being comprised of tough, dimensionally stable plastic. 6. The pallet as in claim 1, in which the positioning surfaces are defined by at least a pair of bushings having an internal cylindrical surface machined and located relative to each other to a tolerance of .+-.0.004 inches and rigidly attached to said base. 7. The pallet apparatus as in claim 4, in which one rigid exterior skeleton frame is stackable upon another by nesting the ends of the load bearing posts within the load bearing posts of the other pallet, the loading forces of the said pallets being maintained independent of the locator posts and cradles suspended therein. 8. The pallet as in claim 1, in which the height to width ratio of said pallet is at least 1:2. 9. A protective positioning pallet for holding each of a plurality of articles in an accurate spatial position, comprising: (a) A load bearing rigid frame and base system to define an internal cylindrical space; (b) locator surfaces recessed within said space and protected from side forces by said frame; (c) a cradle system accurately suspended within such space reference to said locator surfaces and separated from the periphery of such space, said cradle system being comprised of dimensionally stable and tough material that is softer than the parts contained thereby; and (d) an impact shielding wall system hung on the rigid frame to enclose the cylindrical space, such wall system being comprised of a lightweight material that has high strength and high impact toughness resistant to abuse, crushing, and deformation. 10. A method of making a protective positioning pallet, comprising: (a) assembling a rigid frame having a bed with upright posts along the periphery of the bed to define a first interior cylindrical space; (b) machining a plurality of reference surfaces on said frame with sufficient accuracy to define reference coordinates for said interior cylindrical space; (c) stationing locator posts on said frame by mating machined surfaces of rigid locator posts adjacent said frame reference surfaces to obtain an accumulated stack-up of tolerances of about .+-.0.045 inches, said locator posts defining a second interior cylindrical space nested within said first space; (d) suspending part-holding cradles on said locator arms to obtain an interfit therebetween of no greater than 0.045 inches; and (e) hanging shielding walls on said upright posts of said frame to close off said interior cylindrical space. 11. A method of handling parts for precision work, comprising: (a) containerizing said parts within a positioning pallet having a rigid bed with reference locating surfaces, said parts being coordinated to said locating surfaces within an accumulated stack-up of tolerances no greater than .045 inches, said pallet having skids projecting from said bed to function as conveyor locating surfaces; (b) conveying said pallet with said skids aligned with the sides of the conveyor to a predetermined station adjacent an unloading robot; (c) controlling such robot to move to said predetermined station, open said container, and selectively grip one or more exposed portions of said parts in said station; (d) robotically moving said gripped parts from said container to a work station for performing work tasks upon such parts; (e) robotically returning said parts to said container upon completion of said work; and (f) vertically stacking said repacked containers for conveyance, each container separating and isolating the support forces from said parts. 12. The method as in claim 11, in which the pallet is a hybrid of a metal bed and frame within which is nested plastic part cradles in accurate spaced relationship to said frame. 13. The method as in claim 11, in which said bed has separate surfaces for (i) receiving forklift arms, (ii) contacting conveyor rollers, and (iii) contacting platform positioning. 14. The method as in claim 11, in which said robot is programmed to move to a point in space to grip the parts without sensing the position of the parts themselves. 