A base supports a workpiece form-holding means in either a stationary or rotatable manner. A cross-slide and corresponding fiber creel assembly which is affixed to, and depends from, the cross-slide assembly is carried with respect to the workpiece form-holding means by a hanging carriage carried on an overhead support beam. A fiber payout eye is carried on the cross-slide assembly for guiding fiber from the fiber creel assembly to the workpiece form as the carriage and cross-slide are moving.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a fiber placement machine, having: a base; and a workpiece form-holding means on said base for supporting a workpiece form along a substantially horizontal axis: an improved fiber delivery assembly, comprising: a pair of support stanchions affixed to said base; an elongate horizontal support beam; beam ways parallel to said horizontal axis; opposite beam ends supported on said stanchions; a carriage mounted to said beam ways and depending from said beam; carriage ways normal to said horizontal axis; a cross slide assembly mounted to said carriage ways; means for moving said carriage on said beam ways between said stanchions; means for moving said cross slide on said carriage ways; a fiber creel assembly affixed to, and depending from, said cross slide assembly; and fiber payout means, mounted on said cross slide assembly, for guiding fiber from said fiber creel assembly to said workpiece form. 2. The fiber placement machine of claim 1, wherein said fiber payout means includes: a tooling plate; a fiber payout eye mounted to said tooling plate; and an articulatable robotic wrist means for moving said tooling plate in a direction normal to said beam ways and said carriage ways. 3. The fiber placement machine of claim 1, wherein said workpiece form-holding means includes: means for rotatably driving said workpiece form about said horizontal axis. 4. The fiber placement machine of claim 2, wherein said workpiece form-holding means includes: means for rotatably driving said workpiece form about said horizontal axis. 5. The fiber placement machine of claim 1, wherein said cross slide assembly includes: a first end proximal to said workpiece form-holding means, supporting said fiber payout means; a second end distal to said workpiece form-holding means; and a wrist means drive mechanism supported by said second end. 6. The fiber placement machine of claim 2, wherein said cross slide assembly includes: a first end proximal to said workpiece form-holding means, supporting said fiber payout means; a second end distal to said workpiece form-holding means; and a wrist means drive mechanism supported by said second end. 7. The fiber placement machine of claim 1, wherein said cross slide assembly includes: a subslice mounted on said carriage ways; a pivot housing rotatably journalled with said subslide for movement about a horizontal axis; means for securing said payout means to said pivot housing; and actuator means for pivoting said pivot housing with respect to said subslide and providing a vertical component of movement to said payout means. 8. The fiber placement machine of claim 2, wherein said cross slide assembly includes: a subslide mounted on said carriage ways; a pivot housing rotatably journalled with said subslide for movement about a horizontal axis; means for securing said payout means to said pivot housing; and actuator means for pivoting said pivot housing with respect to said subslide and providing a vertical component of movement to said payout means. 