A solder paste applicator for applying solder to a selected area of a printed circuit board on which electronic components are mounted. The applicator includes a housing with a plate mounted in one end. The plate has a pattern of holes through it corresponding to the pattern of solder to be applied to the board. The housing has movable legs mounted to the outer surface for positioning the plate a distance from the surface of the board which corresponds to the thickness of the solder to be applied. The solder is held in a reservoir above the patterned plate. A piston is positioned in the housing and is pushed against the reservoir for dispensing the solder.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for applying solder paste to a surface comprising: a housing having one end, an opposed open end and a side wall joining said one end and said open end; a plate removably positioned in said open end, said plate having a plurality of holes therethrough arranged in a predetermined pattern; a reservoir located in said housing adjacent said plate for holding a solder paste material; leg means slidably secured to said side wall and extending beyond said open end for supporting said housing on the surface, said means being movable in order that said plate is positioned a predetermined distance from the surface which distance is substantially equal to the thickness of the solder paste material to be deposited on the surface; and means located in said one end for dispensing the solder paste material from said reservoir, through said holes and onto the surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said dispensing means includes a piston positioned adjacent said reservoir. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said dispensing means further includes a shaft having one end extending through an opening in said one end of said housing and having another end joined to said piston, and means for moving said shaft and said piston toward said plate in order to apply force to said reservoir. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said shaft is threaded and wherein said opening is bounded by a wall having an inner surface which is threaded for engagement with said shaft. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said dispensing means includes a source of fluid, a tube having a terminal portion joined to said source and an opposed terminal portion extending into said one end of said housing through an opening therein, said source applying force to said piston in order to move said piston against said reservoir. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said fluid is pressurized air. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said fluid is a non-compressible fluid. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said housing has an indentation extending parallel to said open end along at said side wall. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said plate has U-shaped longitudinal edges and wherein said edges engage said indentation when said plate is positioned in said housing. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for removing air bubbles from the solder paste material. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said removing means includes an agitator. 12. A method of applying solder paste to a printed circuit board comprising the steps of: filling a reservoir housed in a chamber with a solder paste; forming a predetermined pattern of holes in a plate; positioning the plate at one end of the chamber adjacent the reservoir; affixing slidable leg means to the chamber for positioning the plate a predetermined distance from a surface of the board during the applying operation; positioning the one end of the chamber on a surface of the board to be soldered; and applying pressure to the paste to force the paste to extrude through the holes and to deposit on the board to a thickness corresponding substantially to the predetermined distance and in the predetermined pattern. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of removing air bubbles from the solder paste after the filling step. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the removing step includes either one of a vacuum desiccating procedure or an ultrasonic agitation procedure. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the removing step includes ultrasonic agitation and vacuum desiccation of the solder paste. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein the applying step includes directing force against a piston which is positioned in the reservoir by rotating a threaded shaft which is joined to said piston. 17. The method of claim 13 wherein the applying step includes directing pressurized fluid against a piston which is situated in the reservoir. 