An apparatus for processing and analyzing blood serum includes an input rack for holding test tubes containing whole blood specimens and separator gel, a centrifuge, an optical sensing unit for receiving centrifuged test tubes and generating output signals indicative of whether the centrifuging was successful and, if it was, the boundary position between the separator gel and the blood serum, and a computer connected to receive and analyze the output signals of the optical sensing unit. An aspirator/dispenser needle unit is positioned above the sensing unit and is capable of lowering a needle, under the control of the computer, to puncture the stopper of a test tube and then withdraw blood serum. The apparatus also includes a cup feeder station for storing and dispensing empty cups for receiving and holding blood serum dispensed from the needle, an noutput rack for holding cups containing blood serum samples along with the corresponding test tubes, a bar code reader for identifying test tubes, and a disposal station for receiving test tubes determined to be defective by the computer. A robotic arm moves the tube from station to station under the control of the computer.
Claims Having thus described my invention, I claim: 1. The method of inspecting centrifuged test tubes containing whole blood and separator wax, that have been centrifuged to produce separation of the blood into red cells and serum, comprising: moving the test tube into an optical sensing unit having at least one light beam extending generally normally to the longitudinal axis of the tube; positioning at least one photosensor in said optical sensing unit to receive the light beam transmitted through the tube; and analyzing electrical signals generated by the photosensor to: (a) evaluate the success of the separation; and (b) determine the position of the boundary surface between the separator wax and the blood serum. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said optical sensing unit includes a vertical cavity adapted to receive said test tube, said at least one photosensor being positioned in said cavity to receive a transmitted portion of said at least one light beam for generating electrical signals proportional to a portion of the beam that is occluded. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of analyzing the electrical signals to evaluate the success of separation comprises detecting the number of separate, longitudinally spaced layers in the centrifuged tube by detecting separate time-spaced regions in the electrical signal. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of determining the boundary position between the separator wax and the serum comprises identifying the longitudinal position of the tube relative to the light beam when the electrical signal changes amplitude as a result of transition of the light beam between the separator wax and the serum. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein said at least one light beam is a pulsed infrared sliver of light extending across a diameter of said cavity. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said optical sensing unit includes a vertical cavity adapted to receive a test tube, said cavity including a vertical array of photosensors disposed on one side of said cavity and a vertical array of corresponding light sources disposed on the opposite side of said cavity, said plurality of light beams extending generally normally to the longitudinal axis of a test tube placed in said optical sensing unit and said matching plurality of photosensors receiving said light beams transmitted through said tube and generating electrical signals proportional to the amplitude of the transmitted beams. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of analyzing the electrical signals to evaluate the success of separation comprises detecting the number of separate, longitudinally spaced layers in the centrifuged tube by detecting differences in the electrical signals generated by said plurality of photosensors. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of determining the boundary position between the separator wax and the serum comprises identifying the position of the tube relative to the location of a photosensor that generates electrical signals indicative of the amplitude of a light beam transmitted through the blood serum. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said at least one light beam is a pulsed infrared light beam. 10. The method of inspecting stopped test tubes containing whole blood and separator wax that have been centrifuged to produce separation of the blood into red cells and serum and removing the serum from those test tubes that have been successfully separated comprising: moving the test tube longitudinally relative to a light beam extending generally normally to the longitudinal axis of the tube; positioning a photosensor to receive the light beam transmitted through the tube; analyzing electrical signals generated by the photosensor during the motion of the tube relative to the light beam to determine the position of the boundary surface between the separator wax and the blood serum; inserting a tubular needle having an opening adjacent its extreme end from the exterior of the tube through the tube stopper until the end of the needle is in proximity to the boundary surface between the separator wax and the blood serum as determined by analyzing the electrical signals generated by the photosensor during the motion of the tube relative to the light beam; and imposing vacuum on the outer end of the tubular needle to draw the serum through the needle and out of the tube. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said at least one light beam is a pulsed infrared light beam. 12. Apparatus for centrifuging whole blood specimens to separate the serum from the red cells, comprising: an input station adapted to receive test tubes each containing a whole blood specimen and separator wax; a centrifuge adapted to rotate the test tubes about an axis inclined with respect to the longitudinal axis of the test tubes so as to separate the whole blood into serum and red cells, separated by a layer of separator wax; an optical inspection station adapted to receive the test tubes longitudinally relative to at least one light beam extending generally normally to the longitudinal axis and including at least one corresponding photosensor to receive the light beam transmitted through the tube and generate electrical signals proportional to the amplitude of the transmitted beam; means for receiving the electrical signals generated by the photosensor(s) and analyzing the electrical signals to: (a) evaluate the success of the separation; and (b) determine the position of the boundary surface between the separator wax and the blood serum along the longitudinal axis of the tube; needle apparatus adapted to be inserted into the tube under control of the electrical signals which determine the position of the boundary surface of the separator wax and the blood's serum so that the free end of the needle is positioned immediately adjacent said boundary surface; suction means for drawing the serum out of the test tube through the needle; means for dispensing serum that was drawn in said needle by said suction means, through and out of said needle; a pair of output stations for receipt of successfully separate test tubes and unsuccessfully separated test tubes; and a robotic arm adapted to remove the test tubes, one at a time, from said input station and move them to the centrifuge, remove the centrifuged test tubes and place them in the optical inspection station, and remove the optically inspected test tubes and place them into either said first or second output station under control of the means for evaluating the electrical signals to determine the success of the separation operation. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 further including a feeder station adapted to receive and dispense empty containers, said containers being adapted to receive and retain blood serum samples that are dispensed from said needle apparatus. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said robotic arm is also adapted to, upon said means for analyzing said electrical signals generated by the photosensor(s) determining that the separation operation was a success, remove an empty container from said feeder station and move it to a position underneath said needle apparatus. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 including dispenser means for dispensing the serum out of said needle into said container held by said robotic arm, and wherein said robotic arm is adapted to move said container holding the blood serum together with said test tube from which the serum was withdrawn to said output station for successfully separated test tubes. 16. The apparatus of claim 12 further including identifier means connected to said means for receiving the photosensor electrical signals and operative to identify test tubes. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein said at least one light beam is a pulsed infrared light beam. 