An arrangement for improved dispensed material bead profile control, in which a viscous material is dispensed in a stream upon a surface. The stream is transported along that surface and forms a bead of the viscous material. The bead is then confined with air streams which also reshape the profile of the bead. The material is dispensed by a nozzle which has at least two orifices in its proximity. One orifice is located at a distance from the nozzle which is greater than for the other orifice. The orifices form air streams under pressure and direct the air streams toward the material stream, as well as toward the bead formed on the surface when the material stream is transported along that surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for obtaining improved dispensed material profile control, comprising: a dispensing nozzle forming a viscous material under pressure into a stream of said material for forming a bead of said material on a surface; at least one first orifice located lateral to said nozzle and forming air under pressure into a first air stream directed toward said material stream; wherein the improvement comprises: at least one second orifice located at a lateral distance greater than said first orifice from said nozzle and forming air under pressure into a second air stream directed toward said bead formed on said surface when said material stream is transported along said surface, said second air stream spreading out said bead of viscous material; said at least one first orifice and said at least one second orifice being positioned behind said dispensing nozzle and symmetrically about a line through and along said material stream of viscous material formed by said dispensing nozzle to selectively deform the cross-section of said bead into a predetermined shape. 2. Apparatus for obtaining improved dispensed material profile control with reduced orientation dependency comprising: a dispensing nozzle forming a viscous material under pressure into a stream of said material for forming a bead of said material on a surface; at least two first orifices located lateral to said nozzle and forming air under pressure into first air streams directed toward said material stream; wherein the improvement comprises: at least two second orifices located at lateral distances greater than said first orifices from said nozzle and forming air under pressure into second air streams directed toward said bead formed on said surface when said material stream is transported along said surface, said second air streams spreading out said bead of viscous material; said at least two first orifices and said at least two second orifices being positioned behind said dispensing nozzle and symmetrically about a line through and along said material stream of viscous material formed by said dispensing nozzle to selectively deform the cross-section of said bead into a predetermined shape. 3. Apparatus as defined in claim 1, including means for controlling said air under pressure separately for each said second orifice. 4. Apparatus as defined in claim 2, including means for controlling said air under pressure separately for each said second orifice. 5. Apparatus as defined in claim 3, wherein said second orifice comprises at least two openings. 6. Apparatus as defined in claim 4, wherein said second orifice comprises at least two openings. 