A gimbal module for installation in a gimbal assembly and for operation by a simple type of robot device for use in a space environment. The module has a stator, which is fixedly connected to a first gimbal, and has a coaxial rotor, which is fixedly connected to a second gimbal. The stator and first gimbal have respectively a stator spline and a gimbal spline for aligning and installing the stator in the first gimbal. The stator has a bearing which rotatably supports the rotor. The first gimbal has a bearing which rotatably supports the second gimbal. The stator and first gimbal have respective connector components. A first force is applied along the gimbal axis on the module for aligning and installing the stator and its connecotr component into the first gimbal and its connector component. The rotor and the second gimbal have respective rotor connector components. The rotor has a cam subassembly which is actuated by the robot device for applying a second force urging the connector component of the second gimbal into the connector component on the rotor.
Claims The embodiments of an invention in which an exclusive property or right is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A gimbal module for installation in a gimbal assembly having a first gimbal and having a second gimbal angularly displaceable about a common gimbal axis relative to the first gimbal comprising: a stator with a stator axis for alignment with the gimbal axis; a rotor with a rotor axis disposed coaxial with the stator axis; a first connector having a first component mounted on the stator and having a second component mounted on the first gimbal; spline means for aligning the stator axis with the gimbal axis and for connecting the first component to the second component; a second connector having a third component mounted on the rotor and having a fourth component mounted on the second gimbal; and actuator means for connecting the third component to the fourth component. 2. The gimbal module of claim 1, wherein the actuator means comprises: a rotary drive member for rotation by a robotic device and having a pinion gear; a ring gear rotatable about the rotor axis relative to the rotor and having internal gear teeth engaging the pinion gear and having a cam roller; a cam ring axially displaceable along the rotor axis having a cam slot receiving the cam roller; said cam ring having a portion supporting the third component for connection of the third component to the fourth component by rotation of the rotary drive member. 3. The gimbal module of claim 2, wherein the spline includes: a first spline mounted on the stator at a selected angular position; a second spline mounted on the first gimbal at a selected angular position for angular orientation of the stator relative to the first gimbal during assembly thereof. 4. The gimbal module of claim 3, wherein the spline means includes: a third spline mounted on the first gimbal for engagement of the second and third splines with the first spline; a preload spring mounted on the third spline and attached to the second spline for causing compression forces in the second and third splines after engagement with the first spline. 5. The gimbal module of claim 4, wherein the first gimbal has bearing means supporting the second gimbal for angular displacement of the second gimbal relative to the first gimbal; the first gimbal having a first adapter plate supporting the stator; and the second gimbal having a second adapter plate supporting the rotor; 6. The gimbal module of claim 5, wherein the second adapter plate has a plurality of lock pins; the rotor has a portion having a plurality of oversize holes fitting over the respective pins; and the rotor has a lock plate having a plurality of slotted holes fitting over the respective pins, the lock plate being disposed over the rotor portion for locking the rotor to the second adapter plate. 7. A robotic actuated engagement device comprising: an electro-mechanical module which consists of rotor and stator drive and sense components; means of holding and transporting the module to engagement with a pair of gimbals; means of alignment and engagement of the rotor and stator with said gimbals; and means of axially inserting the module rotor and stator in proper orientation with the gimbals with relatively high and reactionless axial force. 8. An engagement device as recited in claim 7 further comprising: means of extracting the module from the gimbal pair with near zero axial reaction force. 9. An engagement device as recited in claim 7 further comprising: means of aligning and connecting electrical connector components on both the rotor and stator of the module to the gimbal pair. 10. An engagement device as recited in claim 7 further comprising: means of aligning and connecting mechanical components for connecting fiber optic connectors and fluid lines for the transfer of energy through an interface of the module and gimbal pair. 11. An engagement device as recited in claim 7 further comprising: means of effecting a zero backlash angular drive between the module rotor and stator and the gimbal pair. 12. A process for assembling a module with a module axis and with a stator with a stator connector component and a rotor with a rotor connector component into a gimbal assembly having a first gimbal with a first connector component and having a second gimbal with a second connector component and having a common gimbal axis, including the steps of: aligning the module axis with the gimbal axis; applying a first force parallel to the module axis urging the stator and the stator connector component respectively into engagement with the first gimbal and the first connector component; and applying a second force parallel to the module axis in a direction opposite to the direction of the first force urging the second connector component into engagement with the rotor connector component. 