An electrical socket for TAB ICs. More particularly, the socket includes a flexible etched film having an array of traces thereon, a base on which the film is positioned to receive a TAB IC thereover and a cover having a pressure plate for biasing the IC against the film to provide an electrical connection between respective traces on the IC and on the film.
Claims What we claim is: 1. An electrical socket for sue with TAB ICs comprising a base having a first surface including a raised platform for receiving a flexible film; grooves provided in said platform with resilient pads disposed therein; a flexible film having an array of conductive traces thereon, said traces including inner ends arranged in a predetermined pattern around a central portion of said film and outer ends at or near respective edges of said film, said film being mounted on said first surface of said base; and a cover hingedly mounted to said base and having a pressure plate movably mounted on a surface of said cover facing said first surface of said base and biased outwardly therefrom for biasing a TAB IC carrier assembly which may be placed in said socket against said film. 2. The socket of claim 1 wherein said resilient pads are under said inner ends of said traces. 3. The socket of claim 1 wherein said outer ends of said traces are located on said first surface but not on said platform. 4. The socket of claim 1 further including means for terminating said outer ends of said traces to electrical components. 5. The socket of claim 4 wherein said electrical components include a circuit board on which said socket may be mounted. 6. The socket of claim 1 further including cooperating latch means on said base and said cover for releasably latching said base and cover together. 7. The socket of claim 6 wherein said latch means may be robotically operated. 8. The socket of claim 1 further including registration means in said film and said platform for receiving fiduciary pins projecting outwardly form a TAB IC carrier assembly which may be placed in said socket. 9. The socket of claim 8 wherein said registration means include oval shaped holes with a major axis being at an oblique angle relative to a given side of said first surface. 10. The socket of claim 9 wherein said oblique angle includes an angle of forty five degrees. 