Method and apparatus for the manufacture of a friction clutch plate. First and second friction components are placed on first and second jig means, a bead of adhesive elastomeric material is deposited on the first friction component and a metal carrier plate is placed on top of the bead. A bead of adhesive elastomeric material is deposited on the second friction component and the latter is placed on to the metal carrier plate with the face of the friction component on which the bead was deposited being against the metal carrier plate. The two friction components and the carrier plate are held together for a time such that the assembly is handleable. One jig means can be adapted to receive and locate a friction component on one face and a metal carrier plate on a second face, and robot means can be used for depositing the beads of adhesive elastomeric material.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for the manufacture of a friction clutch plate which comprises the steps of placing first and second friction components in first and second jig means respectively, depositing a bead of adhesive elastomeric material on the upper face of the first friction component, placing a metal carrier plate on top of the deposited bead, depositing a bead of adhesive elastomeric material on one face of the second friction component, placing the face of the second friction component having the elastomeric bead on top of the metal carrier plate and holding the two friction components and metal carrier plate together for a desired time period such that the assembled clutch plate is handleable prior to curing the elastomeric material. 2. A method according to claim 1 in which the first and second friction components are annular clutch facings and are initially held in said first and second jig means one above the other, coaxial but spacially separated to allow said bead to be applied to the lower facing, the bead is applied to the lower facing, the carrier plate is placed on to it, again coaxial with the lower facing, the bead is applied to the upper facing and the latter is then inverted whilst held by its jig means and lowered onto the carrier plate. 3. A method according to claim 1 in which the assembled clutch plate is held together in the jig means in which the friction components are initially placed. 4. A method according to claim 3 in which the friction components and the carrier plate are held together so as to ensure contact between the carrier plate and the adhesive bead on each friction component, but under a pressure which is insufficient to squeeze the adhesive out of the form of a bead in order that air passages remain between the friction components and the carrier plate. 5. Apparatus for the manufacture of a clutch plate by the method of claim 1 said apparatus comprising first jig means mounted on a base to receive and centrally locate a first friction component, second jig means vertically above the first jig means, said second jig means being movable in the vertical direction and rotatable about an axis transverse to the vertical axis, said second jig means being adapted for receiving and locating a second friction component on a first face of said second jig means and for receiving a metal carrier plate on a second face of said second jig means, automated handling means adapted for placing first and second friction components and said carrier plate on said first and second jig means, adhesive depositing means adapted to deposit a bead of adhesive elastomeric material on one face of each of said first and said second friction components, said jigs being adapted to move sequentially to position said metal carrier plate between the faces of the friction components having said elastomeric beads and further adapted to hold said assembled components together for predetermined time. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5 in which the first jig means is provided with centering means to locate an annular clutch facing and vacuum holding means to hold said facing in position on the jig means. 7. Apparatus according to claim 5 in which the second jig means is provided on said first face with centering means to locate an annular clutch facing, and vacuum holding means to hold said facing in position, and is provided on said second face with centering means to locate a metal carrier plate and electromagnets to hold said plate in position. 8. Apparatus according to claim 5 in which said first and second jig means are provided with co-operating centering means which interact as the two jigs are moved into close proximity with each other to ensure that the jigs are aligned in a desired manner 9. Apparatus according to claim 8 in which the co-operating centering means comprise a recess in the first jig means, and a spigot on each face of the second jig means which will locate in said recess as the jigs are moved into close proximity whichever face of said second jig means is being presented to said first jig means. 10. Apparatus according to claims 5 in which the adhesive depositing means comprises a robotic arm carrying one or more nozzles for laying the bead 