Controllable electrorheological fluid composite structure elements incorporate electrorheological fluids as a structural component between opposing fluid containment layers to form at least a portion of any variety of extended mechanical systems such as plates, panels, beams and bars or structures including these elements. The electrorheological fluid is operatively contained in a region between the containment layers and has complex shear and tensile modulus properties which vary with the electric field applied thereto. A variable power source is utilized to create an electric potential between the layers of the structure element to create the electric field. An alternative power source may include the use of a piezoelectric material layer. In order to maintain the insulation and spacing between the containment layers, a fabric or separating layer having an open mesh is provided which permits the transportation of electrorheological fluid in the region between the layers. Multiple layers and regions are contemplated including orientation orthogonally to the long axis of the structure to take advantage of the elongational modulus of the fluid. The composite structures of the present invention may be incorporated in a wide variety of mechanical systems for control of vibration and other properties.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flexible, laminar beam or panel for carrying lateral loads and bending movements comprising at least two flexible, electrically conductive containment layers configured in a parallel, spaced relationship and defining therebetween an enclosed space, an electrorheological fluid confined within said space, and an electric field generating means connected to each of said layers for applying a voltage potential between said layers thereby producing an electric field across said fluid, wherein the magnitude of said voltage potential is selected for determining the complex moduli of said fluid and the complex stiffness characteristics of said beam or panel. 2. The beam or panel according to claim 1 wherein a plurality of said containment layers are configured in series normal to the plane of said beam or panel. 3. The beam or panel according to claim 1 wherein a plurality of said containment layers are configured in an overlying relation to provide for separately controllable lamina of said beam or panel. 4. The beam or panel according to claim 1 wherein a plurality of said containment layers are configured in a contiguous relation to provide for separately controllable areas of said beam or panel. 5. The beam or panel according to claim 1 further comprising a porous layer disposed within said enclosed space for preventing contact of said electrically conductive layers with each other. 6. The beam or panel according to claim 5 wherein said beam or panel comprises a portion of a flexible gripping element. 7. The beam or panel according to claim 1 wherein said electric field generating means comprises a piezoelectric polymer layer electrically connected to said containment layers. 8. The beam or panel according to claim 1 wherein said beam or panel comprises a portion of an articulating robot arm. 9. The beam or panel according to claim 1 wherein said beam or panel comprises a portion of an aircraft fuselage. 10. The beam or panel according to claim 1 wherein said beam or panel comprises a portion of an aircraft wing. 11. A method for controlling the vibration characteristics of a laminar beam comprising the steps of providing at least two spaced, parallel flexible containment layers of conductive material for forming the upper and lower surfaces of said beam, enclosing an electrorheological fluid within said space between said layers, applying a voltage potential between said layers for producing an electric field across said fluid to select the complex moduli thereof, and varying the magnitude of said voltage potential to vary the complex stiffness characteristics of said beam. 12. The method according to claim 11 further comprising the step of providing said containment layers in series and oriented normal to the plane of said beam or panel. 13. A method for controlling the mechanical behavioral characteristics of laminated composite structures, comprising the steps of providing elastic containment layers of selected tensile modulus, thickness and distance therebetween to form at least a portion of said composite structure, enclosing an electrorheological fluid in one or more regions between said containment layers, selecting the overall loss factor and flexural rigidity of said structure by adjusting the complex shear modulus of said electrorheological fluid responsive to a variable electric field applied across said one or more regions, wherein the overall loss factor is determined by the expression ##EQU11## where .eta..sub.2 is equal to the imaginary portion of the complex shear modulus of said fluid divided by the real portion thereof, Y is the stiffness parameter, and X is the shear parameter. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein: the shear parameter X is described by the expression ##EQU12## where G.sub.2 ' is the real part of the complex shear modulus of the ER fluid filled regions; p is the wave number, H.sub.1 is the thickness of one of said containment layers, and H.sub.2 is the thickness of the other of said containment layers, and E.sub.1 is the tensile modulus of said containment layers. 15. The method according to claim 13 wherein: the flexural rigidity B of the composite structure is determined by the expression ##EQU13## where B.sub.1 and B.sub.3 are the flexural rigidities of the elastic layers alone, X is a complex shear parameter, and Y is a stiffness parameter. 16. A method for controlling the mechanical behavioral characteristics of laminated composite structures, comprising the steps of providing elastic containment layers of selected tensile modulus, thickness and distance therebetween to form at least a portion of the composite structure, enclosing an electrorheological fluid in one or more regions between said containment layers, and selecting the overall loss factor and flexural rigidity of the composite structure by adjustment of the complex elongational modulus of said electrorheological fluid responsive to a variable electric field applied across said one or more regions, wherein the overall loss factor .eta. of a simply supported laminated structure having said containment layers in series on either side of an elastic layer is determined by the expression ##EQU14## where, .eta..sub.2e is equal to the imaginary component of the complex tensile modulus E.sub.2 " divided by the real portion E.sub.2 ' thereof for said fluid, E.sub.1 is the tensile modulus of the elastic material, H.sub.1 is the thickness of the regions, and H.sub.12 is the distance between the midplanes of adjacent layers. 17. The method according to claim 16 wherein: the overall complex flexural rigidity B of a simply supported laminated structure having said containment layers in series on either side of an elastic layer can be determined by the expression ##EQU15## where E.sub.1 is the tensilemodulus of the elastic layer, E.sub.2 ' is the real component of the complex tensile modulus of the ER fluid, H.sub.1 is the thickness of the elastic material layer, H.sub.2 is the thickness of the regions, and n.sub.xy and n.sub.yx are the two principle Poisson's ratios of the material layers in the x-y plane. 18. Apparatus for gripping objects comprising a base, at least two flexible, electrically conductive containment layers configured in a parallel, spaced relationship, and defining therebetween an enclosed space, wherein said layers are attached at a portion of the periphery thereof to said base, an electrorheological fluid confined within said space, and an electric field generating means connected to each of said layers for selectively immobilizing said fluid and said layers in a fixed position about said object. 