A robotic vision, optical correlation system which optically compares an input image with optical information stored in a multiple array of matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image. The input image is incident upon a spatial light modulator, and the input image spatially modulates a coherent beam of radiation. A multiple holographic lens has the spatially modulated radiation beam incident thereon, and performs a multiple number of Fourier transformations thereon to obtain an array of a multiple set of Fourier transforms of the spatially modulated radiation beam. The array of matched filters has the array of Fourier transforms incident thereon, and each matched filter comprises a Fourier transform hologram of an aspect view of an object of interest. Each matched filter passes an optical correlation signal in dependence upon the degree of correlation of the Fourier transform of the spatially modulated radiation beam with the Fourier transform recorded by the matched filter. An inverse Fourier transform lens receives the optical correlation outputs of the array of matched filters, and performs an inverse Fourier transformation on each optical correlation output. A detector then detects the inverse Fourier transform of each optical correlation output, and produces a detector output signal representative thereof. A processing circuit compares the relative magnitudes of the signals to determine aspect information about the input image. The present invention includes a normalizing means for each matched filter channel in the system, which can be electronic or optical, to normalize the signals for the different matched filters. The normalizing means operates on the basis of a separate angular response curve which is generated for each matched filter.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, comprising: a. a spatial light modulator, having incident thereon an input image to be analyzed, which spatially modulates a coherent beam of radiation to form a spatially modulated radiation beam; b. a multiple holographic lens having the spatially modulated radiation beam incident thereon, for performing a multiple number of Fourier transformations thereon to obtain an array of a multiple set of Fourier transforms of the spatially modulated radiation beam; c. an array of matched filters having the array of Fourier transforms incident thereon, with each matched filter comprising a Fourier transform hologram of an aspect view of an object of interest and passing an optical correlation signal in its matched filter channel in dependence upon the degree of correlation of the Fourier transform of the spatially modulated radiation beam with the Fourier transform recorded by the matched filter; d. an inverse Fourier transform lens means, receiving the optical correlation outputs of said array of matched filters, for performing an inverse Fourier transformation on each optical correlation output; e. a detector means for detecting the inverse Fourier transform of each optical correlation output, and for producing a detector output signal representative of each optical correlation output; .f a normalizing means for each matched filter channel for producing a normalized detector output signal therefrom; and g. comparator means for comparing the magnitudes of the normalized detector output signals to generate output directional control signals therefrom, as determined by the aspect information about the input image. 2. A system for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a. said array of matched filters including at least a center matched filter for a center on-line view of an object of interest, a left matched filter for a left of center angular view of the same object of interest, and a right matched filter for a right of center angular view of the same object of interest; b. said detector means including at least a center detector for said center matched filter, a left detector for said left matched filter, and a right detector for said right matched filter; c. said comparator means including at least a left comparator means for comparing the magnitude of the left detector output signal with the magnitude of the center detector output signal to determine which magnitude is greater, and a right comparator means for comparing the magnitude of the right detector output signal with the magnitude of the center detector output signal to determine which magnitude is greater; and d. directional means, receiving the outputs of said left comparator means and said right comparator means, for generating an output directional control signal representative of the determined angular position of the object of interest. 3. A system for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 1, said normalizing means including a normalizing amplifier circuit for each detector output signal for producing a normalized detector output signal. 4. A system for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 1, said normalizing means including an optical normalizer in each matched filter channel. 5. A system for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 1, further including a processor means, coupled to receive the detector output signals from said detector means, for comparing the relative magnitudes of the signals to determine aspect information about the input image, said processor means further including a normalizing circuit for each detector output signal, an analog to digital converter for converting each normalized detector output signal to a corresponding digital signal, and comparator circuit means for comparing the magnitudes of the corresponding digital signals. 6. A system for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 1, said normalization means including developing an angular response curve for each individual matched filter, and setting the maximum amplitude signals for all of the angular response curves to be substantially equal to normalize the angular response curves, determining the angular field of view for each normalized angular response curve, and determining the number of matched filters required to yield a desired overall angular detection response. 7. A method for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, comprising: a. directing an input image to be analyzed onto a spatial light modulator to spatially modulate a coherent beam of radiation to form a spatially modulated radiation beam; b. directing the spatially modulated radiation beam onto a multiple holographic lens to perform a multiple number of Fourier transformations thereon to obtain an array of a multiple set of Fourier transforms of the spatially modulated radiation beam; c. directing the array of Fourier transforms onto an array of matched filters, with each matched filter comprising a Fourier transform hologram of an aspect view of an object of interest and passing an optical correlation signal in its matched filter channel in dependence upon the degree of correlation of the Fourier transform of the spatially modulated radiation beam with the Fourier transform recorded by the matched filter; d. directing the optical correlation outputs of said array of matched filters onto an inverse Fourier transform lens means to perform an inverse Fourier transformation on each optical correlation output; e. detecting the inverse Fourier transform of each optical correlation output and producing a detector output signal representative of each optical correlation output; f. normalizing the signal through each matched filter channel to produce a normalized detector output signal therefrom, said normalizing step including developing an individual angular response curve for each matched filter, with each individual angular response curve having an individual peak amplitude and an individual angular range, and normalizing the signal through each matched filter channel to equalize the peak amplitudes of all of the matched filter channels, which can result in different angular ranges for each matched filter channel; g. comparing the magnitudes of the normalized detector output signals to generate output directional control signals therefrom, as determined by the aspect information about the input image. 8. A method for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 7, further comprising: a. said step of directing the array of Fourier transforms onto an array of matched filters including directing the array of Fourier transforms onto at least a center matched filter for a center on-line view of an object of interest, a left matched filter for a left of center angular view of the same object of interest, and a right matched filter for a right of center angular view of the same object of interest; b. detecting the inverse Fourier transforms with at least a center detector for said center matched filter, a left detector for said left matched filter, and a right detector for said right matched filter; c. comparing the magnitudes of the normalized detector output signals by at least a left comparator means for comparing the magnitude of the left detector output signal with the magnitude of the center detector output signal to determine which magnitude is greater, and a right comparator means for comparing the magnitude of the right detector output signal with the magnitude of the center detector output signal to determine which magnitude is greater; and d. utilizing the outputs of said left comparator means and said right comparator means to generate an output directional control signal representative of the determined angular position of the object of interest. 9. A method for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 7, said normalizing step being performed by a normalizing amplifier circuit for each detector output signal for producing a normalized detector output signal, including storing in memory an amplification factor for each normalizing amplifier circuit to achieve normalized detector output signals for all of the matched filter channels. 10. A method for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 7, said normalizing step being performed by an optical normalization in each matched filter channel. 11. A method for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 10, said normalizing step being performed by an optical attenuating filter in each matched filter channel. 12. A method for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 11, said normalizing step being performed by a rotatable polarization attenuating filter in each matched filter channel, wherein the rotatable polarization filter is selectively rotated for each matched filter channel to achieve normalization for all of the matched filter channels. 13. A method for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 10, said normalizing step being performed by controlling the power to a laser illuminating each matched filter channel. 14. A method for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 7, further including comparing the relative magnitudes of the detector output signals to determine aspect information about the input image, providing a normalizing circuit for each detector output signal, an analog to digital converter for converting each normalized detector output signal to a corresponding digital signal, and comparator circuit means for comparing the magnitudes of the corresponding digital signals. 15. A method for optically comparing an input image with optical information stored in matched filters to provide identification and aspect information about the input image, as claimed in claim 7, further comprising, after setting the peak amplitude signals for all of the angular response curves to be substantially equal to normalize the angular response curves, determining the angular field of view for each normalized angular response curve, and determining the number of matched filters required to yield a desired overall angular detection response. 