A robotic feeding mechanism for feeding electrical connectors. Connector magazines having a plurality of electrical connectors therein can be held in a magazine feeder which comprises at least two worm gears for holding and moving connector magazines therebetween. The magazine feeder also comprises gates for holding a connector magazine received from the worm gears for dispensing individual connectors and means for operably moving the worm gears and gates for controllably advancing connector magazines towards the gates and moving the gates to replace an empty magazine with a new magazine. The feeding mechanism also comprises a device for feeding and inverting individual electrical connectors comprising a sloped feed path; a gate for holding a row of connectors; means for holding the row of connectors while a leading connector is allowed to advance along the feed path; and a tipping ledge and curved guide for inverting the lead connector as it advanced along the feed path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrical connector magazine feeder for feeding magazines have electrical connectors therein, the feeder comprising: worm gear means comprising at least two worm gears for holding and moving connector magazines therebetween, each worm gear comprising a center shaft and at least one helical flight extending therefrom; means for holding a connector magazine received from said worm gear means for dispensing of individual connectors, said holding means comprising a gate means have a plate positioned under said flights of each of said worm flights and being mounted for lateral movement relative to a central feeding axis formed between said worm gears, each of said plates comprising a center aperture for passage of a portion of one of said center shafts therethrough and for operably receiving a keying portion from one of said worm gears, said keying portions and said center apertures cooperating to move said plates as said worm gears are rotated, said gate means having a first position for holding a connector magazine and a second position for allowing an empty connector magazine to be ejected from said holding means; and means for operably moving said at least two worm gears and said gate means such that said worm gears can support connector magazines individually and can controllably advance connector magazines towards said holding means, and said gate means can be moved from said first position to said second position and back to said first position to allow an empty connector magazine to be ejected from said holding means for replacement with a new connector magazine from said worm gear means. 2. A feeder as in claim 1 wherein said worm gear means comprises two pairs of worm gears. 3. A feeder as in claim 1 wherein said moving means comprises a key means operably connecting said worm gears with said gate means for unison movement therebetween. 4. A feeder as in claim 1 wherein said helical flights are suitably sized and shaped to receive side ledges of connector magazines. 5. A feeder as in claim 1 wherein said moving means comprises means for rotating said worm gears in unison. 6. A feeder as in claim 1 wherein said worm gear means can support a plurality of connector magazines individually in a relatively vertical column along said worm gears with said flights preventing weight from upper connector magazines in the column from damaging connector magazines at the bottom of the column. 7. A feeder as in claim 1 wherein said worm gear means comprises means for loading new connector magazines into said worm gears such that a plurality of new connector magazines can be stacked on top of said worm gears and fed into said worm gears as empty connector magazines are ejected from the feeder. 8. A feeder as in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing the absence of connectors in a connector magazine at said holding means. 9. A feeder as in claim 8 wherein said sensor means is operably connected to said moving means such that said sensor means can signal said moving means to eject an empty connector magazine and position a new magazine into said holding means when said sensor means senses the absence of connectors. 10. A feeder as in claim 1 wherein said at least two worm gears are movable relative to each other such that the feeder can be used with different size connector magazines. 11. An electrical connector dispensing apparatus for dispensing electrical connectors from connector magazines comprising: an electrical connector magazine feeder as in claim 1; and means for individually feeding connectors from a magazine at a dispensing position to a work station, said connector feeding means having means for inverting each connector as each connector is being fed including a connector feed path having a curved guide portion for reorienting a connector along said curved portion. 12. An apparatus as in claim 11 wherein said magazine feeding means comprises at least two worm gear feeding mechanisms having flights for supporting connector magazine thereon. 13. An apparatus as in claim 11 wherein said connector feeding means also comprises a tipping means for tipping a connector onto its side and onto said curved guide portion. 14. An apparatus as in claim 11 wherein said connector feeding means comprises: second gate means for holding row of connectors with a first connector in a first position and a second connector in a second position, said second gate means having an open position and a closed position, said open position allowing a first connector to move downward along said feed path from said second gate means; holding means for holding a second connector at said second position to prevent movement therefrom while said second gate means is open; and means downward from said second gate means for inverting a connector comprising a tipping means to tip a connector onto its side and a curved guide means forming a portion of said feed path for further turning a connector as it advances along the curved guide means whereby a single connector can be fed from said row and individually inverted along said curved guide means. 15. An apparatus as in claim 14 wherein said connector feed path is sufficiently sloped to allow a first connector to gravity slide along said feed path between said first position and said tipping means. 16. An apparatus as in claim 15 wherein said tipping means comprises an extending ledge such that when a first connector slides to said tipping means inertia, gravity and balance cause a first connector to topple onto said ledge. 17. An apparatus as in claim 14 wherein said feed path can feed connectors in an upside-down orientation to prevent damage to solder tails on connectors and can invert connectors without substantial risk of damage to solder rails without the use of moving parts along the feed path. 18. An apparatus as in claim 14 wherein said curved guide means terminates with connectors in a rightside-up position in a laterally extending conveyor for conveying connectors to a work station. 19. An apparatus as in claim 18 wherein a plurality of feeding and inverting devices can be placed in side-to-side orientation with a plurality of corresponding lateral conveyors in side-to-side orientation to convey a plurality of connectors to a work station at substantially the same time in a relatively minimum amount of space. 20. A feeder as in claim 6 wherein said worm gear means can support connector magazines in a substantially angled orientation. 21. A feeder as in claim 20 wherein said means for holding comprises a forward guide to prevent connector magazines from sliding from between said worm gear means. 22. A feeder as in claim 1 wherein each of said plate apertures is D-shaped. 23. A feeder as in claim 1 wherein said keying portions each comprise a pin extending down from said flights. 24. A feeder as in claim 6 wherein said worm gear means support connector magazines in an angled column. 25. A feeder as in claim 1 wherein said means for holding a connector magazine for dispensing of connectors holds the magazine at an angled orientation for gravity feeding of connectors from the magazine. 26. An apparatus for feeding objects comprising: a frame; two worm gears axially rotatably connected to said frame, said worm gears each having a flight section and forming a central feeding path between said worm gears for holding and moving objects through said path; two platform plates movably connected to said frame for reciprocating linear movement, each one of said plates being located under one of said worm gear flight sections and being operably moveable, at least partially, into and out of said central feeding path, each plate comprising a key receiving portion; means for axially rotating said two worm gears; and means for operably moving said two plates in response to predetermined axial rotation of said two worm gears including a moving key member connected to each one of said worm gears, said key members being cooperatable with said plate key receiving portions to move said plates into said central feeding path upon a first predetermined axial rotation of said worm gears, and to move said plates out of said central feeding path upon a second predetermined axial rotation of said worm gears. 