A mechanical closed loop robotic arm end effector positioning system which produces a precision reference frame with an associated workpiece fixture or other robotic manipulator system is disclosed. The positioning system results in decoupling of end effector operation from gross movement inaccuracies or vibrations of the robotic arm, thus allowing less precise robots to perform high precision tasks. The system includes a wrist assembly which is mountable to the robotic arm near the arm's distal functional end. The wrist assembly has a compliant member and a first positioning member connected thereto. The first positioning member includes a first docking arrangement. A second positioning member associated with the workpiece fixture includes a second docking arrangement. The first and second docking arrangements are sized and positioned to engageably mate within the robotic arm's resolution when the robotic arm attains a target position relative to the workpiece fixture. The compliant member provides rotational and translational freedom of movement for the docking arrangements to mate as the robotic arm attains its target coordinates and orientation. In further embodiments, the second positioning member is capable of two-dimensional movement in a plane parallel to the plane of the workpiece fixture, and an embodiment for locating two robotic arm and effectors relative to one another is provided.
Claims I claim: 1. A mechanical closed loop system for translationally locating along X, Y, Z axes and rotationally locating about each of said X, Y, Z axes the distal end of a robotic arm relative to a workpiece fixture, the distal robotic arm end having an independently operated micro-robotic manipulator affixed thereto for performance of high precision tasks on a workpiece positioned on said fixture, said system comprising: a wrist assembly mountable to the robotic arm, said assembly having a compliant member and a first positioning member connected to the compliant member, said first positioning member including a first docking means; a second positioning member associated with the workpiece fixture, said second positioning member including a second docking means; said first docking means and said second docking means comprising: (i) a first positioning leg connected to one of said first positioning member and said second positioning member and a first positioning port associated with the other of said first positioning member and said second positioning member, said first positioning port having a tapered lead in configured to engagably receive and position said first positioning legs free end as the robotic arm attains a target position relative to the workpiece fixture; (ii) a second positioning leg connected to one of said first positioning member and said second positioning member and a second positioning port associated the other of said first positioning member and said second positioning member, said second positioning port having a tapered lead in configured to engagably receive and position said second positioning leg's free end as the robotic arm attains its target position relative to the workpiece fixture; (iii) a third positioning leg connected to one of said first positioning member and said second positioning member, said third positioning leg being sized and configured such that its free end engages the other of said first positioning member and said second positioning member when the robotic arm attains its target position relative to the workpiece fixture; said compliant member providing rotational and translational freedom of movement for said first docking means to precisely position itself with respect to and interlock with said second docking means to ensure that the robotic arm attains the desired three-dimensional coordinates and three-dimensional rotational orientation relative to the workpiece fixture; and said micro-robotic manipulator being located intermediate said first positioning member and said second positioning member when said first docking means and said second docking means are interlocked, whereby docking of said first and second positioning members produces a translational and rotational six-degree of freedom mechanical closed loop reference frame which separates operation of the independent micro-robotic manipulator from gross movement inaccuracies and vibrations of the robotic arm. 2. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein the robotic arm includes the independent micro-robotic manipulator and the wrist assembly is mountable to the robotic arm without impairing functioning of the arm's micro-robotic manipulator. 3. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein the locating system further comprises the independent micro-robotic manipulator and said micro-robotic manipulator is secured to the wrist assembly. 4. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein said first positioning member includes said positioning legs and said positioning ports are associated with said second positioning member. 5. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein said positioning ports are associated with said first positioning member and said second positioning member has said positioning legs. 6. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein said positioning legs are each substantially straight and of fixed length. 7. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein said first positioning legs free end is male conical shaped and said first positioning port is female conical shaped. 8. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein said second positioning leg's free end is male wedge shaped and said second positioning port is female wedge shaped. 9. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 7, wherein said second positioning leg's free end is male wedge shaped and said second positioning port is female wedge shaped. 10. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 9, wherein said wedge-shaped free end and port are arranged colinear to lines connecting said conical-shaped free end and port and said wedge-shaped free end and port. 11. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 9, wherein said third positioning leg's free end is flat. 12. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 7, further comprising a third positioning port associated with the one of said first positioning member and said second positioning member not having said third positioning leg, said third positioning port being configured to matably receive within the robotic arm's resolution said third positioning leg's free end as the robotic arm attains its target position relative to the workpiece fixture. 13. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 12, wherein said second and third positioning legs' free ends are each male conical shaped and said second and third positioning ports are each female conical shaped. 14. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein the positioning legs form a triangular-shaped configuration when said first and second members are docked and wherein the micro-robotic manipulator is located within said triangular-shaped configuration. 15. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein the positioning legs form a triangular-shaped configuration when said first and second members are docked and wherein the micro-robotic manipulator is offset from said triangular-shaped configuration. 16. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 15, wherein the workpiece fixture includes a pad which is offset from a workpiece when the workpiece is positioned within said fixture, said pad having said second positioning member associated therewith. 17. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 16, wherein said pad terminates above the workpiece when positioned within said fixture and wherein said positioning ports are associated with said second positioning member. 18. The mechanical locating device of claim 1, wherein said ports are associated with said second positioning member and wherein said second positioning member is integral with said workpiece fixture. 19. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein said wrist assembly is detachably mountable to the robotic arm. 20. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein said compliant member is manufactured of rubber. 21. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein said compliant member is manufactured of elastomeric material. 22. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein said compliant member includes a spring. 23. The mechanical closed loop locating system of claim 1, wherein said compliant member is manufactured of at least two of rubber, elastomeric material, and a spring. 