A drill tool is mounted to a robotic arm and is capable of operating in limited access space. The drill is driven by a motor shaft capable of exhibiting simultaneous linear and rotational motion. A right angle drill head is slidably mounted to a support and is driven by the motor shaft so that the drill bit moves toward a work piece while it rotates. A cylinder-driven clamp has its jaws coaxially aligned with a drill bit and is capable of clamping several pieces together, the latter constituting a work piece. One of the clamp jaws has a bushing which serves as both a drill guide and a clamp jaw.
Claims We claim: 1. An offset drilling tool comprising: a main support member; slide means secured to the member for sliding relative to the support member; a drill housing mounted to the slide means; a right angle drill head extending from the drill housing for receiving a drill bit; motor means mounted to the support member and having a shaft for undergoing simultaneous rotational and linear motions; a plurality of interconnected right angle drive means passing through the housing and connected at a first end thereof to the drill head; and means connected between a second end of the drive means and the shaft for coupling linear motion to the drill housing and simultaneous rotation to the drill head resulting in linear motion of the drill bit toward and away from a work piece while the bit rotates. 2. 2. The structure set forth in claim 1 together with a clamping assembly comprising: a first clamp arm having an outward end thereof receiving a bushing with a first end serving as a guide for the drill bit, the bushing having an opposite end including a jaw surface for contacting a work piece surface; a second clamp arm which is movable relative to the first arm and having a jaw surface aligned with the jaw surface of the first arm for contacting a second work piece surface; and means connected to the support member for moving one clamp arm relative to the other in a direction coaxial with the movement of the drill bit. 3. The structure set forth in claim 2 wherein the slide means is a dovetail slide. 4. The structure set forth in claim 2 wherein the means for moving the clamp arm comprises: cylinder means having a movable actuator; and means coupling the actuator to the movable clamp arm. 5. A drilling tool for connection to a robotic arm, the tool comprising: a support member; a dovetail slide secured to the member for sliding relative to the support member; a drill housing mounted perpendicularly to the slide; a right angle drill head extending from the drill housing in parallel relationship to the support member for receiving a drill bit; a motor mounted to the support member and having a shaft for undergoing simultaneous rotational and linear motion; a plurality of interconnected right angle drive means passing through the housing and connected at a first end thereon to the drill head; means connected between a second end of the drive means and the shaft for coupling linear motion to the drill housing and simultaneous rotation to the drill head resulting in linear motion of a drill bit toward and away from a work piece while the bit rotates; and a clamping assembly comprising: a first stationary clamp arm having an outward end thereof receiving a bushing with a first end serving as a guide for the drill bit, the bushing having an opposite end including a jaw surface for contacting a first work piece surface; a second clamp arm which is movable relative to the first arm and having a jaw surface aligned with the jaw surface of the stationary arm for contacting a second work piece surface; a pneumatic cylinder having a reciprocatable actuator; and means coupling the actuator to the movable clamp arm. 6. The structure set forth in claim 5 together with means for interfacing the tool to a robotic arm. 