A device for measuring the thickness of a wet or dry paint film applied on a substrate without contacting the film is disclosed. The device uses an optical sensor positioned centrally and coaxially with an inductive eddy-current proximity sensor. The optical sensor measures the distance between the device and the upper surface of the paint film at specular reflection angle. The proximity sensor measures the distance between the device and the upper surface of the substrate. The two distances measured, when compared, produce the film thickness value. The device is capable of accurately measuring thickness of various paint films, such as flat, glossy and metal-flake containing paint films.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for measuring the thickness of a film applied on a substrate without contacting the film, comprising; (a) first optical sensor means for measuring a first distance value between the top surface of the film and the device; (b) second inductive eddy-current proximity sensor means generally oval in shape and has a slot extending about a center axis thereof coaxial with said first means for measuring a second distance value between the top surface of the substrate and the device; and said optical sensor means is positioned centrally above said proximity sensor means and projects a light beam through said slot; and wherein the optical axis of symmetry is coaxial with the proximity sensor means axis and the beam intersects the proximity sensor means axis at the top surface of the film; and (c) said first and second means disposed on the same side of the substrate; and (d) means electrically connected with said first and second means for calculating the film thickness by comparing said first and second distance values. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein: (a) said optical sensor means is oriented in a manner so as to measure first distance value at the specular reflection angle of the beam. 3. A device for applying film to a substrate comprising: (a) means for applying the film to the substrate; (b) means for receiving a signal from a film thickness measuring device defined below and determining increase or decrease in the amount of film to be applied to a next substrate and transmitting a signal to said film applying means for controlling the amount of film to be applied; wherein the film thickness measuring device measures film thickness of a film applied on a substrate without contacting the film and comprises: (1) optical sensor means for measuring a first distance value between the top surface of the film and the device; (2) inductive eddy-current proximity sensor means coaxial with said optical sensor means for measuring a second distance value between the top surface of the substrate and the device, said proximity sensor having a central opening through which the optical sensor measures the first distance value whereby the proximity sensor does not interfere with the optical sensor; (3) said optical sensor means and said proximity sensor means disposed on the same side of the substrate; and (4) means electrically connected with said optical sensor means and said proximity sensor means for calculating the film thickness by comparing said first and second distance values and means for feeding a signal to the above adjusting means. 4. A device for measuring the thickness of a film applied on a substrate without contacting the film, comprising: (a) optical sensor means for measuring a first distance value between the top surface of the film and the device; (b) inductive eddy-current proximity sensor means coaxial with said optical sensor means for measuring a second distance value between the top surface of the substrate and the device, said proximity sensor having a central opening through which the optical sensor measures the first distance value whereby the proximity sensor does not interfere with the optical sensor; (c) said optical sensor means and said proximity sensor means disposed on the same side of the substrate; and (d) means electrically connected with said optical sensor means and said proximity sensor means for calculating the film thickness by comparing said first and second distance values. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein: (a) said proximity sensor means is hollow and generally rectangular in shape. 6. A device for measuring the thickness of a film applied on a substrate without contacting the film, comprising: (a) optical sensor means for measuring a first distance value between the top surface of the film and the device; (b) inductive eddy-current proximity sensor means coaxial with said optical sensor means for measuring a second distance value between the top surface of the substrate and the device, said proximity sensor having a central opening through which the optical sensor measures the first distance value whereby the proximity sensor does not interfere with the optical sensor; (c) auxiliary sensor means spaced from said proximity sensor means for measuring a third distance value between the top surface of the substrate and the device; (d) said optical sensor means, said proximity sensor means, and said auxiliary sensor means all disposed on the same side of the substrate; (e) means electrically connected with said optical sensor means, said proximity sensor means, and said auxiliary sensor means for calculating the film thickness by comparing said first, second, and third distance values. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein: (a) said proximity sensor means is hollow and generally rectangular in shape; and (b) said auxiliary sensor means is generally cylindrical in shape. 8. The device of claim 6, wherein: (a) a plurality of said auxiliary sensor means are disposed around said proximity sensor means in a circular pattern. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein: (a) said auxiliary sensor means are equilaterally spaced by an angular distance of about 120.degree.. 10. The device of claim 8, wherein: (a) at least three said auxiliary sensor means are disposed around said proximity sensor means. 11. The device of claim 6, wherein: (a) said auxiliary sensor means includes at least one inductive eddy-current proximity sensor. 