A compliant joint is provided for prosthetic and robotic devices which permits rotation in three different planes. The joint provides for the controlled use of cable under motion. Perpendicular outer mounting frames are joined by swaged cables that interlock at a center block. Ball bearings allow for the free rotation of the second mounting frame relative to the first mounting frame within a predetermined angular rotation that is controlled by two stop devices. The cables allow for compliance at the stops and the cables allow for compliance in six degrees of freedom enabling the duplication or simulation of the rotational movement and flexibility of a natural hip or knee joint, as well as the simulation of a joint designed for a specific robotic component for predetermined design parameters.
Claims We claim: 1. A compliant joint for joining robotic body components or skeletal members such as knee, elbow, hip or finger joints, comprising: a center mass means, first and second U-shaped brackets surrounding said center mass means said first and second U-shaped brackets coupled to adjacent component means such as robotic components or skeletal members; a first pair of diametrically opposed cable segments coupled to opposite sides of said center mass means at one end of said cable segments, and coupled individually to legs of said first U-shaped bracket at the opposite end of said cable segments; a second pair of diametrically opposed cable segments coupled to opposite sides of said center mass means at one end of said cable segments, and coupled to individually to legs of said second U-shaped bracket at the opposite end of said cable segments, wherein the points of coupling of said cable segments to said center mass means lie in the same plane, and said points of coupling of said cable segments to said center mass means are perpendicular to adjacent points of coupling, thereby enabling said first and second U-shaped brackets with the ability to move angularly, vertically, laterally, and rotationally with respect to one another; bearings mounted onto said legs of said first U-shaped bracket, said bearings being coupled to said cable segment ends coupled to said first U-shaped bracket to allow for easier rotation of said second U-shaped bracket with respect to said first U-shaped bracket; and stop means incorporated into said bearings to limit the rotational movement of said second U-shaped bracket with respect to said first U-shaped bracket. 2. The compliant joint of claim 1, wherein said ends of said first and second pair of cable segments are coupled by swaging said ends to said center mass and saId first and second U-shaped brackets. 3. The compliant joint of claim 1 wherein said bearings are ball bearings. 4. The compliant joint of claim 1 wherein the compliance in said cable segments can be varied by pre-twisting said cable segments in a clockwise or counterclockwise direction. 5. The compliant joint of claim 1 wherein the compliance in said cable segments can be varied by increasing or decreasing the diameter of said cable segments. 6. The compliant joint of claim 1 wherein the compliance in said cable segments can be varied by increasing or decreasing the lengths of said cable segments. 7. The compliant joint of claim 1 further including means for offsetting the position of attachment of at least one of said means for coupling U-shaped brackets to said robotic components or skeletal member. 8. The compliant joint of claim 1 wherein each cable segment of said pair of cable segments is maintained at a predetermined degree of compliance that may be different from said other cable segment. 9. The compliant joint of claim 1 wherein said bearings are friction bearings. 10. The compliant joint of claim 1 wherein said stop means comprises a arm mounted onto said bearing member wherein said arm rotates between two stop elements thereby limiting the rotational movement of said bearing. 11. A complaint joint for joining robotic body components or skeletal member such as knee, elbow, hip or finger joints comprising: a center mass means; first and second U-shaped brackets surrounding said center mass means said first and second U-shaped brackets coupled to adjacent component means such as robotic body components or skeletal members; a first cable segment extending through and coupled to said center mass means and coupled at each end to each leg of said first U-shaped bracket; a second cable segment extending through and coupled to said center mass means and coupled at each end to each leg of said second U-shaped bracket; bearings mounted onto said legs of said first U-shaped bracket, said bearings being coupled to said cable segment ends coupled to said first U-shaped bracket to allow for easier rotation of said second U-shaped bracket with respect to said first U-shaped bracket; stop means incorporated into said bearings to limit the rotational movement of said second U-shaped bracket with respect to said first U-shaped bracket; and means for offsetting the position of attachment of at least one of said means for coupling U-shaped brackets to said robotic components or skeletal member. 12. The compliant joint of claim 11, wherein the ends of said first and second cable segments are coupled by swaging said ends to said first and second U-shaped brackets. 13. The compliant joint of claim 11 wherein said bearings are ball bearings. 14. The compliant joint of claim 11 wherein the compliance in said cable segments can be varied by pre-twisting said cable segments in a clockwise or counterclockwise direction. 15. The compliant joint of claim 11 wherein the compliance in said cable segments can be varied by increasing or decreasing the diameter of said cable segments. 16. The compliant joint of claim 11 wherein the compliance in said cable segments can be varied by increasing or decreasing the lengths of said cable segments. 17. The compliant joint of claim 11 wherein said bearings are friction bearings. 18. The compliant joint of claim 11 wherein said stop means comprises a arm mounted onto said bearing member wherein said arm rotates between two stop elements thereby limiting the rotational movement of said bearing. 