A mirror scanning system comprises a single mirror mounted to rotate on a first axis that is substantially in the plane of the mirror reflecting surface and on a second axis perpendicular to and intersecting the first axis. Both the mirror and the first axis rotate around the second axis. An optical system is directed at a portion of the reflecting surface of the mirror at or adjacent to the intersection of the two axes and has a focal axis substantially aligned with the second axis. By aligning the reflecting surface in a direction so as to maximize a signal emanating from a source and detected at a selected position on a detector forming part of the optical system and measuring the angular displacement of the mirror around each of the first and second axes with the reflecting surface so aligned, the direction of a detected source can be determined. Alternatively if the optic system includes the source in place of the detector the energy emitted from the source located in the optical system can be reflected in a selected direction that can be easily and rapidly changed.
Claims We claim: 1. A scanner comprising a mirror having a reflective surface, an optical system having a focal axis directed at an area of said reflecting surface, means for mounting said mirror to rotate about a first axis located substantially in the plane of said reflecting surface, means for rotating said mirror about said first axis, means mounting said mirror and said first axis for rotation about a second axis, said second axis being formed by a hollow shaft, said means to rotate said mirror about said first axis including a substantially non extendable cable under tension extending through said hollow shaft and connected to said mirror in a position spaced from said first axis, means for biasing said mirror to maintain tension in said cable and means for moving said connecting means substantially axially of said hollow shaft, said first axis and said second axis being substantially mutually perpendicular and intersecting, means for rotating said mirror and said first axis about said second axis, said second axis and said focal axis being substantially in axial alignment. 2. A scanner as defined in claim 1 wherein said optic system includes a light source projecting light along said focal axis and wherein movement of said mirror around said first and second axes directs light from said source in selected directions. 3. A scanner comprising a mirror having a reflective surface, an optical system having a focal axis directed at an area of said reflecting surface, said optical system including a sensor for detecting the location of the position where an energy signal emanating as a ray from a source and reflected into said system form said reflecting surface strikes said sensor and determining a U coordinate and a V coordinate for said position and provide corresponding U and V coordinate signals, means for mounting said mirror to rotate about a first axis located substantially in the plane of said reflecting surface, means for rotating said mirror about said first axis, means mounting said mirror and said first axis for rotation about a second axis, said first axis and said second axis being substantially mutually perpendicular and intersecting, means for rotating said mirror and said first axis about said second axis, said second axis and said focal axis being substantially in axial alignment, means to measure a first angle indicating the angular position of said mirror around said first axis relative to a datum plane substantially perpendicular to said second axis and means to measure a second angle indicative of the angular displacement of said first axis around said second axis relative to a second datum, said second datum being a plane axial on said second axis, a computer means to control said means for rotating said mirror around said first and said second axes into mirror orientations having selected first and second angles, said computer means having means to analyses said signals from said sensor and to control said means for rotating said mirror about said first and said second axes to substantially align said position with a selected area on said sensor. 4. A scanner as defined in claim 3 wherein said computer means controls said means for rotating said mirror about said first and second axes to substantially align said position with said focal axis. 5. A scanner as defined in claim 4 wherein said source is moveable in a plane substantially parallel with said focal axis. 6. A scanner as defined in claim 3 wherein said second axis is formed by a hollow shaft and wherein said means to rotate said mirror about said first axis includes a connecting means extending through said hollow shaft and connected to said mirror in a position spaced from said first axis and means for moving said connecting means substantially axially of said hollow shaft. 7. A scanner as defined in claim 6 wherein said connecting means comprises a substantially non extendable cable under tension and wherein said mirror is biased to maintain tension in said cable. 