The present invention includes three vehicles that can operate independently as toys or alternatively can be reconfigured to simulate a robot.
Claims Accordingly, the present invention should be determined solely from the following claims, wherein I claim: 1. A toy assembly simulating a robot of humanoid form with removable members reconfiguration into separate toy vehicles comprising: a first member configured to simulate a robotic humanoid head and trunk; a second member removably attached to the first member and configured to simulate a pair of robotic humanoid arm appendages; a third member removably attached to the first member and configured to simulate a pair of robotic humanoid leg appendages; means on the first member for removable connection to the second and third members, and means for providing locomotion on each of the first, second and third members to permit each member to operate independently as separate vehicles. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein the second member includes simulated wings extending from a body member. 3. The invention of claim 2 further including means for firing a projectile on each wing. 4. The invention of claim 3 wherein the means for firing a projectile are relative movable outward from the body member. 5. The invention of claim 4 wherein means for interconnecting with the first member are provided on the wings. 6. The invention of claim 5 wherein each wing member is divided into two movable wing portions. 7. The invention of claim 5 further including projectiles configured to simulate humanoid hands. 8. The invention of claim 5 wherein the body member is pivotally connected to the wing members to permit rotation behind the wing members to accomodate interconnection with the first member when configured into a robot toy. 9. The invention of claim 1 wherein the third member includes a pair of support members pivotally connected to assume one position simulating the feet of a robot and a second position simulating a pair of rocket engines. 10. A toy assembly simulating a robot of humanoid form with removable members reconfiguration into separate toy vehicles comprising: a first member configured to simulate a robotic humanoid head and trunk member; a second member removably attached to the first member and configured to simulate a pair of robotic humanoid arm appendages; a third member removably attached to the first member and configured to simulate a pair of robotic humanoid leg appendages; means for providing locomotion on each of the first, second and third members to permit each member to operate independently as simulated vehicles; and means on the first member for connection to the second and third members, the robot head being relatively movable into the trunk member to permit reconfiguration into a simulated toy vehicle. 11. The invention of claim 10 wherein the robot head simulates a rocket exhaust assembly when moved into the trunk member. 