A robotic device has a base and at least one finger having at least two links that are connected in series on rotary joints with at least two degrees of freedom. A brushless motor and an associated controller are located at each joint to produce a rotational movement of a link. Wires for electrical power and communication serially connect the controllers in a distributed control network. A network operating controller coordinates the operation of the network, including power distribution. At least one, but more typically two to five, wires interconnect all the controllers through one or more joints. Motor sensors and external world sensors monitor operating parameters of the robotic hand. The electrical signal output of the sensors can be input anywhere on the distributed control network. V-grooves on the robotic hand locate objects precisely and assist in gripping. The hand is sealed, immersible and has electrical connections through the rotary joints for anodizing in a single dunk without masking. In various forms, this intelligent, self-contained, dexterous hand, or combinations of such hands, can perform a wide variety of object gripping and manipulating tasks, as well as locomotion and combinations of locomotion and gripping.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for anodizing a robotic device having structural components rotatably connected to one another at rotary joints, the robotic device having an outer housing formed of an electrically conductive material that forms at least one interior cavity that contains electrical components of the robotic device, the at least one interior cavity having an opening, the process comprising: providing anodizing solution; sealing the opening of the at least one interior cavity in order to prevent a flow of said anodizing solution into said at least one interior cavity when the device is immersed in said anodizing solution, wherein said sealing comprises replaceably sealing the opening of the at least one interior cavity with a generally circular cover, wherein the generally circular cover comprises an O-ring seal disposed at the periphery of the generally circular cover, and wherein the generally circular cover is positioned in the opening of the at least one interior cavity so that the cover seals against the adjacent surfaces of the at least one interior cavity; electrically connecting all of the exterior structural components of the robotic device, including the rotary joints; immersing said sealed and electrically connected robotic device in said anodizing solution; and applying an electrical current through the solution and the immersed robotic device to effect an anodizing of all the exposed exterior surfaces of the robotic device without a pre-masking of the robotic device. 2. The anodizing process of claim 1 further comprising rinsing the anodized robotic device in a rinse solution and controlling the temperature of said anodizing solution and said rinse solution, to similar values to control the development of pressure gradients that degrade said sealing. 3. The anodizing process of claim 1 wherein the robotic tool is formed of aluminum and said solution providing and applying of electrical current produce a Teflon.RTM. anodized layer. 4. The anodizing process of claim 1 wherein said sealing further comprises securing said circular covers to the structural components with screws formed of a material resistant to the anodizing. 