Embodiments of the invention include a load lock chamber, a processing system having a load lock chamber and a method for transferring substrates between atmospheric and vacuum environments. In one embodiment, the method includes maintaining a processed substrate within a transfer cavity formed in a chamber body for two venting cycles. In another embodiment, the method includes transferring a substrate from a transfer cavity to a heating cavity formed in the chamber body, and heating the substrate in the heating cavity. In another embodiment, a load lock chamber includes a chamber body having substrate support disposed in a transfer cavity. The substrate support is movable between a first elevation and a second elevation. A plurality of grooves are formed in at least one of a ceiling or floor of the transfer cavity and configured to receive at least a portion of the substrate support when located in the second elevation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A load lock chamber comprising: a chamber body having a first substrate transfer cavity defined therein; an actuator coupled to the chamber body; a plurality of substrate supports coupled to the actuator and disposed in the first substrate transfer cavity, the plurality of substrate supports movable between a first elevation and a second elevation; a plurality of slots formed in a floor of the first substrate transfer cavity and configured to receive at least a portion of the plurality of substrate supports when located in the second elevation; a second substrate transfer cavity formed in the chamber body below the first substrate transfer cavity, the second substrate transfer cavity having a second plurality of substrate supports coupled to the actuator and disposed therein and movable between a first elevation and a second elevation; and a plurality of slots formed in a floor of the second substrate transfer cavity and configured to receive at least a portion of the second plurality of substrate supports when located in the second elevation, wherein the plurality of substrate supports are each selectively adjustable and independently movable within each substrate transfer cavity. 2. The load lock chamber of claim 1 further comprising: a heating cavity formed in the chamber body. 3. The load lock chamber of claim 2 further comprising: a plurality of passages adapted to circulate a heat transfer fluid disposed in a body between the heating cavity and the first transfer cavity. 4. The load lock chamber of claim 1, wherein the substrate support further comprises: a plurality of bars coupled to the actuator. 5. The load lock chamber of claim 4, wherein the actuator further comprises: a plurality of actuation rods coupled to the plurality of bars. 6. The load lock chamber of claim 4, wherein the substrate support further comprises: a plurality of pins extending from the plurality of bars. 7. The load lock chamber of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of actuators coupled to the chamber body and the plurality of substrate supports. 8. The load lock chamber of claim 7, wherein the plurality of substrate supports further comprises: a plurality of bars coupled to the plurality of actuators. 9. The load lock chamber of claim 8, wherein the plurality of actuators further comprises: a plurality of actuation rods coupled to the plurality of bars. 10. The load lock chamber of claim 9, further comprising: a plurality of pins extending from the plurality of bars. 11. The load lock chamber of claim 9, wherein the plurality of substrate supports comprises at least an upper and lower substrate support, and wherein at least one of the plurality of actuation rods passes through the upper substrate support and is coupled to the lower substrate support. 12. The load lock chamber of claim 11, wherein the plurality of actuators are concentrically aligned. 13. The load lock chamber of claim 12, wherein at least one of the plurality of actuation rods telescopes through another of the plurality of actuation rods. 