Process and system for processing wafer-shaped objects, such as semiconductor wafers is disclosed. In accordance with the present disclosure, a multiple of two wafers are processed in a thermal processing chamber. The thermal processing chamber is in communication with at least one heating device for heating the wafers. The wafers are placed in the thermal processing chamber in a face-to-face configuration or in a back-to-back configuration.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for thermally processing a plurality of wafer-shaped objects comprising: placing a first wafer-shaped object into a thermal processing chamber, the first wafer-shaped object having a diameter and having a first side and a second and opposite side, the first side comprising a working side configured to be modified while in the thermal processing chamber, the second side comprising a back side; placing a second wafer-shaped object into the thermal processing chamber, the second wafer-shaped object having a first side and a second and opposite side, the first side comprising a working side configured to be modified while in the thermal processing chamber, the second side comprising a back side, and wherein the second wafer-shaped object is placed in the thermal processing chamber spaced a distance from the first wafer-shaped object and such that the first side of the first wafer-shaped object faces the first side of the second wafer-shaped object or the second side of the first wafer-shaped object faces the second side of the second wafer-shaped object; and processing the first and second wafer-shaped objects in the thermal processing chamber by heating the objects. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first side of the first wafer-shaped object and the first side of the second wafer-shaped object are facing each other during processing. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the second side of the first wafer-shaped object and the second side of the second wafer-shaped object are facing each other during processing. 4. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the second wafer-shaped object has a diameter that is substantially similar to the diameter of the first wafer-shaped object. 5. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein both wafer-shaped objects are placed in the thermal processing chamber simultaneously. 6. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first and second wafer-shaped objects comprise semiconductor wafers. 7. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein a first temperature measuring device measures the temperature of the first wafer-shaped object and a second temperature measuring device measures the temperature of the second wafer-shaped object, the temperature measuring devices being in communication with a controller, the controller controlling a heating device for heating the wafer-shaped objects during processing. 8. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the thermal processing chamber is in communication with a first heating device and a second heating device, the first and second wafer-shaped objects being positioned in between the first heating device and the second heating device. 9. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first wafer-shaped object and the second wafer-shaped object are horizontally oriented within the thermal processing chamber. 10. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the surfaces of the wafer-shaped objects that are facing each other are substantially parallel to each other. 11. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first wafer-shaped object, when placed in the thermal processing chamber, is at least partially encircled by a first slip free ring and wherein the second wafer-shaped object, when placed in the thermal processing chamber, is at least partially encircled by a second slip free ring. 12. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first wafer-shaped object defines an edge exclusion region and the second wafer-shaped object also defines an edge exclusion region and wherein the first wafer-shaped object is supported in the thermal processing chamber on a first support structure, the first support structure supporting the first wafer-shaped object within the edge exclusion region and wherein the second wafer-shaped object is supported on a second support structure within the thermal processing chamber, the second support structure supporting the second wafer-shaped object within the edge exclusion region. 13. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first wafer-shaped object is supported in the thermal processing chamber by a first support structure and the second wafer-shaped object is supported in the thermal processing chamber by a second support structure, each support structure emitting gas jets that support the corresponding wafer-shaped objects. 14. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first wafer-shaped object and the second wafer-shaped object are supported in the thermal processing chamber by cushions of gas. 15. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first wafer-shaped object and the second wafer-shaped object are rotated during processing. 16. A process as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of introducing a gas into the thermal processing chamber during processing. 17. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of cooling the wafer-shaped objects after processing, the wafers being cooled by flowing a gas over at least one surface of each wafer-shaped object. 18. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein each wafer-shaped object is placed in the thermal processing chamber by a robot arm and wherein at least one of the wafer-shaped objects is inverted prior to being placed in the thermal processing chamber. 19. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first wafer-shaped object is spaced from about 0.5 mm to about 4 mm from the second wafer-shaped object. 20. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first wafer-shaped object is spaced greater than 4 mm from the second wafer-shaped object. 21. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein a gas is introduced in between the first side of the first wafer-shaped object and the first side of the second wafer-shaped object during processing. 22. A method as defined in claim 7, wherein the first temperature measuring device and the second temperature measuring device both comprise pyrometers. 23. A method as defined in claim 7, wherein the first temperature measuring device measures the temperature of the first wafer-shaped object in a center region of the first object, the second temperature measuring device measuring the temperature of the second wafer-shaped object at a center region of the second object, and wherein a third temperature measuring device measures the temperature of the first wafer-shaped object at an edge region of the first object and a fourth temperature measuring device measures the temperature of the second wafer-shaped object at an edge region of the second object, each of the temperature measuring devices being in communication with the controller for implementing the temperature-timed trajectory. 24. A method as defined in claim 7, further comprising the step of calibrating the first temperature measuring device and the second temperature measuring device by placing in the thermal processing chamber a first calibration wafer containing a first thermocouple and a second calibration wafer containing a second thermocouple, the first thermocouple being present at a first surface of the first calibration wafer and the second thermocouple being present at a first surface of the second calibration wafer, and wherein the calibration wafers are positioned in the thermal processing chamber such that the first side of the first calibration wafer faces the first side of the second calibration wafer. 25. A method as defined in claim 7, wherein the controller heats the wafer-shaped objects using closed-loop control. 26. A method as defined claim 7, wherein the controller heats the wafer-shaped objects using open-loop control. 27. A method as defined in claim 8, wherein the first heating device comprises a plurality of radiant energy sources and the second heating device also comprises a plurality of radiant energy sources. 28. A method as defined in claim 11, wherein the first wafer-shaped object includes a first thickness and is in a first plane within the thermal processing chamber and wherein the second wafer-shaped object includes a second thickness and is in a second plane in the thermal processing chamber and wherein the first slip free ring is in substantially the same plane and has a thickness of from about 50% to about 200% of the thickness of the first wafer-shaped object and the second slip free ring is in substantially the same plane and has a thickness of from about 50% to about 200% of the thickness of the second wafer-shaped object. 29. A method as defined in claim 11, wherein the first and second slip free rings comprise silicon. 30. A method as defined in claim 11, wherein the first wafer-shaped object is supported on the first slip free ring within the thermal processing chamber and the second wafer-shaped object is supported on the second slip free ring in the thermal processing chamber. 31. A method as defined in claim 11, wherein the slip free rings move in order to facilitate loading of the wafer-shaped objects as they are placed in the thermal processing chamber. 32. A method as defined in claim 11, wherein the wafer-shaped objects and the slip free rings move in and out of the thermal processing chamber together. 33. A method as defined in claim 12, wherein the edge exclusion regions have a width of no more than about 5 mm. 34. A method as defined in claim 12, wherein each support structure includes a plurality of pins that support the corresponding wafer-shaped object. 35. A method as defined in claim 12, wherein the first and second support structures are ring-shaped. 36. A method as defined in claim 12, wherein the first and second support structures define inclined surfaces that contact the corresponding wafer-shaped objects. 37. A method as defined in claim 15, wherein the first wafer-shaped object and the second wafer-shaped object are rotated in the same direction. 38. A method as defined in claim 15, wherein the first wafer-shaped object and the second wafer-shaped object are rotated in opposite directions. 39. A method as defined in claim 15, wherein the thermal processing chamber includes a rotation mechanism that rotates both wafer-shaped objects. 40. A method as defined in claim 15, wherein the thermal processing chamber includes a first rotation mechanism for rotating the first wafer-shaped object and a second rotation mechanism for rotating the second wafer-shaped object. 41. A method as defined in claim 22, wherein one of the pyrometers includes a radiation collecting device that collects radiation that emanates from in between the wafer-shaped objects. 42. A method as defined in claim 22, wherein each pyrometer includes a radiation collecting device for collecting thermal radiation being emitted by a corresponding wafer-shaped object, and wherein the first and second wafer-shaped objects are positioned in between opposing radiation collecting devices for the two pyrometers. 43. A method as defined in claim 22, wherein the thermal processing chamber is in communication with a first heating device and a second heating device, the first and second wafer-shaped objects being positioned in between the first and second heating devices, each of the heating devices comprising a plurality of radiant energy sources, and wherein, the first and second temperature measuring devices are calibrated by measuring at least one of reflectance and transmittance of at least one calibration wafer prior to processing. 44. A method as defined in claim 32, wherein the first slip free ring includes a first substrate holder for holding the first wafer-shaped object and the second slip free ring includes a second substrate holder for holding the second wafer-shaped object. 45. A method as defined in claim 34, wherein the pins are made from a material comprising fused silica, sapphire, aluminum oxide, AEON, silicon, or silicon carbide. 46. A method as defined in claim 35, wherein the first and second support structures include at least three landing areas upon which the corresponding wafer-shaped objects are supported, the landing areas having a tapered shape. 47. A method as defined in claim 41, wherein the wafer-shaped objects are rotated during processing, and wherein the radiation collecting devices rotate with the wafer-shaped objects. 48. A method as defined in claim 41, wherein the wafer-shaped objects are rotated during processing, and wherein the radiation collecting devices remain stationary during rotation of the wafer-shaped objects. 49. A method as defined in claim 46, wherein the ring-shaped portions of the support structures have a thickness and wherein the landing areas are thinner than the ring-shaped portions. 50. A semiconductor wafer processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a first substrate holder and a second substrate holder contained within the processing chamber, the first substrate holder being configured to hold a first semiconductor wafer having a working side and a back side, the second substrate holder being configured to hold a second semiconductor wafer also having a working side and a back side, the first and second substrate holders being configured to hold the first and second semiconductor wafers such that the working side of the first semiconductor wafer faces the working side of the second semiconductor wafer; a plurality of light energy sources in communication with the processing chamber for heating semiconductor wafers held by the first and second substrate holders; and a first pyrometer and a second pyrometer that measure the temperature of semiconductor wafers contained within the processing chamber, the first pyrometer being positioned to measure the temperature of a semiconductor wafer held by the first substrate holder, the second pyrometer being positioned to measure the temperature of a semiconductor wafer held on the second substrate holder, the first and second pyrometers measuring the temperature of the wafers by sensing the amount of electromagnetic radiation being emitted by the wafers, the first pyrometer being configured to measure the amount of electromagnetic radiation being emitted by a semiconductor wafer held on the first substrate holder, while the second pyrometer being configured to measure the amount of electromagnetic radiation being emitted by a semiconductor wafer being held on the second substrate holder. 51. A system as defined in claim 50, wherein the first pyrometer includes a radiation collecting device that faces a working side of a semiconductor wafer held on the first substrate holder, and the second pyrometer including a radiation collecting device that faces a working side of a semiconductor wafer held on the second substrate holder. 52. A system as defined in claim 50, further comprising a controller in communication with the first pyrometer, the second pyrometer, and the light energy sources, the controller being configured to control the amount of light energy being emitted by the light energy sources in response to temperature information received from the first and second pyrometers. 53. A system as defined in claim 50, wherein the first and second substrate holders are configured to hold semiconductor wafers in a substantially parallel relationship, the plurality of light energy sources including a first set of light energy sources that face a back side of a semiconductor wafer held by the first substrate holder and a second set of light energy sources that face a back side of a semiconductor wafer held on the second substrate holder. 54. A system as defined in claim 50, wherein the light energy sources are located outside the processing chamber, the light energy sources being separated from the chamber by at least one window. 55. A system as defined in claim 50, further comprising a gas inlet and a gas outlet in communication with the processing chamber for circulating gases therethrough or for reducing or increasing the pressure within the chamber. 56. A system as defined in claim 50, wherein at least one of the substrate holders is configured to contact a semiconductor wafer held on the substrate holder only within one edge exclusion region. 57. A system as defined in claim 50, further comprising a slip free ring configured to at least partially surround a semiconductor wafer being held on the first substrate holder and a second slip free ring configured to at least partially surround a semiconductor wafer held on the second substrate holder. 58. A system as defined in claim 50, wherein the first substrate holder comprises at least one arm that terminates in a support surface for contacting a semiconductor wafer being held on the substrate holder, the arm extending above the support surface, and wherein the second substrate holder also includes an arm terminating in a support surface for contacting a semiconductor wafer held on the second substrate holder, the arm of the second substrate holder extending below the support surface. 59. A system as defined in claim 50, further comprising a third pyrometer and a fourth pyrometer, the first pyrometer being configured to sense a temperature of a semiconductor wafer held on the first substrate holder in a center area of the wafer, the third pyrometer being configured to sense the temperature of the wafer on the first substrate holder within a peripheral region and wherein the second pyrometer is configured to measure the temperature of a semiconductor wafer being held on the second substrate holder in a center area of the wafer and the fourth pyrometer is configured to measure the temperature of the semiconductor wafer being held on the second substrate holder within a peripheral region of the wafer. 60. A system as defined in claim 50, wherein the first substrate holder and the second substrate holder are positioned so that a working side of a semiconductor wafer being held on the first substrate holder is less than about 4 mm from a working side of a semiconductor wafer held on the second substrate holder. 61. A system as defined in claim 50, wherein the first substrate holder and the second substrate holder are positioned so that a working side of a semiconductor wafer being held on the first substrate holder is greater than about 4 mm from a working side of a semiconductor wafer held on the second substrate holder. 62. A system as defined in claim 50, wherein the system includes a rotation mechanism for rotating semiconductor wafers being held on the first and second substrate holders. 63. A system as defined in claim 50, further comprising a first rotation mechanism for rotating a semiconductor wafer being held on the first substrate holder and a second rotation mechanism for rotating a semiconductor substrate being held on the second substrate holder. 64. A system as defined in claim 50, wherein at least one of the substrate holders includes inclined surfaces that are configured to only contact an edge of a semiconductor wafer held on the substrate holder. 65. A system as defined in claim 55, wherein the gas inlet is configured to emit gases such that at least 20% of the gas flow is directed in between wafers positioned on the first substrate holder and the second substrate holder. 66. A system as defined in claim 56, wherein the first substrate holder includes at least three arms for contacting a semiconductor wafer in three locations and wherein the second substrate holder also includes at least three arms for contacting a semiconductor substrate in at least three locations. 67. A system as defined in claim 57, wherein the first and second slip free rings move between an engagement position and a non-engagement position within the processing chamber, and wherein, when in the engagement position, the slip free rings surround semiconductor wafers held on the substrate holders and wherein when in the non-engagement position, the slip free rings allow for wafers to be moved into and out of the processing chamber. 68. A semiconductor wafer processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a first substrate holder and a second substrate holder contained within the processing chamber, the first substrate holder being configured to hold a first semiconductor wafer having a top surface and a bottom surface, the second substrate holder being configured to hold a second semiconductor wafer also having a top surface and a bottom surface, the first and second substrate holders being configured to hold the first and second semiconductor wafers such that the top surface of the first semiconductor wafer faces the top surface of the second semiconductor wafer; a plurality of light energy sources in communication with the processing chamber for heating semiconductor wafers held by the first and second substrate holders; first and second pyrometers for measuring the temperature of a semiconductor wafer being held on the first substrate holder, the first pyrometer being positioned to measure a center area of the wafer and the second pyrometer being positioned to measure the temperature of an edge region of the wafer; and third and fourth pyrometers for measuring the temperature of a semiconductor wafer being held on the second substrate holder, the third pyrometer being configured to measure the temperature of a center area of the semiconductor wafer, while the fourth pyrometer being configured to measure the temperature of an edge region of the semiconductor wafer. 69. A semiconductor wafer processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a first substrate holder and a second substrate holder contained within the processing chamber, the first substrate holder being configured to hold a first semiconductor wafer having a top surface and a bottom surface, the second substrate holder being configured to hold a second semiconductor wafer also having a top surface and a bottom surface, the first and second substrate holders being configured to hold the first and second semiconductor wafers such that the top surface of the first semiconductor wafer faces the top surface of the second semiconductor wafer; and a plurality of light energy sources in communication with the processing chamber for heating semiconductor wafers held by the first and second substrate holders. 