A modular split palletizer for loading layers of articles on stackable pallets. The palletizer has a frame supporting first, second, and third sections. The first section includes a layer build area and a first portion of a stacker transfer track. The second section includes a tier sheet bin, a top frame bin, and a second portion of the track. The third section includes a pallet build area and a third portion of the track. Each of the first, second, and third sections can be disassembled, moved individually and independently, and re-assembled at a new location to form the complete palletizer. Also disclosed is a method of relocating the modular split palletizer. With the palletizer at one location, the utilities connected to the palletizer are disconnected, the fasteners holding the sections together are released, and the sections are separated. The disassembled sections are moved to the new location and reassembled.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A modular split palletizer for loading layers of articles on stackable pallets comprising: a frame having a first section, a second section, and a third section, wherein each section includes a plurality of pin guides for aligning the sections, and a plurality of quick-couple and quick-release fasteners for holding the sections together and facilitating disassembly and assembly of the palletizer; wherein the first section includes a layer build area and a first portion of a stacker transfer track; wherein the second section includes a tier sheet bin, a top frame bin, and a second portion of the stacker transfer track; wherein the third section includes a pallet build area and a third portion of the stacker transfer track, and wherein the second section is positioned between the first section and the third section; a power connection and at least one compressed air connection, each connection having a quick disconnect; and, a stacker that, during operation of the palletizer, lifts a layer array from the layer build area, traverses the first, second, and third portions of the stacker transfer track and deposits the layer array onto a pallet or onto the top-most layer array on the pallet in the pallet build area, transverses the third and second portions of the stacker transfer track and lifts either a tier sheet from the tier sheet bin or a top frame from the top frame bin, and traverses the second and third portions of the stacker transfer track and deposits the tier sheet or the top frame onto the top-most layer array on the pallet in the pallet build area; wherein the assembled palletizer is capable of being quickly disassembled and reassembled at a new location by separating the first, second, and third sections, moving the separate first, second, and third sections individually and independently, and re-assembling the palletizer at the new location. 2. The modular split palletizer according to claim 1 further comprising a conveyor for delivering the articles to the layer build area. 3. The modular split palletizer according to claim 1, further comprising a pallet-loading module for delivering empty pallets to the pallet build area of the palletizer and a pallet-unloading module for removing loaded pallets from the palletizer, the pallet-loading module and the pallet-unloading module releasably attached to and detached from the frame of the palletizer. 4. The modular split palletizer according to claim 1 further comprising a plurality of wheels facilitating movement of each of the first, second, and third sections after disassembly. 5. The modular split palletizer according to claim 1, wherein the stacker transfer track includes at least one rod separable into portions corresponding substantially to and traversing each of the first, second, and third sections, the rod portions aligning the sections upon assembly of those sections. 6. The modular split palletizer according to claim 1, further comprising at least one jack bolt for facilitating disassembly of the first, second, and third sections. 7. The modular split palletizer according to claim 1, wherein the fasteners are bolts. 8. A modular split palletizer for loading layers of articles on stackable pallets comprising: a frame having a first section, a second section, and a third section, wherein each section includes a plurality of pin guides for aligning the sections, and a plurality of quick-couple and quick-release fasteners for holding the sections together and facilitating disassembly and assembly of the palletizer; wherein the first section includes a layer build area and a first portion of a stacker transfer track; wherein the second section includes a tier sheet bin, a top frame bin, and a second portion of the stacker transfer track; and wherein the third section includes a pallet build area and a third portion of the stacker transfer track, at least one power connection and at least one compressed air connection, each connection having a quick disconnect; a plurality of wheels, and a stacker that, during operation of the palletizer, lifts a layer array from the layer build area, traverses the stacker transfer track and deposits the layer array onto a pallet or onto the top-most layer array on the pallet in the pallet build area, transverses the stacker transfer track and lifts either a tier sheet from the tier sheet bin or a top frame from the top frame bin, and traverses the stacker transfer track and deposits the tier sheet or the top frame onto the top-most layer array on the pallet in the pallet build area; wherein the assembled palletizer is capable of being quickly disassembled and reassembled at a new location by separating the first, second, and third sections, moving the separate first, second, and third sections individually and independently using the plurality of wheels, and re-assembling the palletizer at the new location. 9. The modular split palletizer according to claim 8, further comprising a conveyor for delivering the articles to the layer build area. 10. The modular split palletizer according to claim 8, further comprising a pallet-loading module for delivering empty pallets to the pallet build area of the palletizer and a pallet-unloading module for removing loaded pallets from the palletizer, the pallet-loading module and the pallet-unloading module releasably attached to and detached from the frame of the palletizer. 11. The modular split palletizer according to claim 8, wherein the stacker transfer track includes at least one rod separable into portions corresponding substantially to and traversing each of the first, second, and third sections, the rod portions aligning the sections upon assembly of those sections. 12. The modular split palletizer according to claim 8 further comprising at least one jack bolt facilitating disassembly of the first, second, and third sections. 13. The modular split palletizer according to claim 8, wherein the second section is positioned between the first section and the third section. 14. The modular split palletizer according to claim 8, wherein the fasteners are bolts. 15. A method of quickly relocating an assembled modular split palletizer according to claim 1, the method comprising: with the assembled palletizer at the first location, disassembling the assembled palletizer by disconnecting utilities connected to the palletizer, releasing the fasteners that hold the sections together, and separating the sections from each other to render the palletizer in a disassembled state; moving the separated sections to the second location; and at the second location, re-assembling the palletizer by aligning pin guides between the sections, applying force to the sections pushing the sections together into tight and precise abutting engagement, inserting and tightening the fasteners to hold the sections together, and re-connecting the utilities. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein the utilities are disconnected and re-connected using quick disconnects. 17. The method according to claim 15 further comprising the step of applying jack bolts to separate the sections from each other. 18. The method according to claim 15 wherein the step of moving the sections to the second location is completed with the help of wheels. 19. The method according to claim 15 further comprising the step, commensurate with the step of aligning the pin guides between the sections, of aligning the rods of a stacker transfer track. 20. The method according to claim 15 further comprising the steps of disengaging at least one external module or component from the palletizer at the first location, and placing at least one external module or component into engagement with the palletizer at the second location. 