A vacuum packaging system for transporting a plurality of medical containers includes a plurality of medical a tray that receives and supports the medical containers. The tray includes opposing first and second side walls, opposing side and rear walls and a bottom floor. The walls extend generally perpendicularly from the bottom floor of the tray to a top edge thereof. A nesting plate is removably mountable in the tray and includes a plurality of generally cylindrical sleeves each receiving one of the plurality of medical containers. A support surface within the tray generally extends parallel to and spaced a predetermined distance from the bottom floor of the tray and receives and supports the nesting plate. An air impervious flexible film defines an internal cavity and completely surrounds the tray and the medical containers. The internal cavity is evacuated to and maintained at a predetermined vacuum level below atmospheric pressure.
Claims We claim: 1. A vacuum packaging system for transporting a plurality of medical containers comprising: a plurality of medical containers, each medical container including a head side and a base side; a tray that receives and supports the medical containers, the tray including opposing first and second sidewalls, opposing front and rear walls and a bottom floor, the walls extending generally perpendicularly from the bottom floor of the tray to a top edge thereof; a nesting plate removably mountable in the tray, the nesting plate including a top surface, a bottom surface and a plurality of generally cylindrical sleeves, each of the plurality of sleeves receiving one of the plurality of medical containers; a support surface within the tray extending generally parallel to and spaced a predetermined distance above the bottom floor of the tray, the support surface including a lip extending inwardly from a portion of each of the sidewalls, the front wall and the rear wall and a plurality of spaced-apart support members extending generally perpendicularly from the bottom floor of the tray, a top surface of each support member and a top surface of the lip being generally co-planar such that both the top surface of the lip and the top surface of each support member directly receive and support the bottom surface of the nesting plate; wherein each support member includes an enclosed first end forming a portion of the support surface and an open second end proximate the bottom floor of the tray such that each support member is generally hollow; and an air impervious flexible film defining an internal cavity, the air impervious flexible film completely surrounding the tray and the medical containers, the internal cavity being evacuated to and maintained at a predetermined vacuum level below atmospheric pressure. 2. The vacuum system of claim 1, wherein the nesting plate includes a generally planar base and reinforcing ribs extending generally perpendicularly from the base, the cylindrical sleeves defining holes in the base. 3. The vacuum packaging system of claim 1, wherein the medical containers are comprised of syringes. 4. The vacuum packaging system of claim 1, wherein the head side of each medical container is spaced a predetermined distance away from the bottom floor of the tray in the assembled configuration. 5. The vacuum packaging system of claim 1, wherein each support member has a first potion proximate the bottom floor separated from a second portion by a ledge. 6. The vacuum packaging system of claim 1, wherein each support member includes three angularly spaced-apart prongs that extend outwardly therefrom. 7. A vacuum packaging system for transporting a plurality of medical containers comprising: a plurality of medical containers, each medical container including a head side and a base side; a tray that receives and supports the medical containers, the tray including opposing first and second sidewalls, opposing front and rear walls and a bottom floor, the walls extending generally perpendicularly from the bottom floor of the tray to a top edge thereof, the tray having a height measured from the bottom floor to the top edge, a vertical midpoint of the tray defined as a point equidistantly spaced from the bottom floor to the top edge of the tray; a support surface within the tray extending generally parallel to and spaced a predetermined distance above the bottom floor of the tray, the support surface having a plurality of spaced-apart support members extending generally perpendicularly from the floor of the tray, a top surface of each support member extending generally parallel to the bottom floor of the tray and being located along the height of the tray between the top edge and the vertical midpoint, wherein each support member includes an enclosed first end forming a portion of the support surface and an open second end proximate the bottom floor of the tray such that each support member is generally hollow; a nesting plate removably mountable in the tray, the nesting plate including a top surface, a bottom surface and a plurality of generally cylindrical sleeves, each of the plurality of sleeves receiving one of the plurality of medical containers, wherein the support surface receives and supports the nesting plate and the nesting plate includes a peripheral edge that is positioned on a lip extending around at least a portion of each of the walls of the tray to support the nesting plate within the tray in the assembled configuration; and an air impervious flexible film defining an internal cavity, the air impervious flexible film completely surrounding the tray and the medical containers, the internal cavity being evacuated to and maintained at a predetermined vacuum level below atmospheric pressure. 8. The vacuum system of claim 7, wherein the nesting plate includes a generally planar base and reinforcing ribs extending generally perpendicularly from the base, the cylindrical sleeves defining holes in the base. 9. The vacuum packaging system of claim 7, wherein the head side of each medical container is spaced a predetermined distance away from the bottom floor of the tray in the assembled configuration. 10. The vacuum packaging system of claim 7, wherein the medical containers are comprised of syringes. 11. The vacuum packaging system of claim 7, wherein each support member has a first potion proximate the bottom floor separated from a second portion by a ledge. 12. The vacuum packaging system of claim 7, wherein each support member includes three angularly spaced-apart prongs that extend outwardly therefrom. 