A method for testing a plurality of electronic devices formed on a large area substrate is described. In one embodiment, the method includes transferring a substrate on an end effector relative to a testing platform having a plurality of testing columns coupled thereto, the substrate having a plurality of electronic devices located thereon, and moving the substrate in a single directional axis relative to an optical axis of each of the plurality of testing columns, the single directional axis being substantially orthogonal to the optical axis to define a test area on the substrate, wherein the test area is configured to cover an entire length or an entire width of the substrate such that the testing columns are capable of testing the entire substrate as the substrate is moved through the test area.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for testing a plurality of electronic devices on a large area substrate, comprising: transferring a substrate on an end effector relative to a testing platform having a plurality of testing columns coupled thereto, the substrate having a plurality of electronic devices located thereon; and moving the substrate in a single directional axis relative to an optical axis of each of the plurality of testing columns, the single directional axis being substantially orthogonal to the optical axis to define a test area on the substrate, wherein the test area is configured to cover an entire length or an entire width of the substrate such that the testing columns are capable of testing the entire substrate as the substrate is moved through the test area. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: positioning a prober between the substrate and the plurality of testing columns, the prober in selective electrical communication with at least a portion of the plurality of electronic devices. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of testing columns are electron beam columns. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the test area is between about 1950 mm to about 2250 mm in a first direction and about 240 mm to about 290 mm in a direction orthogonal to the first direction. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the test area is between about 1920 mm to about 2320 mm in a first direction and about 325 mm to about 375 mm in a direction orthogonal to the first direction. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic devices are thin film transistors. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the moving further comprises incrementally moving the substrate in the single directional axis. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the testing columns are operated in a vacuum environment. 9. A method for testing a plurality of electronic devices on a large area substrate, comprising: transferring a substrate on an end effector relative to a testing platform, the testing platform having a plurality of testing columns coupled thereto; and moving the substrate in a single directional axis relative to an optical axis of each of the plurality of testing columns, the single directional axis being substantially orthogonal to the optical axis, wherein each of the testing columns define a test area on the substrate, and the collective test area is configured to cover an entire length or an entire width of the substrate as the substrate is moved in the single directional axis through the collective test area. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: positioning a prober between the substrate and the plurality of testing columns, the prober in selective electrical communication with at least a portion of a plurality of electronic devices located on the substrate. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the test area of each of the plurality of testing columns is about 230 mm to about 270 mm in the Y direction, and about 340 mm to about 380 mm in the X direction. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the test area of each of the plurality of testing columns is about 325 mm to about 375 mm in the Y direction, and about 240 mm to about 290 mm in the X direction. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of testing columns comprise electron beam columns. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein the testing columns are disposed in a vacuum environment. 15. A method for testing a plurality of electronic devices on a large area substrate, comprising: transferring a substrate on an end effector relative to a testing platform, the testing platform having a plurality of testing columns coupled thereto; forming a test area on the substrate, the test area formed about an optical axis of each of the plurality of testing columns; and moving the substrate in a single direction relative to the optical axis of at least one of the plurality of testing columns, the single direction being substantially orthogonal to the optical axis of the at least one testing column, wherein the test area is configured to cover an entire length or an entire width of the substrate when the substrate is moved in the single direction through the test area. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the test area is between about 1920 mm to about 2320 mm in a first direction and about 325 mm to about 375 mm in a direction orthogonal to the first direction. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the test area is between about 1950 mm to about 2250 mm in a first direction and about 240 mm to about 290 mm in a direction orthogonal to the first direction. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the testing columns are operated in a vacuum environment. 19. The method of claim 15, further comprising: positioning a prober between the substrate and the plurality of testing columns, the prober in selective electrical communication with at least a portion of a plurality of electronic devices located on the substrate. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the electronic devices are thin film transistors. 