The present invention provides an apparatus for insertion of a flexible implant into a body section of an implant recipient, the apparatus comprising an elongate guiding section having a longitudinal axis and an inner volume for removably receiving the implant, an elongate first receiving member connected at its first end to a first actuator arranged for moving the first receiving member within the guiding section in parallel to the axis of the guiding section, a first control device for controlling the actuation of the first actuator, wherein first receiving member at its second end opposite its first end carries a gripping unit for releasably gripping a proximal end of the implant, a second actuator for controlling the configuration of the implant, and a second control device for controlling the actuation of the second actuator.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for insertion of a flexible implant into a body section of an implant recipient, the implant having a proximal end and a distal end, the apparatus comprising a guiding section having a longitudinal axis and an inner volume for removably receiving the implant, an elongate first receiving member having a first end and an opposite second end, the first end being connected to a first driven actuator which is arranged in a fixed relation to the guiding section for linear movement of the first receiving member within the guiding section in parallel to the axis of the guiding section, wherein the first receiving member at its second end carries a gripping means for releasable attachment to the proximal end of the implant, wherein a second actuator for controlling the conformation of the implant is coupled to the first actuator for coordination of the actuation of the second actuator to the actuation of the first actuator. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first actuator and the second actuator independently are electrically driven or pneumatically driven. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first actuator is under the control of a first control device. 4. An apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the first control device is a manual input device. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the coupling of the second actuator to the first actuator is by a first control device arranged for control of the actuation of the first actuator, and by a second control device arranged for the control of the actuation of the second actuator in relation to the movement of the first actuator. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first actuator is electrically driven and is under the control of a first control unit, wherein the second actuator is electrically driven and is under the control of a second control device, and wherein for coupling of the first actuator to the second actuator for coordination the actuation of the second actuator to the actuation of the first actuator, the second control device is connected to the first control device to receive data from the first control device on the movement of the first actuator. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the coupling of the second actuator to the first actuator is by arrangement of the second actuator on the first actuator. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first actuator is a linear drive arranged in parallel to the axis of the guiding section. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the second actuator is a linear drive arranged in parallel to the axis of the guiding section. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the second actuator is arranged at the guiding section, which second actuator is selected from a magnetic field generator, and a temperature control device for controlled heating or cooling of the implant arranged within the guiding section. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1, the apparatus comprising a force sensor disposed for measuring the force between the first receiving member and the first actuator. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1, the apparatus comprising a force sensor disposed for measuring the force exerted by the first actuator onto the implant. 13. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a feed rate detector is arranged between the first actuator and the base for detecting the rate of advancement of the first actuator in relation to the base. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the coupling of the second actuator to the first actuator is by a first control device arranged for control of the actuation of the first actuator, and by a second control device arranged for the control of the actuation of the second actuator in relation to the actuation of the first actuator, the apparatus comprising a force sensor disposed for measuring force exerted by the first actuator onto the implant, which force sensor is coupled to the first control device and/or the second control device, and wherein the first control device is disposed to generate control signals controlling the first actuator and/or the second actuator in response to signals received from the force sensor. 15. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the coupling of the second actuator to the first actuator is by a first control device arranged for control of the actuation of the first actuator, and by a second control device arranged for the control of the actuation of the second actuator in relation to the actuation of the first actuator, the apparatus comprising a feed rate detector detecting the movement of the first actuator, which feed rate detector is coupled to the first control device and/or the second control device, and wherein the first control device is disposed to generate control signals controlling the first actuator and/or the second actuator in response to signals received from the feed rate detector. 16. An apparatus according to claim 1, comprising a position detector disposed for detecting the relative position of the apparatus for insertion, a computing unit disposed to receive signals indicative of the relative position of the apparatus for insertion in relation to the body section receiving the implant, a computing unit disposed for receiving, storing or having access to an image of the structure of the body section receiving the implant, a computing unit disposed to calculate the position of the implant in relation to the image of the body section, and connected to a display unit disposed to display the calculated position of the implant arranged within the image of the body section as a virtual arrangement of the implant in the image of the body section. 17. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein a computing unit is disposed to receive signals from a force sensor arranged at the first receiving member. 18. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the apparatus is mounted on a robot for positioning the guiding section into a target position adjacent the site of implantation. 19. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the apparatus for insertion carries a first referencing device detectable by a position detector, wherein a second referencing device fixable to a body section of the implant recipient is detectable by the position detector, and wherein the computing unit or the detector unit is disposed for determination of the relative position of the first referencing device to the second referencing device. 20. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the signal indicative of the position of the apparatus for insertion receiving the implant is the relative position of the apparatus for insertion on a stereotaxis frame. 21. An apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the signal indicative of the position of the position of the body section is the relative position of the body section on a stereotaxis frame. 22. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first control device and/or the second control device is a computing unit disposed to generate and transmit control signals to the first actuator and/or to the second actuator of the apparatus for insertion. 23. An apparatus according to claim 22, wherein the computing unit is disposed to generate the control signals transmitted to the first actuator for moving to a pre-determined target position relative to a site of implantation and/or wherein the computing unit is disposed to generate the control signals transmitted to the second actuator for induction of a change of the configuration of the implant according to a pre-determined sequence. 24. An apparatus according to claim 22, wherein the computing unit is disposed to generate the control signals transmitted to the first actuator dependent on signals received from the force sensor attached to the first receiving member. 25. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a computing unit is disposed to generate and transmit control signals to a robot carrying the apparatus for insertion for positioning the apparatus for insertion in a target position adjacent the site of implantation. 