A thermo-reversible dry adhesive, having shape memory polymer characteristics, introduces one or more particles of micro- or nano-particles to at least one layer of the at least one layer of shape memory polymer. These particles may be remotely activated to induct heat sufficient to transform the dry adhesive material from its temporary shape to its permanent shape in the absence of load, which allows the dry adhesive to be reversibly coupled to one or more substrates, wherein the degree of adhesion is greater when the dry adhesive is in the temporary shape than in the permanent shape.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A dry adhesive material capable of transformation between a permanent shape and a temporary shape, the dry adhesive material comprising: at least one layer of an elastomeric material; and at least one layer of a shape memory polymer material, where at least one layer of said shape memory polymer material includes one or more particles of micro- or nano-meter diameter, said one or more particles capable of being remotely activated to induct heat sufficient to transform the dry adhesive material between the permanent shape and the temporary shape. 2. The adhesive material of claim 1, wherein said one or more particles comprises one or more electrically conductive particles. 3. The adhesive material of claim 2, wherein said one or more electrically conductive particles comprises one or more ceramic particles. 4. The adhesive material of claim 2, wherein said one or more electrically conductive particles comprises one or more metallic particles. 5. The adhesive material of claim 1, wherein said one or more particles comprises one or more magnetic particles. 6. A method comprising: providing a first substrate; forming at least one layer of an elastomeric material; forming at least one layer of a shape memory polymer, wherein at least one layer of said shape memory polymer material includes one or more particles of micro- or nano-meter diameter; coupling said at least one layer of said elastomeric material to said at least one layer of said shape memory polymer to form a dry adhesive, said dry adhesive transformable from a permanent shape to a temporary shape; transforming said dry adhesive from said permanent shape to said temporary shape in the presence of a load; removing said load; coupling said first substrate to said dry adhesive in said temporary shape; remotely activating said one or more particles to induce heat sufficient to transform said dry adhesive from temporary shape to said permanent shape; and uncoupling said first substrate from said dry adhesive. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein forming at least one layer of a shape memory polymer comprises: admixing one or more electrically conductive particles of micro- or nano-meter diameter with a shape memory polymer material. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein remotely activating said one or more particles comprises: applying eddy currents from an outside source to said one or more electrically conductive particles to induce heat sufficient to transform said dry adhesive from said temporary shape to said permanent shape. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein forming at least one layer of a shape memory polymer comprises: admixing one or more magnetic particles of micro- or nano-meter diameter with a shape memory polymer material. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein remotely activating said one or more particles comprises: applying a magnetic field from an outside magnetic source to said one or more magnetic particles to induce heat sufficient to transform said dry adhesive from said temporary shape to said permanent shape. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the application of said magnetic field induces said one or more magnetic particles to align with said shape memory polymer material, wherein alignment causes friction within said shape memory polymer material sufficient to raise the temperature of said shape memory polymer material above a glass transition temperature of said shape memory polymer material. 12. The method of claim 6 further comprising: providing a second substrate; coupling said dry adhesive in said temporary form to said second substrate such that said dry adhesive is located between said first substrate and said second substrate; and uncoupling said second substrate from said dry adhesive in said permanent shape after uncoupling said first substrate from said dry adhesive. 13. The method of claim 6, wherein transforming said dry adhesive from said permanent shape to said temporary shape in the presence of a load comprises: transforming said dry adhesive from said permanent shape to said temporary shape by heating said dry adhesive to a first temperature under a load, said first temperature being above the glass transition temperature of said shape memory polymer; cooling said dry adhesive in said temporary shape below said first temperature; and removing said load. 14. A method comprising: providing a first substrate; forming at least one layer of an elastomeric material; forming at least one layer of a shape memory polymer, wherein at least one layer of said shape memory polymer material includes one or more particles of micro- or nano-meter diameter; coupling said at least one layer of said elastomeric material to said at least one layer of said shape memory polymer to form a dry adhesive, said dry adhesive transformable from a permanent shape to a temporary shape; remotely activating said one or more particles to induce heat sufficient to transform said dry adhesive from said permanent shape to said temporary shape in the presence of a load; removing said load; and coupling said first substrate to said dry adhesive in said temporary shape. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising: remotely activating said one or more particles to induce heat sufficient to transform said dry adhesive from temporary shape to said permanent shape; and uncoupling said first substrate from said dry adhesive. 16. The method of claim 14 further comprising: providing a second substrate; and coupling said second substrate to said dry adhesive in said temporary shape such that said dry adhesive is located between said first substrate and said second substrate. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein forming at least one layer of a shape memory polymer comprises: admixing one or more electrically conductive particles of micro- or nano-meter diameter with a shape memory polymer material. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein remotely activating said one or more particles comprises: applying eddy currents from an outside source to said one or more electrically conductive particles to induce heat sufficient to transform said dry adhesive from said temporary shape to said permanent shape. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein forming at least one layer of a shape memory polymer comprises: admixing one or more magnetic particles of micro- or nano-meter diameter with a shape memory polymer material. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein remotely activating said one or more particles comprises: applying a magnetic field from an outside magnetic source to said one or more magnetic particles to induce heat sufficient to transform said dry adhesive from said temporary shape to said permanent shape. 