A multi-camera system that collects images and videos of moving objects in dynamic and crowded scenes, subject to task constraints is disclosed. The system constructs "task visibility intervals" comprising information about what can be sensed in future time intervals. Methods for constructing these intervals applying prediction of future object motion and including consideration of factors such as object occlusion and camera control parameters are also disclosed. Using a plane-sweep algorithm, these atomic intervals can be combined in a method to form multi-task intervals, during which a single camera can collect videos suitable for multiple tasks simultaneously. Methods for fast camera scheduling that yield solutions within a small constant factor of an optimal solution are also disclosed.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for processing a plurality of vision tasks on a plurality of objects by a plurality of cameras with pan tilt zoom (PTZ) settings in a vision system, comprising: determining the plurality of vision tasks to be performed by a processor for each of the plurality of objects; determining PTZ settings of a camera for the processor to perform a vision task on an object; determining a vision task visibility interval (TVI) for a camera in the plurality of cameras for the processor to perform one vision task or multiple vision tasks (MTVI) using the PTZ settings; assigning the camera in the plurality of cameras to a TVI or MTVI; creating a Directed Acyclic Graph DAG wherein each MTVI and TVI is a node; defining a sink node-source node pair for a camera; connecting a sink node to one final sink node; connecting a source node with outgoing edges to corresponding MTVIs and TVIs; connecting a sink node with incoming edges from corresponding MTVIs and TVIs; defining an upper bounding set for each source node corresponding to a camera that has an incoming edge from a sink node corresponding to a different camera; and applying dynamic programming to the DAG for determining a schedule. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein atomic TVIs are constructed comprising: determining for each of the plurality of cameras temporal intervals during which an object remains unobstructed and within a field of regard of the camera; and determining within the temporal intervals atomic intervals wherein vision task specific camera settings exist for an object within a field of regard. 3. The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein atomic TVIs of different vision tasks are combined into a Multiple Tasks Visibility Interval (MTVI) for a camera. 4. The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein all MTVIs for a camera are determined by applying a plane sweep algorithm. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1, for scheduling of one camera based on a determined set of MTVIs and atomic TVIs to optimize coverage of vision tasks, comprising: creating a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) wherein each MTVI and TVI is a node; connecting a source node with outgoing edges to each MTVI and TVI; connecting a sink node with incoming edges from each MTVI and TVI; and applying dynamic programming to the DAG for determining a schedule. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, for scheduling of a plurality of cameras based on a determined set of MTVIs and atomic TVIs to optimize coverage of vision tasks, comprising: applying a greedy algorithm by iteratively selecting an MTVI or TVI that covers a maximum number of uncovered vision tasks. 7. A system for processing a plurality of vision tasks on a plurality of objects by a plurality of cameras with pan tilt zoom (PTZ) settings in a vision system, comprising: a processor; software operable on the processor to: determining the plurality of vision tasks to be processed for each of the plurality of objects; determining PTZ settings of a camera for the processor to perform a vision task on an object; determining a vision task visibility interval (TVI) for a camera in the plurality of cameras for the processor to perform one vision task or multiple vision tasks in a multiple vision task visibility interval (MTVI) using the PTZ settings; assigning the camera in the plurality of cameras to a TVI or MTVI; creating a Directed Acyclic Graph DAG wherein each MTVI and TVI is a node; defining a sink node-source node pair for a camera; connecting a sink node to one final sink node; connecting a source node with outgoing edges to corresponding MTVIs and TVIs; connecting a sink node with incoming edges from corresponding MTVIs and TVIs; defining an upper bounding set for each source node corresponding to a camera that has an incoming edge from a sink node corresponding to a different camera; and applying dynamic programming to the DAG for determining a schedule. 8. The system as claimed in claim 7, wherein atomic TVIs are constructed comprising: determining for each of the plurality of cameras temporal intervals during which an object remains unobstructed and within a field of regard of the camera; and determining within the temporal intervals atomic intervals wherein vision task specific camera settings exist for an object within a field of regard. 9. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein atomic TVIs of different vision tasks are combined into a Multiple Tasks Visibility Interval (MTVI) for a camera. 10. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein all MTVIs for a camera are determined by applying a plane sweep algorithm. 11. The system as claimed in claim 7, for scheduling of one camera based on a determined set of MTVIs and atomic TVIs to optimize coverage of vision tasks, comprising: creating a DAG wherein each MTVI and TVI is a node; connecting a source node with outgoing edges to each MTVI and TVI; connecting a sink node with incoming edges from each MTVI and TVI; and applying dynamic programming to the DAG for determining a schedule. 12. The system as claimed in claim 7, for scheduling of a plurality of cameras based on a determined set of MTVIs and atomic TVIs to optimize coverage of vision tasks, comprising: applying a greedy algorithm by iteratively selecting an MTVI or TVI that covers a maximum number of uncovered vision tasks. 13. A method for processing a plurality of vision tasks on a plurality of objects by a plurality of cameras with pan tilt zoom (PTZ) settings in a vision system, comprising: for each of the plurality of objects determining the plurality of vision tasks to be performed on a processor; determining constraints a camera must meet for the processor to perform a vision task in the plurality of vision tasks on an object using an image from the camera; determining a vision task visibility interval (TVI) for a camera in the plurality of cameras meeting the constraints that allows the camera to be scheduled to a vision task in the plurality of vision tasks; assigning each of the plurality of vision tasks in the plurality of vision tasks to a camera in the plurality of cameras in accordance with the constraints of the vision task and a vision task visibility interval, wherein a camera is enabled to be assigned to more than one vision task; creating a Directed Acyclic Graph DAG wherein each MTVI and TVI is a node; defining a sink node-source node a for a camera; connecting a sink node to one final sink node; connecting a source node with outgoing edges to corresponding MTVIs and TVIs; connecting a sink node with incoming edges from corresponding MTVIs and TVIs; defining an upper bounding set for each source node corresponding to a camera that has an incoming edge from a sink node corresponding to a different camera; and applying dynamic programming to the DAG for determining a schedule. 