The present invention relates to a process for manufacturing a shaped article such as tubes, and hoses comprising processing a fiber-reinforced thermoplastic polymer in an extruder apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for fabricating a fiber-reinforced tubular extrudate having at least one or more bends, the process comprising the steps of: (i) extruding a fiber-reinforced thermoplastic composition to form a fiber-reinforced tubular extrudate, wherein said extruding takes place through a mandrel expansion extrusion die that includes an inner part movably positioned within an outer part and an annular die passage between the inner part and outer part, whereby the direction that the extrudate exits the die is controlled by a robotic handing unit attached to the die; (ii) during at least a portion of said step of extruding, positioning the inner part concentrically within said outer part to thereby produce concentricity in said annular die passage; (iii) during at least a portion of said step of extruding, offsetting at least one of the inner part and the outer part, relative to one another, to thereby produce eccentricity in said annular die passage and thereby produce a bend in the extrudate; and (iv) changing the direction that the extrudate exits the die by moving the die with the robotic handling unit in relation to the said step of offsetting to thereby produce a tubular extrudate having constant wall thickness on the inside and the outside of the bend, wherein the movement of the robotic handling unit is aligned with the off-setting of the die parts. 2. The process according to claim 1, wherein the fiber reinforced thermoplastic polymer is selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl chloride, polyethylene, polypropylene, polyvinyl acetate, polyester polymers, ABS copolymers, polyamides, thermoplastic elastomers, and elastomeric polymers. 3. The process according to claim 1, wherein the thermoplastic polymer is a thermoplastic elastomer. 4. The process of claim 3, wherein the thermoplastic elastomer is selected from polyurethane-polyester elastomers, segmented polyethers and polyesters, nylon block polymers and dynamically partially cured blends of polyolefin resin and mono-olefinic rubber, vulcanizable diene-containing elastomers, natural or synthetic rubbers, or mixtures thereof. 5. The process according to claim 3, wherein the thermoplastic elastomer is a fiber reinforced thermoplastic elastomer composition comprising (A) a thermoplastic rubber comprising (i) an at least partially cured rubber containing not more than 50 wt.-% of extractable rubber, where the amount of extractable rubber is determined by employing an extraction in cyclohexane for 48 hours at 23.degree. C.; and (ii) a thermoplastic polyolefin homopolymer or copolymer; (B) a functionalized polyolefin; (C) a crosslinking agent selected from resins prepared by reacting melamine, urea, benzoguanamine and/or glycoluril with formaldehyde, epoxy- and isocyanate resins, and (D) reinforcing fibers adhesion activated by an epoxy-resin selected from the group of glycerol-polyglycidylether, the reaction product of bisphenol A and epichlorohydrin and/or a blocked diisocyanate. 6. The process according to claim 5, wherein the amount of thermoplastic rubber (A) is from about 40 wt.-% to about 95 wt.-%, based upon the total amount of the thermoplastic rubber (A), the functionalized polyolefin (B), crosslinking agent (C) and the adhesion activated reinforcing fibers (D). 7. The process of claim 5, wherein the amount of functionalized polyolefin (B) is from about 0.3 wt.-% to about 15 wt.-%, based upon the total amount of the thermoplastic rubber (A), the functionalized polyolefin (B), the crosslinking agent (C) and the adhesion activated reinforcing fibers (D). 8. The process of claim 5, wherein the amount of crosslinking agent (C) is from about 0.3 wt.-% to about 15 wt.-%, based upon the total of the thermoplastic rubber (A), the functionalized polyolefin (B), crosslinking agent (C) and the adhesion activated reinforcing fibers (D). 9. The process of claim 5, wherein the amount of adhesion activated reinforcing fibers (D) is from about 1 wt.-% to about 30 wt.-%, based upon the total of the thermoplastic rubber (A), the functionalized polyolefin (B), the crosslinking agent (C) and the adhesion activated reinforcing fibers (D). 10. The process of claim 5, wherein the functionalized polyolefin (B) is selected from homopolymers or copolymers of C.sub.2 to C.sub.7 monoolefin monomers or copolymers thereof with (meth)acrylates or vinyl acetates having grafted thereon monomers selected from unsaturated carboxylic acids containing 3 to 20 carbon atoms, unsaturated dicarboxylic acids containing 4 to 10 carbon atoms or their derivatives or their anhydrides provided that they exist, epoxy-group containing esters of unsaturated carboxylic acids containing at least 6 carbon atoms, hydroxy-group containing esters of unsaturated carboxylic acids containing at least 5 carbon atoms, oxazolines, said unsaturated carboxylic acid and/or unsaturated dicarboxylic acid monomers being further functionalized with polyamines, and mixtures thereof. 11. The process of claim 5, wherein the reinforcing fibers (D) are selected from the group consisting of polyester, polyaramid, polyester-polyarylate, polyethylene naphthalate (PEN), polyvinylchloride, polypropylene, polyphenylenesulfide, polyetherimid, polyamide, polyimide or cellulose fibers, glass, steel, boron or carbon fibers, fibers of clay, talcum, wollastonite or hydrated magnesium silicate of the formula Mg.sub.4Si.sub.6O.sub.15(OH).sub.26H.sub.2O, and blends thereof. 12. The process of claim 5, wherein the adhesion activating diisocyanate is selected from the group consisting of caprolactam-blocked methylene-bis-(4-phenylisocyanate), 4,4'-methylene-bis-(phenyl-carbanilate), and mixtures thereof. 13. The process of claim 5, wherein the melamine resin (C) is selected from the group consisting of hexamethoxymethylmelamine resins, methylated melamine resins, mixed ether melamine resins, and butylated melamine resins. 14. The process of claim 5, wherein the thermoplastic rubber (A) comprises a fully cured rubber (i) containing not more than 5 wt.-% of extractable rubber, where the amount of extractable rubber is determined by employing an extraction in cyclohexane for 48 hours at 23.degree. C. 15. The process of claim 1, where said step of extruding is accomplished using an extruder barrel, and where the die includes an outlet orifice, and the process further comprises the step of arranging the outlet orifice in a manner that extrudate avoids contact with the extruder barrel. 16. The process of claim 1, further comprising the step of manipulating the extrudate by blow molding. 