An apparatus may include a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material through an outlet; and a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly, the robotic arm having at one end a gripper configured to pick up an element and deposit the element at a desired position relative to the extruded material. The element may be one of: a reinforcement member for a structure being constructed; a segment of a plumbing pipe; an electric network component; and a tile.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An automated construction system for constructing a three-dimensional structure, comprising: a nozzle assembly configured to extrude material; a nozzle assembly controller configured to cause the nozzle assembly to automatically extrude the material in stacked layers that collectively form the three-dimensional structure; a controllable robotic arm coupled to the nozzle assembly that is configured to move independently of the nozzle assembly; and a robotic arm controller configured to cause the controllable robotic arm to automatically install a plurality of discrete construction components within the extruded three-dimensional structure independent of movement of the nozzle assembly. 2. The automated construction system of claim 1 wherein the construction components include reinforcement staples and wherein the robotic arm and the robotic arm controller are configured to automatically install the reinforcement staples within the extruded three-dimensional structure. 3. The automated construction system of claim 1, wherein the construction components include a first tubular anchor having an external threaded portion and a second tubular anchor having an external threaded portion, and wherein the robotic arm and the robotic arm controller are configured to automatically install the first tubular anchor member within a portion of the extruded three-dimensional structure and screw the second tubular anchor onto the threaded portion of the first tubular anchor. 4. The automated construction system of claim 1, wherein the construction components include a first rigid vertical member, a second vertical member, and a rigid horizontal link, and wherein the robotic arm and the robotic arm controller are configured to automatically install the first rigid vertical member within a portion of the extruded three-dimensional structure, the second rigid vertical member within a portion of the extruded three-dimensional structure and spaced apart from the first rigid vertical member, and the rigid horizontal link between and so as to interlock the first and the second rigid vertical member. 5. The automated construction system of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional structure includes a wall and wherein the nozzle assembly and the nozzle assembly controller are configured to automatically construct one or more openings within the three-dimensional structure. 6. The automated construction system of claim 5, wherein the construction components include a plumbing pipe, and wherein the robotic arm and the robotic arm controller are configured to automatically install the plumbing pipe within at least one of the openings. 7. The automated construction system of claim 5, wherein the construction components include components of an electric network, and wherein the robotic arm and the robotic arm controller are configured to automatically install at least one of the network components within at least one of the openings and to interconnect the network components to each other. 8. The automated construction system of claim 7, wherein each network component comprises a plurality of conductive segments encapsulated within a block of nonconductive material. 9. The automated construction system of claim 1 wherein the construction components include one or more sensors configured to sense parameters relating to the three-dimensional structure and wherein the robotic arm and the robotic arm controller are configured to automatically install the sensors within the three-dimensional structure. 10. The automated construction system of claim 9, wherein at least one of the parameters is ambient temperature, ambient humidity, or structural deformation. 11. The automated construction system of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional structure includes a wall and a column. 