The present exemplary embodiment relates to motion control and planning algorithms to facilitate execution of a series of moves within a motion trajectory. In one example, a trajectory is specified as a sequence of one or more path segments. A velocity profile is calculated for each of the one or more path segments, wherein each velocity profile is divided into a blend-in region, a blend-out region and a remainder region. Each path segment is executed such that the blend-in region of its velocity profile overlaps only with the blend-out region of the previous profile.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for generating a motion system trajectory of an automated motion device with a processor having programming instructions stored on a computer readable medium for executing the method, comprising: specifying a trajectory as a sequence of path segments; calculating a velocity profile for each of the path segments; dividing each velocity profile into a blend-in region, a blend-out region and a remainder region; and executing each path segment by the automated motion device such that the blend-in region of its velocity profile overlaps only with the blend-out region of a previous velocity profile. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein each segment is one of a line, a circle, an arc, and defined via a polynomial. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the dynamics of each velocity profile associated with each path segment are dependent on parameters of a current, the previous and a next segment within the motion trajectory. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the only the blend-in portion of the current segment is processed before the next path segment is executed. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the blend-out region of the current segment is not calculated until a pending instruction is received. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the dividing each velocity profile into the blend-in and blend-out region depends on each segment's order within the sequence. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the path segments are executed sequentially. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the motion system trajectory is executed in one of a Cartesian coordinate system, a non-Cartesian coordinate system, a SCARA robot, a Delta robot, a cylindrical, a spherical, a polar, a picker, an articulated dependent, and an articulated independent joint space. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the motion system trajectory is based on N dimensions, where N is an integer that is greater than 1. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the blend-out region from a current move and the blend-in region from a successive move defines a blend radius. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein, the successive moves that utilize the blend radius are a blended motion sequence, which starts at any location and stops at any location within the motion system trajectory. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein: the blend radii of a first and a last segment within the blended motion sequence are less than or equal to one-hundred percent of a length of a smallest move length of the current move and the successive move for all the moves within the blended motion sequence; and the blend radii for the segments between the first and the last segment within the blended motion sequence are less than or equal to fifty percent of the length of the smallest move of the current move and the successive move for all the moves within the blended motion sequence. 13. A method for generating a motion system trajectory of an automated motion device, said method comprising: specifying a trajectory as a sequence of path segments; calculating a velocity profile for each of the path segments; dividing each velocity profile into a blend-in region, a blend-out region and a remainder region; and moving said automated motion device in accordance with each of said path segments by executing each path segment in the automated motion device such that the blend-in region of its velocity profile overlaps only with the blend-out region of a previous velocity profile. 