Embodiments of the present invention provide a media library controller that can communicate with multiple physical libraries that are physically separate from each other (i.e., that cannot pass media back and forth). The media library controller can maintain a virtualized aggregate media library representing the physical media libraries with which it is in communication. From the physical media libraries, the media library controller can establish a virtual media library and associate a host with the virtual media library. The virtual media library can represent the portions of a physical media library to which the host is allowed access.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controller for aggregating multiple physically separate media libraries, said controller comprising: a computer processor; a computer memory electronically connected to the computer processor, the computer memory storing a set of computer instructions executable by the computer processor to: communicate with at least a plurality of physical media libraries; control access to the plurality of physical media libraries; maintain one or more virtual media libraries, each virtual library representing a portion of an associated physical media library to which a host has access, wherein each physical media library comprises computer-readable media and one or more drives for performing operations on said computer-readable media; associate a first virtual media library with a first host, wherein the first virtual media library represents a first portion of a first physical media library to which the first host has access; associate a second virtual media library with a second host, wherein the second virtual library represents a second portion of the first physical media library to which the second host has access; store the associations between the first host and the first virtual media library and the second host and the second virtual media library; control access to the first portion of the first physical library represented by the first virtual media library based on the associations such that the first host is allowed access to the first virtual media library and the second host is not allowed access to the first virtual media library; and control access to the second portion of the first physical library represented by the second virtual media library based on the associations such that the first host is not allowed access to the second virtual media library and the second host is allowed access to the second virtual media library. 2. The controller of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to: determine if a received command from the first host is directed to the first portion of the first media library with which the first host is associated; if the received command is directed to the first portion of the first media library with which the first host is associated, forward the received command to the first media library; if the received command is not directed to the first portion of the first media library with which the first host is associated, reject the received command. 3. The controller of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to present said first virtual media library to said first host. 4. The controller of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to: receive a command from the first host to perform a data operation corresponding to the first virtual media library; map the command to the first physical media library; and forward the command to the first physical media library. 5. The controller of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions are executable to present the first virtual media library by presenting a virtual drive, a virtual robot and a plurality of virtual slots to the first host. 6. The controller of claim 1, wherein each virtual media library comprises a pool of slots corresponding to physical slots, wherein each of the pools in non-overlapping. 7. The controller of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to present a single virtual media library to multiple hosts. 8. The controller of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to maintain a virtualized aggregate media library. 9. A method of aggregating multiple media libraries comprising: maintaining access control of a plurality of physically separate media libraries by communicating with the plurality of physically separate media libraries, including a first physical media library accessible by a first host and a second host; associating the first host with a first virtual media library, wherein the first virtual media library represents a first portion of the first physical media library; associating a second host with a second virtual media library, wherein the second virtual media library represents a second portion of the first physical media library; receiving a data operation command; determining if the command is from the first host or the second host; if the received command is from the first host: determining whether the received command is directed to the first portion of the first physical media library and if the command is directed to the first portion of the first physical media library forwarding the received command to the first physical media library accessible by the first host while rejecting the received command otherwise; and if the received command is from the second host: determining whether the received command is directed to the second portion of the first physical media library and if the command is directed to the second portion of the first physical media library forwarding the received command to the first physical media library accessible by the second host while rejecting the received command otherwise. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising associating the first host with the first virtual media library by associating the first host with at least one drive, at least one robot and a pool of slots at the first physical media library. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the pool of slots is non overlapping. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising mapping the virtual drive to a physical drive, mapping the virtual robot to a physical robot and mapping the virtual slots to physical slots. 13. A system of aggregating media libraries comprising: a network; a first host in communication with said network, the first host configured to send data operation commands to a media library; a second host in communication with said network, the second host configured to send data operation commands to a media library; a first physical media library operable to carry out data operation commands; a second physical media library physically separate from the first media library operable to carry out data operation commands; a media library controller in communication with said network and said first and second physical media libraries, said controller comprising: a computer processor; one or more communications interfaces electronically connected to said computer processor operable to communicate with said network and said first and second physical media libraries; a computer memory electronically connected to the computer processor, the computer memory storing a set of computer instructions executable by the computer processor to: maintain access control to the first physical media library and the second physical media library; associate the first host with a first virtual media library, wherein the first virtual media library represents a first portion of the first physical media library; associate the second host with a second virtual media library, wherein the second virtual media library represents a second portion of the first physical media library; receive a data operation command; determine if the command is from the first host or the second host; if the received command is from the first host: determine whether the received command is directed to the first portion of the first physical media library and if the command is directed to the first portion of the first physical media library forwarding the received command to the first physical media library accessible by the first host while rejecting the received command otherwise; and if the received command is from the second host; determine whether the received command is directed to the second portion of the first physical media library and if the command is directed to the second portion of the first physical media library forwarding the received command to the first physical media library accessible by the second host while rejecting the received command otherwise. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to: present the first virtual media library to the host as a virtual drive, a virtual robot and a pool of virtual slots; and wherein said data operation command is based on the virtual media library. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to: map the virtual drive to a physical drive; map the virtual robot to a physical robot; map the pool of virtual slots to a set of physical slots; and translate the data operation command into a format usable by the first physical media library. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to maintain a virtualized aggregate media library representing at least the first media library and the second media library. 