The invention is directed to manipulator assembly (2) for holding and manipulating a surgical instrument (14) in a telerobotic system. The assembly comprises a base (6) fixable by passive or power driven positioning devices to a surface, such as an operating table, and an instrument holder (4) movably mounted on the base. The instrument holder comprises a chassis (6) and an instrument support (70) movably mounted on the body and having an interface engageable with the surgical instrument to releasably mount the instrument to the instrument holder. A drive assembly (7) is operatively coupled to the instrument holder for providing the instrument with at least two degrees of freedom. The instrument holder is separable from the base and the drive assembly so that the holder can be sterilized. The assembly further includes a force sensing element (52) mounted distal to the holder and the drive assembly for detecting forces exerted on the surgical instrument and providing feedback to the surgeon. The assembly is attached to a remote center positioner (300) for constraining the instrument to rotate a point coincident with the entry incision and an inclinometer (350) for preventing gravitational forces acting on the system's mechanisms from being felt by the surgeon.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manipulator assembly for holding and manipulating a surgical instrument, the assembly comprising: a surgical instrument; an instrument holder having an interface engageable with the surgical instrument to releasably mount the instrument to the instrument holder; a base coupled to a positioning device, the instrument holder movably mounted on the base; and a force sensing element mounted on the holder for detecting forces exerted on the surgical instrument and providing force feedback to a user of the manipulator assembly. 2. The assembly of claim 1, the surgical instrument comprising an end effector, the assembly further comprising an actuator releasably coupled to a shaft of the surgical instrument for actuating the end effector of the surgical instrument. 3. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a device for constraining movement of said instrument about a desired spherical center of rotation at a desired location along said instrument. 4. The assembly of claim 1, the device for constraining movement comprising: a first linkage pivotally mounted on said base for rotation about an axis, said instrument holder holding said instrument in a position so that the desired remote center of spherical rotation along the instrument intersects said axis; and a second linkage connected to said instrument holder for moving said instrument holder in a parallel-plane relationship to said second linkage, said second linkage being pivotally connected to said first linkage so that said second linkage remains parallel to said axis and said first linkage remains parallel to the instrument; wherein said first and second linkages constrain movement of said instrument, such that said desired location on said instrument remains fixed at said spherical center of rotation. 5. The assembly of claim 1, the positioning device comprising a passive positioning device. 6. The assembly of claim 1, the positioning device comprising a power driven positioning device. 7. The assembly of claim 1, the base comprising first and second spaced support shafts and said instrument holder comprising first and second mounts slidably mounted to the first and second support shafts, respectively. 8. The assembly of claim 1, the assembly further comprising a gas sealing trocar sleeve having a distal end configured for introduction through a percutaneous penetration in a patient, said trocar sleeve being mounted to said base distal to said instrument holder, said trocar sleeve having an axial passage for receiving a shaft of the instrument and for providing an access port into the patient. 9. The assembly of claim 1, the surgical instrument comprising a cannula configured to be insertable through a percutaneous incision in the body of a patient during a medical procedure, the cannula comprising an axial passage for supporting and receiving the elongate member therethrough so that the end effector is disposed adjacent a target site within the body of the patient. 10. The assembly of claim 1, the surgical instrument comprising: an elongate shaft having a proximal portion, a distal portion, an inner lumen, and at least one axially extending slot; an end effector disposed adjacent the distal portion of the elongate shaft; and an actuator assembly comprising a linkage disposed within the inner lumen and a movable actuator pin laterally extending from the linkage and extending through the axially extending slot to releasably couple the actuator assembly to a driver of the instrument holder. 11. A method of performing a surgical procedure comprising: releasably coupling a surgical instrument to a manipulator assembly comprising a plurality of linkages and joints; operatively coupling at least one moveable actuator element of said surgical instrument with a driver on said manipulator assembly; introducing a distal portion of said surgical instrument through a percutaneous penetration into the patient, said distal portion comprising an end effector; articulating said end effector of said surgical instrument relative to said proximal portion and within said patient's body; actuating said end effector by displacing said at least one moveable actuator element; sensing forces exerted on the surgical instrument; and transmitting feedback signals to an input device based on the sensed forces on the surgical instrument. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising constraining movement of said instrument about a desired spherical center of rotation at a desired location along said instrument. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein articulating said end effector is achieved by inputting commands through a control console comprising at least one control handle. 14. The method of claim 11, the actuating said end effector comprising opening and closing jaws of the end effector. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising controlling movement of the surgical instrument with an input control device. 16. The method of claim 11, further comprising rotating the surgical instrument about a longitudinal axis of the manipulator assembly. 