A method of operating a surgical system. The method includes obtaining a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan in which magnetic resonance (MR) visible targets are located; registering a robotic arm to the MRI scan using a digitizing tool, the robotic arm including: multiple joints and multiple degrees of freedom; an MR-compatible structural material; multiple MR-compatible joint motors; multiple MR-compatible joint encoders; and an end effector holding an MR-compatible surgical tool having a tool tip; and displaying a location of the tool tip relative to an image from the MRI scan.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of operating a surgical system, comprising: obtaining a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan in which magnetic resonance (MR) visible targets are located; registering positional data for a robotic arm to the MRI scan using a digitizing tool, the robotic arm configured as a yaw plane manipulator and including: multiple joints and multiple degrees of freedom, the multiple joints including a first yaw joint, a second yaw joint and a third yaw joint, the yaw joints operatively linked by a plurality of roll joints; an MR-compatible structural material; multiple MR-compatible joint motors; multiple MR-compatible joint encoders; and an end effector holding an MR-compatible surgical tool having a tool tip; and displaying a location of at least the tool tip relative to an image from the MRI scan. 2. The method of claim 1, where the robotic arm has six degrees of freedom. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: driving the MR-compatible joint motors based on input from an operator that is filtered to remove hand tremor. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: driving the MR-compatible joint motors based on input from an operator that is scaled. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: driving the MR-compatible joint motors based on input from an operator that is scaled and that is filtered to remove hand tremor. 6. The method of claim 1, where the registering further comprises: registering positional data for a second robotic arm to the MRI scan using a digitizing tool, the second robotic arm configured as a yaw plane manipulator and including: multiple joints and multiple degrees of freedom, the multiple joints of the second robotic arm including a first yaw joint, a second yaw joint and a third yaw joint, the yaw joints of the second robotic arm operatively linked by a plurality of roll joints; an MR-compatible structural material; multiple MR-compatible joint motors; multiple MR-compatible joint encoders; and a second end effector holding a second MR-compatible surgical tool having a tool tip. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing an updated MRI scan in which at least the tool tip is located. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: displaying an updated location of at least the tool tip based on the updated MRI scan. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the multiple joints comprise a first roll joint coupled to the first yaw joint and the second yaw joint, and a second roll joint coupled to the second yaw joint and the third yaw joint. 10. A method of using a surgical tool, comprising: receiving input from a master hand controller; and driving a robotic arm based on the input received from the master hand controller, the robotic arm configured as a yaw plane manipulator and including: multiple joints and multiple degrees of freedom, the multiple joints including a first, second and third yaw joint, the yaw joints operatively linked by a plurality of roll joints; an MR-compatible structural material; multiple MR-compatible joint motors; multiple MR-compatible joint encoders; and an end effector holding a surgical tool. 11. The method of claim 10, where the surgical tool comprises bipolar forceps. 12. The method of claim 10, where the surgical tool comprises a suction tool. 13. The method of claim 10, where the surgical tool comprises a micro-dissection tool. 14. The method of claim 10, where the surgical tool comprises micro-scissors. 15. The method of claim 10, where the driving comprises driving the robotic arm based on scaling the input and filtering the input to remove hand tremor. 16. The method of claim 10, where the surgical tool has a tool tip, and the method further comprises: displaying a location of at least the tool tip relative to an image from a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan, where the location of the tool tip relative to the image from the MRI scan is determined based on positional data for the robotic arm that has been registered to the MRI scan using a digitizing tool. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: performing an updated MRI scan in which at least the tool tip is located. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: calibrating the driving of the robotic arm against a position of the tool tip determined based on the updated MRI scan. 19. The method of claim 10, wherein the multiple joints comprise a first roll joint coupled to the first yaw joint and the second yaw joint, and a second roll joint coupled to the second yaw joint and the third yaw joint. 20. A method of operating a surgical system comprising one or more robotic arms, the method comprising: obtaining a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan in which magnetic resonance (MR) visible targets are located; registering positional data for a robotic arm to the MRI scan using a digitizing tool, the robotic arm configured as a yaw plane manipulator and including: multiple joints and multiple degrees of freedom, the multiple joints including a first yaw joint, a second yaw joint and a third yaw joint, the yaw joints operatively linked by a plurality of roll joints; an MR-compatible structural material; multiple MR-compatible joint motors; multiple MR-compatible joint encoders; and an end effector configured for holding an MR-compatible surgical tool; determining a location of the surgical tool relative to an MR image based on the positional data and signals from the multiple MR-compatible joint encoders; and displaying at least a portion of the surgical tool relative to the MR image. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising: driving the MR-compatible joint motors based on input from an operator. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising filtering the input to reduce effects of hand tremor. 23. The method of claim 21, further comprising scaling the input. 24. The method of claim 21, further comprising: performing an updated MRI scan in which at least a portion of the surgical tool is located. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising: calibrating the driving of the robotic arm against a position of at least a portion of the surgical tool determined based on the updated MRI scan. 26. The method of claim 24, further comprising: displaying at least a portion of the surgical tool based on the updated MRI scan. 27. The method of claim 20, wherein the robotic arm has six degrees of freedom. 28. The method of claim 20, wherein the multiple joints comprise a first roll joint coupled to the first yaw joint and the second yaw joint, and a second roll joint coupled to the second yaw joint and the third yaw joint. 29. A method of operating a surgical system comprising one or more robotic arms, the method comprising: obtaining a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan in which magnetic resonance (MR) visible targets are located; registering positional data for a robotic arm to the MRI scan, the robotic arm configured as a yaw plane manipulator and including: multiple joints and multiple degrees of freedom, the multiple joints including a first yaw joint, a second yaw joint and a third yaw joint, the yaw joints operatively linked by a plurality of roll joints; an MR-compatible structural material; multiple MR-compatible joint motors; multiple MR-compatible joint encoders; and an end effector configured for holding an MR-compatible surgical tool; determining a location of the surgical tool relative to an MR image based on the positional data and signals from the multiple MR-compatible joint encoders; and displaying at least a portion of the surgical tool relative to the MR image. 30. The method of claim 29, further comprising: driving the MR-compatible joint motors based on input from an operator. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein the robotic arm has six degrees of freedom. 32. The method of claim 29, wherein the multiple joints comprise a first roll joint coupled to the first yaw joint and the second yaw joint, and a second roll joint coupled to the second yaw joint and the third yaw joint. 