A method of rehabilitation comprising: providing a first actuator that includes a movement mechanism capable of applying a force that interacts with a motion of a patient's limb in a volume of at least 30 cm in diameter, in at least three degrees of freedom of motion of the actuator and capable of preventing substantial motion in any point in any direction in said volume; coupling said first actuator to a first point on a human body; providing a second actuator that includes a movement mechanism capable of applying a force that interacts with a motion of a patient's limb in a volume of at least 30 cm in diameter, in at least three degrees of freedom of motion of the actuator and capable of preventing substantial motion in any point in any direction in said volume; coupling said second actuator to a second point on a human body; and applying different forces to said points using said actuators.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A rehabilitation device, comprising: an actuator that includes a movement mechanism capable of applying a force that interacts with a motion along a rehabilitation exercise trajectory of a patient's limb in a volume of at least 30 cm in diameter and capable of preventing substantial motion in any point in any direction in said volume; a support for a patient; a controller adapted to adjust the rehabilitation exercise trajectory according to the relative positions of said actuator and at least one of said patient and said support; and, a compliance mechanism adapted to provide resistance to motion of said actuator away from said trajectory. 2. A device according to claim 1, further comprising a coupler which couples said actuator to a point on a human body, wherein said controller drives said actuator to apply a force vector to said point, said force including a rotation. 3. A device according to claim 1, wherein said force vector includes at least two rotations directions relative to the force vector. 4. A device according to claim 1, comprising a second actuator driven by said controller to apply a second force to at least a second point on said body, simultaneously with said force. 5. A device according to claim 1, comprising: a coupler for coupling said actuator to a first point on a human body; a second actuator that includes a movement mechanism capable of applying a force that interacts with a motion of a patient's limb in a volume of at least 30 cm in diameter, in at least three degrees of freedom of motion of the actuator and capable of preventing substantial motion in any point in any direction in said volume; a coupler for coupling said second actuator to a second point on a human body; and wherein said controller drives said actuators to apply different forces to said points using said actuators. 6. A device according to claim 5, wherein said first actuator applies a rotation. 7. A device according to claim 5, wherein said different points are on a same limb. 8. A device according to claim 5, wherein said different points are on different limbs. 9. A device according to claim 8, wherein said controller is configured to exercise the two limbs in concert. 10. A device according to claim 8, wherein said controller is configured for copying motion from one limb to the other limb. 11. A device according to claim 1 configured to control a position of at least a second point on the limb; and wherein said controller is configured to reconstruct a value of a bending of at least one joint of said organ from said motion and said position. 12. A device according to claim 1, comprising a distance sensor for determining said relative positions. 13. A device according to claim 1, comprising an imaging sensor for determining said relative positions. 14. A device according to claim 1, wherein said controller relates to the relative placement of said patient and said actuator. 15. A device according to claim 1, wherein said controller assumes the relative positions differ only in two dimensions. 16. A device according to claim 1, comprising a pointer which indicates a desired patient placement. 17. A device according to claim 1, wherein said controller is configured to use said actuator to determine said relative placement. 18. A device according to claim 1, wherein said controller is configured to use said actuator to indicate a desired relative placement. 19. A device according to claim 1, wherein said controller is configured to adjust said exercise on the fly, during an exercise session and in response to patient movement. 20. A rehabilitation device according to claim 1, comprising: a memory storing therein a correspondence between exercises and payment codes; wherein said controller is adapted to generate a report including a code from said memory corresponding to said exercise. 21. A rehabilitation device according to claim 1, further comprising: at least one sensor associated with the actuator and measuring said motion; wherein the controller analyses said measured motion and generates a measure of quality of motion and modifies a rehabilitation plan responsive to said quality of motion measure. 22. A device according to claim 21, wherein the controller modifies a selection of future exercises according to a measured quality of motion. 23. A device according to claim 21, wherein the controller modifies a selection of parameters for future exercises according to a measured quality of motion. 24. A device according to claim 21, wherein the quality of motion measure used is defined as the degree of matching to a 2/3 power law. 25. A device according to claim 1, wherein said controller is configured to: cause a person to carry out at least one exercise; estimate a mental state of said person from a result of said at least one exercise; and automatically select at least one second exercise according to said estimation. 26. A device according to claim 25, wherein said controller estimates a mental state using a comparing of performance between two exercises, one or which is expected to elicit a higher compliance. 27. A device according to claim 25, wherein said controller estimates a mental step using a comparing of performance within an exercise, using the maximum ability of the patient as a base line against which variation can be determined. 28. A device according to claim 25, wherein said estimating is automatic. 29. A device according to claim 1, wherein said controller is configured to: determine a patient's ability to perform a motor task; determine a patient's ability to perform a non-motor task; and automatically select an exercise or parameters of an exercise for the patient according to said determinations. 30. A device according to claim 29, wherein said controller is configured to select using a matching of an instruction or feedback modality to a perceptive ability. 31. A device according to claim 29, wherein said controller is configured to selected using a matching of an instruction or feedback modality to a cognitive ability. 32. A device according to claim 29, wherein said controller is configured to select an exercise or series of exercises designed to rehabilitate both of said motor and said non-motor abilities. 33. A device according to claim 29, wherein said exercise rehabilitates visual-motor coordination. 34. A device according to claim 1, wherein said actuator includes a tip which said actuator moves to a spatial location and wherein said controller is configured to instruct a patient to apply force against said tip, wherein said actuator provides a compliant resistance to said force. 35. A device according to claim 34, wherein said controller is configured to select the resistance according to the spatial location. 36. A device according to claim 1, wherein said controller is configured to adjust a force applied during said exercise, based on one or more patient characteristics. 37. A device according to claim 1, wherein the compliance mechanism comprises at least one brake. 38. A device according to claim 1, wherein the compliance mechanism comprises at least one resilient element. 39. A device according to claim 1, wherein the compliance mechanism is adapted to have variable compliance for at least one of different rehabilitation exercises or within a single rehabilitation exercise. 