A method for transferring airplanes and an unmanned airplane transfer system. The airplane transferring system includes: receiving a transfer signal responsive of a movement of an airplane control component; and transferring an airplane, by an unmanned airplane transfer system, in response to the transfer signal.
Claims We claim: 1. An unmanned airplane transfer system, comprising: a transfer module comprising at least one motor and being configured thereby to transfer an airplane, said airplane comprising a control component configured to provide commands; and a controller being coupled to the transfer module and configured to receive a transfer signal that is responsive to one or more of said commands, and to control the transfer module in response to the transfer signal, a landing gear holder configured to firmly grip a nose landing gear of the airplane, said landing gear holder pivotally coupled to a structural element of the unmanned airplane transfer system; wherein the transfer signal is responsive to steering induced movement of the landing gear holder, wherein the controller is configured to control the transfer module steering in response to said transfer signal, and wherein at least one of said commands is by itself capable of controlling the airplane to be steered. 2. The system according to claim 1 further comprising a sensor configured to sense a steering control induced movement of a nose landing gear of the airplane and, in response, to provide the transfer signal to the controller, said transfer signal related to steering the transfer module. 3. The system according to claim 1 wherein at least one command among the commands provided via the airplane control component is configured to control a velocity of the airplane. 4. The system according to claim 1 wherein the transfer module comprises multiple independently controlled wheels. 5. The system according to claim 1 further comprising an audio interface configured to receive modulated signals representative of one or more commands among said commands provided via the control component and, in response, to provide the transfer signal to the controller. 6. The system according to claim 1 further comprising one or more location sensors coupled to the controller, wherein the controller is configured to control the transfer module velocity in response to an indication of a location of the system obtained from the location sensors. 7. The system according to claim 1 wherein the system is configured to be aligned with a nose landing gear during rotational movements of the airplane. 8. The system according to claim 1 wherein the controller is configured to receive skid steering control signals and velocity control signals and, in response, to control steering and velocity of the transfer module, and wherein the transfer module is configured to be aligned with a nose landing gear during rotational movements of the airplane. 9. The system according to claim 1 wherein at least one command among the commands provided via the control component is configured to control a velocity of the airplane. 10. The system according to claim 1 further comprising a sensor configured to sense a steering control induced movement of a nose landing gear of the airplane and, in response, to provide the transfer signal to the controller, said transfer signal related to steering the transfer module. 11. The system according to claim 1 wherein the controller is configured to receive skid steering control signals and velocity control signals and, in response, to control the transfer module, and wherein the transfer system is configured to be aligned with the nose landing gear during rotational movements of the airplane. 12. The system according to claim 1 further comprising an RF interface configured to receive modulated signals representative of one or more commands provided via the control component and, in response, to provide the transfer signal to the controller. 13. The system according to claim 1 further comprising an RF interface configured to receive modulated signals representative of one or more commands provided via the airplane control component and, in response, to provide the transfer signal to the controller. 14. The system according to claim 1 further comprising one or more location sensors coupled to the controller, wherein the controller is configured to control the transfer module in response to indication of a location of the system obtained from the location sensors. 15. A method of using an unmanned airplane transfer system for transferring an airplane engaged to said transfer system, said airplane comprising a control component configured to provide commands, the method comprising: receiving by the unmanned transfer system a transfer signal responsive to one or more of said commands; and controlling the movement of said unmanned transfer system when transferring the airplane in response to said transfer signal, wherein at least one of said commands is by itself capable of controlling the airplane to be steered, wherein the unmanned transfer system comprises at least one motor involved in transferring the airplane, and wherein the transfer signal is responsive to steering control induced movements of a landing gear holder; said landing gear holder firmly grips a nose landing gear of the airplane and is pivotally coupled to a structural element of the unmanned airplane transfer system. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein transferring comprises independently controlling at least two independently controlled wheels of the unmanned transfer system. 17. The method according to claim 15 wherein the transfer signal is generated by the unmanned airplane transfer system in response to one or more audio modulated signals representative of one or more commands among said commands provided via the control component. 18. The method according to claim 15 further comprising determining a location of the airplane and wherein a velocity of transferring is further responsive to the determined location. 19. The method according to claim 15 further comprising detecting an obstacle and altering a velocity and path of the transfer system responsive to a respective obstacle indication. 20. The method according to claim 15 wherein the transfer signal is responsive to, at least, steering induced movement of a nose landing gear of the airplane, and transferring the airplane is provided by applying skid steering and maintaining an alignment between the unmanned airplane transfer system and the nose landing gear of the airplane during rotational movements of the airplane. 21. The method according to claim 15 wherein the transfer signal is generated by the unmanned airplane transfer system in response to one or more RF modulated signals representative of one or more commands provided via the control component. 22. The method of claim 15 further comprising sensing the steering induced movement of a landing gear of the airplane and, in response, providing the transfer signal said transfer signal related to steering the transfer module. 23. The method according to claim 15 wherein at least one command among the commands provided via the control component is configured to control a velocity of the airplane. 