The present invention concerns a system for utilizing radio frequency signals to dynamically determine the location of a medical device throughout a procedure and to improve navigation of the medical device. For these purposes, a plurality of RF receivers are mounted at operative locations in the operating room and operate on the same clock signal. The system also utilizes a diagnostic medical image such as an MRI, and overlays the position feedback signal on the image. This allows, for example, a surgeon to pick a desired spot on the diagnostic image, and then cause a robotic arm driven device to be moved to that particular spot inside the human body.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A navigation system for invasive medical procedures, comprising: an RF steerable medical instrument that is mounted on an end of arm tool, the medical instrument being adapted to be inserted into a human body along an axis of insertion; at least one radio frequency (RF) transmitter affixed to a distal end and on a side of the medical instrument, said RF transmitter capable of emitting energy sufficient to ablate abutting tissue; a plurality of RF receivers that are adapted to receive RF signals emitted from the RF transmitter; a computational device that is operatively coupled to the plurality of RF receivers, the computational device being adapted to cause a visual image of a desired portion of a human body to be shown on a display and to overlay on the visual image an indication of the location of the medical instrument within the human body based on analysis of the information received from the RF receivers; and a robotic controller that is operatively coupled to the computational device and the end of arm tool, the controller configured to steer the medical instrument to desired locations within a human body by selectively activating the RF transmitter to emit energy in an amount sufficient to control the degree of deflection of the medical instrument lateral to the axis of insertion. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the medical instrument comprises a needle. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the medical instrument includes a beveled leading edge, the RF transmitter being located on the distal end of the medical instrument so that RF energy can be emitted therefrom which reduces a mechanical force needed to advance the medical instrument through tissue opposing the beveled edge of the medical instrument. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of RF receivers comprises three or more RF receivers. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computational device is adapted to receive information from the RF receivers in an iterative fashion. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computational device is adapted to receive information from the RF receiver in a dynamic fashion. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the computational device is adapted to allow a user to pick a desired location within a human body and to dynamically provide information to the controller to cause it to move the end of arm tool and medical instrument to the desired location. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the computation device comprises a personal computer. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the RF transmitter is located at a leading edge of the medical instrument. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the RF transmitter is operatively coupled to the computational device, and wherein the computational device causes the RF transmitter to emit RF signals at desired times. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein two or more RF transmitters are affixed to the medical instrument at desired locations thereof, the two or more RF transmitters being selectively energizable to steer the medical instrument in a desired direction. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein at least three RF transmitters are affixed to the medical instrument at desired locations thereof, the three RF transmitters being selectively energizable to steer the medical instrument in a desired direction. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the three RF transmitters are evenly radially distributed around the medical instrument. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the three RF transmitters are located at a distal end of the medical instrument. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein at least one of the three RF transmitters are located opposite a leading edge of the medical instrument. 