Analytical methods using hydrogen/deuterium exchange are provided which reduce or eliminate the back-exchange of deuterium for hydrogen. The methods, which are useful in protein and peptide mapping, include the steps of (a) providing a peptide or protein comprising a solvent accessible hydrogen; (b) exchanging the solvent accessible hydrogen for a deuterium; (c) separating the peptide or protein with supercritical fluid chromatography; and (d) analyzing by mass spectrometry the mass of the separated peptide or protein. Supercritical fluid chromatography enables the observation of fast exchanging hydrogen atoms missed using conventional liquid chromatography methods.
Claims We claim: 1. An analytical method using hydrogen/deuterium exchange, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a protein or peptide, which protein or peptide comprises at least one solvent accessible hydrogen; (b) exchanging the at least one solvent accessible hydrogen for at least one deuterium to make a deuterated protein or peptide; (c) using supercritical fluid chromatography to separate the deuterated protein or peptide; and (d) analyzing the mass of the separated protein or peptide, wherein the supercritical fluid chromatography utilizes a mobile phase that comprises a gas at a subcritical or state of enhanced fluidity effective for use as the mobile phase of supercritical fluid chromatography. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the gas at a subcritical or state of enhanced fluidity has a viscosity that is at least 95% of the viscosity of the same gas at a supercritical fluid state at the critical point. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of digesting the peptide or protein after step (b) and before step (c). 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of exchanging the at least one solvent accessible hydrogen for the at least one deuterium comprises exposing the peptide or protein to a deuterated buffer. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of using supercritical fluid chromatography to separate the deuterated peptide or protein is conducted at about 1.degree. C. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile phase comprises carbon dioxide. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the supercritical fluid chromatography utilizes a mobile phase modifier that comprises a polar or non-polar solvent. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of comprises acetonitrile, dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl formamide, tetrahydroforan, dimethyl acetamide, trichloroethane, acetone, ethanol, methanol, isopropanol, ethyl acetate, formic acid, water, and mixtures thereof. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of analyzing the mass of the separated peptide or protein comprises mass spectrometry. 10. An analytical method using hydrogen/deuterium exchange, comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining a protein or peptide, which protein or peptide comprises at least one solvent accessible hydrogen; (b) exposing the peptide or protein to a deuterated buffer solution to effect exchanging the at least one solvent accessible hydrogen for at least one deuterium, thereby making a deuterated protein or peptide; (c) mixing the deuterated protein or peptide with a peptidase to produce a digested deuterated protein or peptide; (d) using supercritical fluid chromatography to separate the digested deuterated protein or peptide; and (e) using mass spectrometry to analyze the mass of the separated protein or peptide obtained from step (d), wherein the supercritical fluid chromatography utilizes a mobile phase that comprises a gas at a subcritical or state of enhanced fluidity effective for use as the mobile phase of supercritical fluid chromatography. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the gas at a subcritical or state of enhanced fluidity has a viscosity that is at least 95% of the viscosity of the same gas at a supercritical fluid state at the critical point. 12. A method of protein or peptide mapping comprising using the results of the analytical method of claim 1 to determine structural properties of a peptide or protein. 13. A method of protein or peptide mapping comprising using the results of the analytical method of claim 10 to determine structural properties of a peptide or protein. 14. A method of protein or peptide mapping comprising: (a) selecting a non-deuterated protein or complex to be mapped, which protein or complex comprises at least one solvent accessible hydrogen; (b) exchanging the at least one solvent accessible hydrogen for at least one deuterium to make a deuterated protein or peptide; (c) using supercritical fluid chromatography to separate the deuterated protein or peptide; (d) analyzing the mass of the separated protein or peptide; and (e) comparing mass information from the non-deuterated protein or complex with mass information from the separated protein or peptide to yield information about the structure of the protein or complex, wherein the supercritical fluid chromatography utilizes a mobile phase that comprises a gas at a subcritical or state of enhanced fluidity effective for use as the mobile phase of supercritical fluid chromatography. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the gas at a subcritical or state of enhanced fluidity has a viscosity that is at least 95% of the viscosity of the same gas at a supercritical fluid state at the critical point. 