Producing a scaled multiple parallax compound lens is accomplished by providing an insect eye having multiple ommitidia and creating a polymer mold of the insect eye. A casting is then created from the polymer mold with an expandable polymer mold. A second casting is then created from the second polymer mold. Duplication of the process can be accomplished for further scaling up of the compound lens with the final casting created using a durable polymer having appropriate optical properties for the lens.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for size scaling of surface features comprising the steps of: creating a mold of a set of surface features; creating a casting of the surface feature set using the mold, wherein the casting is a solvent expandable polymer; expanding the casting by a factor of at least three by exposure to a solvent. 2. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein the casting is created with Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS). 3. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein the mold is created with perfluoronated polyether (PFPE). 4. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein the solvent is selected from the set of acetone, pyridine and 1-propanol. 5. A method as defined in claim 1 further comprising the additional steps of: creating a second mold of the expanded casting; creating a second casting using the second mold; and expanding the second casting by a factor of at least 3. 6. A method as defined in claim 5 wherein the additional steps are conducted for a third time to produce a third casting. 7. A method as defined in claim 6 wherein the third casting employs polycarbonate. 8. A method as defined in claim 1 further comprising the steps of exposing the casting to the solvent in controlled amounts and for limited times to absorb fluid sufficient to swell the casting to the desired size once solvent concentration gradients in the casting have disappeared. 9. A method as defined in claim 8 wherein the step of exposing the casting to the solvent further comprises the steps of: removing the casting from the solvent; placing the casting in a neutral solution while the solvent gradients equilibrate. 10. A method as defined in claim 9 wherein the step of placing the casting in a neutral solvent comprises placing the casting in a selected one of the set of water, methanol or glycerol. 11. A method as defined in claim 8 wherein the solvent is selected from the set of Diisopropylamine, chloroform, Tetrahydrofuran or Ether. 12. A replica casting having expanded size features comprising: a casting formed from a polymer mold created from a solvent expanded polymer casting drawn from a primary mold of an original feature set. 13. A replica casting as defined in 12 wherein the polymer mold is PFPE. 14. A replica casting as defined in claim 13 wherein the solvent expanded polymer casting is PDMS. 15. A replica casting as defined in claim 12 wherein the casting is Polycarbonate. 