The present invention generally relates to an automated solar cell electrical connection device that is positioned within an automated solar cell fabrication system. The automated solar cell electrical connection device includes a module and process for automatically attaching a junction box to a composite solar cell structure during the fabrication of a completed solar cell device. The automated solar cell electrical connection module may include a composite solar cell structure conveyor for positioning the composite solar cell structure, an adhesive dispense module for applying adhesive to the junction box, a flux dispenser for applying flux to electrical connection tabs in the junction box, a vision system for locating features on the composite solar cell structure, a robot for positioning the junction box onto the composite solar cell structure, a heating element to make electrical connections between the junction box and the solar cell device, a potting material dispensing assembly for dispensing potting material into the junction box, and a system controller for controlling the functions of the module.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A solar cell electrical connection module, comprising: a receiving region configured to receive a junction box; a robotic arm disposed adjacent the receiving region and configured to hold and manipulate the junction box; an adhesive dispense assembly configured to apply an adhesive to a sealant surface of the junction box; a vision system configured to scan a solar cell device and locate positional features on the solar cell device; a robotic gripper having gripping elements configured to pick up, manipulate, and place the junction box assembly onto the solar cell device; a heating element configured to create an electrical connection between the junction box and the solar cell device; and a system controller configured to receive signals describing the location of the positional features from the vision system and send command signals based on the received signals to position the robotic gripper and the heating element using an actuator. 2. The module of claim 1, further comprising a solar cell device conveyor disposed beneath the robotic gripper configured to move the solar cell device in a first direction. 3. The module of claim 2, wherein the actuator is attached to the robotic gripper and configured to move the robotic gripper in a second direction, wherein the second direction is substantially perpendicular to the first direction. 4. The module of claim 3, further comprising a flux dispensing assembly having a nozzle configured to apply flux to electrical connection tabs on the junction box. 5. The module of claim 3, further comprising a potting material dispense assembly having a nozzle configured to apply a polymeric material around the electrical connection. 6. The module of claim 5, wherein the actuator is attached to the vision system, and wherein the actuator is attached to the potting dispense assembly. 7. The module of claim 6, further comprising a junction box conveyor disposed adjacent the receiving region and configured to deliver the junction box from an outside source to the receiving region. 8. The module of claim 7, wherein adhesive dispense assembly comprises a nozzle disposed adjacent the robotic arm, and wherein the nozzle is positioned to apply the adhesive to the junction box while the robotic arm holds the junction box. 9. The module of claim 8, wherein the system controller is configured to send signals to the actuator to position the robotic gripper with respect to the positional features of the solar cell device. 