Apparatus and methods are disclosed that are useful for robotic gantry systems that are lightweight while at the same time offering rigidity or stiffness for implementation in Contour Crafting construction and material delivery techniques. The present disclosure is directed to robotic gantry system and material transport apparatus that use of very light structural members that have sufficient compressive strength, but which may otherwise be weak in the presence of bending forces, in conjunction with cables that provide stiffness against bending. Use of such cables provides needed tension while at the same time allowing the robotic gantry system to be very light compared to solid structures, e.g., those with I-beams, etc. Material delivery systems including passive articulated arms are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic gantry system comprising: first and second columns each slidably riding a substantially horizontal rail; a bridge slidably having a substantially horizontal longitudinal axis connected to the first and second columns so as to permit sliding of the bridge vertically with respect to the columns; a cable support extending upwardly from each end of the bridge; an anchor structure affixed to and extending upwardly from approximately the center of the bridge; at least one cable connected between each cable support structure at a location on each cable support that is above an end of the bridge and to the anchor structure at a location above the approximate center of the bridge, the cable being configured to cooperate with the anchor structure to substantially prevent twisting of the bridge along the substantially horizontal longitudinal axis of the bridge; and a nozzle assembly slidably connected to the bridge and configured to extrude cementitious material. 2. The robotic gantry system of claim 1 further comprising a nozzle assembly slidably connected to the bridge and configured to extrude cementitious material. 3. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the nozzle assembly comprises a nozzle connected to a nozzle platform. 4. The robotic gantry system of claim 3, further comprising a counter weight coupled to the nozzle platform. 5. The robotic gantry system of claim 1, including two cables providing resistance against bending of the bridge in a horizontal direction perpendicular to the length of the bridge; 6. The robotic gantry system of claim 1, including two or more cables that prevent the bridge from bending in a vertical direction. 7. The robotic gantry system of claim 1, including a plurality of cables configured and arranged to compensate for tensile forces. 8. The robotic gantry system of claim 1 wherein the at least one cable includes two cables attached to each cable support structure at two locations on the cable support structure that are horizontally spaced-apart from one another. 9. The robotic gantry system of claim 8 wherein the two cables cross at the approximate location at which they attach to the anchor structure. 10. The robotic gantry system of claim 9 wherein the two cables are each attached to the cable support structure at a location above an end of the bridge. 11. The robotic gantry system of claim 9 wherein the two cables are oriented so as to form an "X" when looking downward on the cables from above the cables. 12. The robotic gantry system of claim 1 comprising: a nozzle assembly slidably connected to the bridge and configured to extrude cementitious material; and a counter-mass configured to move horizontally on the bridge always in the opposite direction of the nozzle assembly so as to minimize generation of side forces upon movement of the nozzle assembly. 13. The robotic gantry system of claim 1 wherein the anchor structure has a triangular configuration. 14. The robotic gantry system of claim 13 wherein the base of the triangular anchor structure is attached to the bridge, the triangular anchor structure is oriented in a substantially vertical plane, and the opposing corner of the triangular anchor structure is attached to the at least one cable. 15. A robotic gantry system comprising: first and second columns each slidably riding a substantially horizontal rail; a bridge slidably connected to the first and second columns so as to permit sliding of the bridge vertically with respect to the columns; a cable support structure having an arm configuration extending upwardly from each end of the bridge; an anchor structure affixed to and extending upwardly from approximately the center of the bridge; at least one cable connected between each cable support structure at a location on each cable support that is above an end of the bridge and to the anchor structure at a location above the approximate center of the bridge; and at least one other cable connected between each cable support structure at a location on each cable support that is above an end of the bridge and to the anchor structure at a location above the approximate center of the bridge, wherein the at least one cable and the at least one other cable crosses at a location between their ends; and a nozzle assembly slidably connected to the bridge and configured to extrude cementitious material. 16. The robotic gantry system of claim 15 wherein the cables cross one another at a point approximately at the center of the bridge. 17. The robotic gantry system of claim 15 wherein each cable support structure includes a substantially-rectangular frame. 