Apparatus in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention includes a data storage cartridge and/or a receiver configured to receive the cartridge in facilitation of data transfer to and/or from the cartridge. The cartridge and the receiver each include respective connector portions configured to connect when the cartridge is inserted into the receiver. The cartridge and/or the receiver also include guide features configured to facilitate alignment of the connector portions for connection as the cartridge is inserted into the receiver.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A receiver comprising: a chassis; a receiver connector portion supported by the chassis; an elongated guide member extending from the chassis, wherein the guide member comprises: a rear receiver guide feature that is substantially proximate the chassis; and, a front receiver guide feature that is distal from the chassis, wherein: the receiver is configured to receive a cartridge; the cartridge defines a front cartridge guide feature configured to engage the rear receiver guide feature; and, the cartridge defines a rear cartridge guide feature configured to engage the front receiver guide feature; and, the rear receiver guide feature includes a bulge region that is wider than the front receiver guide feature. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, and wherein: the guide member is substantially a male guide member; the rear receiver guide feature is substantially a bulge region defined on the guide member; and, the front receiver guide feature is substantially a tip region defined on the guide member. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, and wherein: the tip region is substantially elongated and has a substantially constant width; and, the bulge region is wider than the tip region. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, and wherein: the front cartridge guide feature is substantially a front bottleneck region; the rear cartridge guide feature is substantially a rear bottleneck region; the front receiver guide feature is configured to engage the rear cartridge guide feature with a substantially continuous snug fit; and, the rear receiver guide feature is configured to engage the front cartridge guide feature with a substantially momentary snug fit. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, and wherein: the front receiver guide feature is configured to engage the rear cartridge guide feature with a substantially continuous snug fit; and, the rear receiver guide feature is configured to engage the front cartridge guide feature with a substantially momentary snug fit. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein: the receiver further comprises a receiver reference feature supported by the chassis; and, the cartridge defines a cartridge reference feature which is configured to matingly engage the receiver reference feature when the cartridge is received into the receiver. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, and wherein: the receiver reference feature is substantially a reference pin extending from the chassis; and, the cartridge reference feature is substantially a reference hole. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, and wherein the receiver comprises a pair of substantially elongated guide members extending from the chassis in substantially parallel, spaced-apart, juxtaposed relation to one another, wherein each guide member comprises: a rear receiver guide feature that is substantially proximate the chassis; and, a front receiver guide feature that is distal from the chassis. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, and wherein the cartridge is configured to be substantially between the pair of guide members when received into the receiver. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, and wherein: each front receiver guide feature is substantially an elongated tip region; and, each rear receiver guide feature is substantially a bulge region that is wider than the tip region. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, and wherein each guide member is substantially a flat blade. 