The invention provides, in one embodiment, a device for performing scrub testing on a plurality of samples simultaneously, including a plurality of scrubbing devices. A stage is provided which positions the plurality of samples in contact with the plurality of scrubbing devices. The scrubbing devices can individually be provided with different weights to produce different forces on the samples. A motion producing device produces one or both of linear and rotational motion between the brushes and the samples. The scrubbing devices are held in the stage so as move freely vertically.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for performing testing on a plurality of samples simultaneously, comprising: a scrubbing device array including a plurality of scrubbing devices; a sample stage for holding the plurality of samples in contact with the plurality of scrubbing devices; and a motion producing device for producing non-linear motion of the sample stage while the scrubbing device array is maintained in a fixed position, wherein the non-linear motion of the sample stage produces non-linear motion between the plurality of scrubbing devices and the plurality of samples in contact therewith. 2. The device of claim 1, further including a mechanism for providing a predetermined force to a scrubbing device. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the mechanism includes one or more weights. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the motion producing device is a shaker table. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of scrubbing devices includes one or more of bristles, fabric or sheets of material, composite materials, plastic, rubber, blades, multi-blade devices, sandpaper, and abrasives incorporated onto or into a fabric. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of scrubbing devices includes a brush. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein each of the brushes has a generally rectangular or round cross sectional shape. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein each of the scrubbing devices is sized and shaped to have a contact area from about 5% to about 75% of an area of each of the plurality of samples. 9. The device of claim 1, further including a plurality of scrub device holders corresponding to the number of scrubbing devices. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of scrub device holders are adapted to be weighted. 11. The device of claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of scrub device holders are hollow for receiving one or more weights. 12. The device of claim 9, wherein the scrub device holders are held in the scrubbing device array and permitted to move vertically. 13. The device of claim 1, further includes a mechanism for delivering scrubbing media to each of the samples. 14. The device of claim 1, wherein the sample stage comprises at least one vacuum hold-down device for removably securing at least one sample. 