Techniques for providing singularity escape and avoidance are disclosed. In one embodiment, a method for providing control moment gyroscope (CMG) attitude control singularity escape includes calculating a Jacobian A of a set of control equations, calculating a measure of closeness to a singularity, and comparing the calculated closeness to a threshold value, when the calculated closeness is less than or equal to the threshold value, recalculating the Jacobian A. Recalculating may include determining a new direction of virtual misalignment of .beta. and .gamma., recalculating the Jacobian inputting the new direction of the virtual misalignment, recalculating the measure of closeness to a singularity, and comparing the measure of closeness to the threshold value. Further, the method may include calculating a gimbal rate command if the of closeness is greater than the threshold value and generating a torque from the gimbal rate command to control the attitude of a satellite.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling the attitude of a satellite, comprising a plurality of control moment gyroscopes (CMG) in an array; a controller for controlling the array of CMGs and providing singularity escape, the controller further including: a Jacobian calculation module to calculate a Jacobian value of a set of CMG control equations; a determinant Jacobian Module utilizing the Jacobian matrix to produce a Jacobian Determinant value that is a measure of closeness to a singularity; a comparison module for comparing the Jacobian Determinant value to a threshold value, when the calculated determinant value is less than or equal to the threshold value, recalculating the Jacobian, when the calculated determinant value is greater than the threshold value, calculating a gimbal rate command; and a control module for transmitting the gimbal rate command to the plurality control moment gyroscopes to control the attitude of the satellite. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of CMGs includes at least three CMGs. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the Jacobian determinant value is the absolute value of the product of the Jacobian and the transverse of the Jacobian. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the Jacobian is calculated with a virtual misalignment of inputs .beta. and .gamma., wherein the virtual misalignment is updated for each iteration of the Jacobian calculation module. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the determined new direction of the virtual misalignment is less than or equal to one degree for .beta. and .gamma.. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein a momentum envelope extends beyond the singularity. 7. The system of claim 1, further characterized in that: the gimbal rate command is {dot over (.delta.)}.sub.c=A.sup.T(AA.sup.T).sup.-1{dot over (h)}.sub.c, where A is the Jacobian value and {dot over (h)}.sub.c is a torque command. 