A die change method includes providing a press apparatus having a base and a ram, and a first die set including an upper die member and a lower die member. The lower die member is supported on the base and the upper die member is mounted on the ram. The ram is lowered into a closed, home position to mate the upper and lower die members and to perform an operation on a workpiece disposed between the die members. The ram is released from the upper die member. The ram is raised a minimum distance to provide minimal clearance for removing the upper and lower die members from the press. The mated upper and lower die members are moved out of the press with the workpiece held between the upper and lower die members.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A die change method comprising the steps of: providing a press apparatus having a base and a ram, and a first die set including an upper die member and a lower die member; supporting said lower die member on said base and mounting said upper die member on said ram; lowering said ram into a closed, home position to mate said upper and lower die members and to perform an operation on a workpiece disposed between said die members; releasing said ram from said upper die member; raising said ram a minimum distance to provide minimal clearance for removing said upper and lower die members from said press; and moving said mated upper and lower die members out of said press with said workpiece held between said upper and lower die members. 2. The method of claim 1, including the steps of: moving a second die set including an upper die member and a lower die member into said press such that said second lower die member is supported by said base; lowering said ram into said closed, home position such that said ram contacts said second upper die member; and mounting said second upper die member on said ram. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said minimal clearance is generally 200 mm. 4. The method of claim 1, including storing one finished workpiece per die set on a die changer. 5. The method of claim 1, providing a die changer having a plurality of locations for storing die; rotating said die changer such that an empty die storing location is aligned with said press; moving said first die set out of said press and into said empty die storing location; rotating said die changer such that a second die set located in one of said die storing locations is aligned with said press; and moving said second die set into said press. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said die changer is a rotary die changer. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein each die set disposed in said die changer stores one finished workpiece. 8. The method of claim 2, including the steps of: raising said ram from said closed, home position into an open position wherein said second upper die member is spaced from said second lower die member a distance greater than said minimum distance; inserting another workpiece into said press, said another workpiece being placed on said second lower die member; removing a finished workpiece from said second upper die member; and lowering said ram into said closed, home position to mate said second upper and lower die members and to perform an operation on said another workpiece disposed between said die members. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein a robotic arm manipulates workpieces into and out of said press. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said workpiece is a set of nested panels. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said operation performed on said workpiece is a hemming operation. 