A method for estimating the location of a sound source. First, a first microphone and a second microphone are moved relative to the sound source. Then the Intra-aural Time Difference (ITD) between the two microphones is measured. The moving and the measuring are repeated until the Intra-aural Time Difference (ITD) is smaller than a predefined threshold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining location of a sound source, comprising: obtaining a first measurement of ITD and/or IED of acoustical signals originating from a sound source at an unknown location using microphones of a platform in a first position; rotating the platform from the first position to a second position different from the first position; obtaining a second measurement of ITD and/or IED at the second position of the platform; and estimating the location of the sound source using the first and second measurements, wherein the step of estimating the location of the sound source comprises using a linear model represented by ITD(p)=a*(p-s), where p is a position of the platform, a is the slope of a line for the linear model, and s is the location of the sound source. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of estimating the location of the sound source comprises linear interpolating the first and second measurements. 3. A computer-readable storage device having embodied thereon program code for storing instructions executable by a processor, the instructions when executed cause the processor to: obtain a first measurement of ITD and/or IED of acoustical signals generated by at least two microphones receiving sound from a sound source at an unknown location using microphones of a platform in a first position; rotate the platform from the first position to a second position different from the first position; obtain a second measurement of ITD and/or IED at the second position of the platform; and estimate the location of the sound source using the first and second measurements, wherein the location of the sound source is estimated using a linear model represented by ITD(p)=a*(p-s), where p is a position of the platform, a is the slope of a line for the linear model, and s is the location of the sound source. 4. The computer readable storage device of claim 3, further comprising estimating the location of the sound by linear interpolating of the first and second measurements. 