A singulating disc, carried by a housing, has a plurality of openings around its periphery. The disc rotates vertically through a pickup chamber of a hopper carried by the housing. A vacuum is pulled through the openings by a pump which is connected to the disc. Items are placed in the hopper and, via gravity, fall to the bottom of the hopper where they contact the periphery of the rotating disc. The vacuum at the openings attaches an item and holds it while the disc rotates. At the top of the disc's rotation, a diverter directs the item into a path depending on the results of a fragment detection and/or counting mechanism. Items that are allowed to pass by the diverter are scraped off the disc into another path by a scraper. Negative pressure is used to singulate and count a multitude of sizes and shapes of items with no calibration. Retractable paddles, a vacuum management system, and RFID tags may be incorporated. The paddles aid in the pickup and agitation of the items while the vacuum management system conserves the vacuum capacity necessary to pickup and singulate items. The RFID tags may contain information such as the number of items left in the hopper, a par level for that item, an expiration date, among others. Because of the rules governing abstracts, this abstract should not be used to construe the claims.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A singulating device, comprising: a housing; a removable hopper defining a pickup chamber, said hopper being connectable to said housing; an RFID tag carried by said hopper; an RFID tag reader carried by said housing; a rotatable singulating disc carried by said housing, said disc having a plurality of openings around the periphery thereto, a portion of said disc rotating through said pickup chamber; a source of rotary motion coupled to said singulating disc; a vacuum source coupled to said singulating disc; a counting device; and means responsive to said counting device for removing items from said singulating disc; wherein said singulating disc includes a hollow disc having a plurality of retractable paddles extendable from said periphery, each of said paddles having an actuating device extending through an opening in a face of said singulating disc, and a cam positioned to interface with each of said actuating devices during a portion of rotation of said singulating disc such that each of said devices moves along said opening in a first direction to cause its respective paddle to extend beyond said periphery, and to move along said opening in a second direction opposite to said first direction to cause said paddle to retract as said device rides along said cam. 2. The singulating device of claim 1 wherein said means responsive to said counting device includes a U-shaped mechanical diverter positioned adjacent to said periphery of said singulating disc, said diverter having a first position for directing items into a first path, a second position for directing items into a second path, and a third position which allows items to remain on said disc. 3. The singulating device of claim 1 wherein said RFID tag includes a tag into which information may be written. 4. The singulating device of claim 3 wherein said information includes at least one of a quantity of items in the hopper, a par level for that item, an expiration date for the items and a location where the hopper is stored. 5. A method of singulating items, comprising: rotating a singulating disc through a pickup chamber while pulling a vacuum at a plurality of openings located around the periphery of the disc; controlling the volume of air flowing through each of said plurality of openings; counting the items captured by the singulating disc; reading an RFID tag carried by a hopper in which the pickup chamber is formed; and dispensing the items captured by the singulating disc in response to said counting; wherein said dispensing includes removing the items captured by the singulating disc; and wherein said controlling includes maximizing the air flow through one of the plurality openings of the singulating disc when the opening is in the pickup chamber and minimizing the air flow through the opening during the removing of an item; wherein said controlling includes regulating the air flow so that the air flow through the opening is less than maximum but more than minimum during a portion of rotation of the disc from the pickup chamber until the removing of the item. 6. The method of claim 5 additionally comprising inspecting an item captured by the singulating disc to determine if the item may be dispensed. 7. The method of claim 5 additionally comprising controlling the extension and retraction of paddles from a periphery of the disc as the disc rotates. 8. The method of claim 7 additionally comprising ceasing the rotation of the disc and retracting all of said paddles. 9. The method of claim 8 including removing the hopper having the pickup chamber from a housing carrying the singulating disc. 10. A singulating device, comprising: a housing; a removable hopper defining a pickup chamber, said hopper being connectable to said housing; an RFID tag carried by said hopper; an RFID tag reader carried by said housing; a rotatable singulating disc carried by said housing, said disc having a plurality of openings around the periphery thereto, a portion of said disc rotating through said pickup chamber; a source of rotary motion coupled to said singulating disc; a vacuum source coupled to said singulating disc; a counting device; and means responsive to said counting device for removing items from said singulating disc; wherein said disc has a plurality of pistons, each piston positioned so as to control the flow of air flowing through one of said plurality of openings, and a cam positioned to interface with each of said pistons such that air flow is at a maximum for each opening while said opening is located in said pickup chamber and is at a minimum when said opening is positioned at said means for removing. 11. The singulating device of claim 10 wherein said means responsive to said counting device includes a U-shaped mechanical diverter positioned adjacent to said periphery of said singulating disc, said diverter having a first position for directing items into a first path, a second position for directing items into a second path, and a third position which allows items to remain on said disc. 12. The singulating device for claim 10 wherein said RFID tag includes a tag into which information may be written. 13. The singulating device of claim 12 wherein said information includes at least one of a quantity of items in the hopper, a par level for the items, an expiration date for the items and a location where the hopper is stored. 