The present invention describes An RFID antenna manufacturing system whereby the RFID antenna becomes an integral part of an integrated circuit package. The RFID manufacturing system contemplated by this invention includes photoresist manufacturing techniques to produce a template or die specifically designed to mass produce RFID transponders whereby the chip and antenna becomes one integrated unit. The RFID antenna template or die is precisely tuned, using trimming algorithms and laser technology, to resonate with electro magnetic signal increments of 2 megahertz. According to this system each electro magnetic signal increment is assigned to a different category in a supply chain. This invention reduces the cost, size and weight of prior art RFID transponders. This invention reduces signal to noise ratio by producing precisely tuned antennas which provide a gatekeeper function directly correlated to ambient electro magnetic signals.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) transponder integrated circuit package incorporating a precisely tuned antenna comprising: providing at least one substrate, each substrate including at least one silicon layer; at least one semiconductor template, also known as a die; constructing an antenna of doped silicon layered into said integrated circuit package using a photoresist manufacturing process; designing, photographing and de-magnifying the antenna to produce a template or die and whereby said template or die is designed to mass produce a RFID antenna which is part of an integrated circuit package with a precise electro magnetic signal which resonates or tunes in the 24 to 40 GHz (gigahertz) range; laser trimming the antenna template or die to resonate or tune in 2 MHz (megahertz) increments from the 24 GHz (gigahertz) frequency to the 40 GHz (gigahertz) frequency; precisely trimming the antenna template or die to a specific frequency using algorithms; testing the frequency resonance of the mass produced antennas which are integrated into a single packed integrated circuit all for the purpose of reducing the size, weight and cost of a RFID transponder while increasing efficiency by reducing the transponder's signal to noise ratio; complementing the RFID transponders with RFID interrogators designed to frequency switch within the 24 to 40 GHz (gigahertz) range as desired by an operator or operating system. 2. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit package as defined in claim 1, wherein the integrated circuit package is manufactured using standard silicon wafer integrated circuit manufacturing methodology with the addition that the antenna template or die be manufactured using the methodology more precisely described as production of a photolithographic detailed and precisely tuned antenna template or die which is de-magnified replicating all features of the precisely tuned antenna perfectly, producing a de-magnified photographic replica; the replica is then manufactured into a master stencil mask and illuminated in transmission by an ultraviolet light source after which the de-magnified photographic replica is etched and deposited through a process of photoresist onto a silicon layer for application to an integrated circuit substrate. 3. A method of manufacturing and integrated circuit package as defined in claim 1, wherein the precisely tuned antenna is designed so that the antenna length is such that any antenna can be tuned at each of 24 GHz (gigahertz) and then in 2 MHz (megahertz) increments up to and including the 40 MHz (gigahertz) frequency of electro magnetic signals. 4. A method of manufacturing and integrated circuit package as defined in claim 1, wherein the precisely tuned antenna template or die is trimmed using a positive electrophoretic photoresist and UV eximer laser mask to produce precise conducting features on the surface of the antenna template or die with a laser trimming technique guided by trimming algorithms to machine the antenna template or die to within a tolerance of 2 megahertz using an Nd; YAG laser in TEM00 mode focused onto the antenna template or die by means of a flat field (f-theta) lens and scanned across the top surface of the antenna by means of an x-y galvanometer. 5. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit package as defined in claim 4, whereby the YAG laser in TEM00 mode is integrated into a robotic assembly loop whereby a robot picks and places the antenna template or die with a fitted matching box in a pneumatically actuated chuck on a high speed linear stage which moves the antenna template or die into a laser safe trimming tool enclosure with a pneumatically operated door. 6. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit package as defined in claim 5, whereby further four resonant frequency probes are positioned radially around the antenna template or die and are moved to close proximity of the antenna template or die perimeter such that each probe is located at the base of the antenna template or die. 7. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit package as defined in claim 6, whereby further the resonant frequency and balance (impedance) of the antenna template or die is measured with the resonant frequency probes as well as with a network analyzer. 8. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit package as defined in claim 7, whereby further measurements taken by the probes and network analyzer use trimming algorithms which determine the amount of copper or aluminum needed to be added or removed from the antenna template or die so that antennas mass produced from the template or die will resonant at a precise frequency in gigahertz designated for the template or die. 9. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit package as defined in claim 8, whereby subsequent to the trimming, the antenna template or die is inspected with laser light using nanosecond and femtosecond diode pumped solid state lasers at 355 nm and 266 nm to determine if the antenna template or die is within a 2 megahertz tolerance and if so, laser marking the antenna template as within accepted tolerances. 10. A method of manufacturing an integrated circuit package as defined in claim 1, whereby the template or die is used to mass produce a layer of silicon, doped with aluminum or copper, which acts as a RFID transponder antenna for full integration with a silicon chip in which mass produced RFID antennas operate within a 2 megahertz tolerance. 11. A method of manufacturing a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) transponder integrated circuit package incorporating a precisely tuned antenna comprising: providing at least one substrate, each substrate including at least one silicon layer; at least one semiconductor template, also known as a die; constructing an antenna of doped silicon layered into said integrated circuit package using a photoresist manufacturing process; designing, photographing and de-magnifying the antenna to produce a template or die and whereby said template or die is designed to mass produce a RFID antenna which is part of an integrated circuit package with a precise electro magnetic signal which resonates or tunes in the 24 to 40 GHz (gigahertz) range; laser trimming the antenna template or die to resonate or tune in 2 MHz (megahertz) increments from the 24 GHz (gigahertz) frequency to the 40 GHz (gigahertz) frequency; precisely trimming the antenna template or die to a specific frequency using algorithms; testing the frequency resonance of the mass produced antennas which are integrated into a single packaged integrated circuit all for the purpose of reducing the size, weight and cost of a RFID transponder while increasing efficiency by reducing the transponder's signal to noise ratio; complementing the RFID transponders with RFID interrogators designed to frequency switch within the 24 to 40 GHz (gigahertz) range as desired by an operator or operating system so that the RFID interrogators resonate to an exact electro magnetic signal frequency in gigahertz as assigned to each category of product to be tracked in a warehouse, distribution center, retail environment or within a supply chain. 