A minimally invasive surgical instrument includes a U-turn mechanism that transmits actuating forces around a U-turn. The U-turn mechanism is coupled between segments of the instrument and has a bend radius that is smaller than flexible arms having a similar cross section diameter. The actuating forces transmitted by the U-turn mechanism are used to move distal components of the instrument, such as an end effector and a wrist mechanism.
Claims We claim: 1. A minimally invasive surgical system comprising: a guide tube, wherein the guide tube comprises a longitudinal axis, a first bore, a second bore, and a slot that connects the first bore and the second bore, and wherein the first bore, the second bore, and the slot extend through the guide tube in the direction of the longitudinal axis; and a surgical instrument that extends through the guide tube, wherein the surgical instrument comprises: an end effector coupled to a distal end of the surgical instrument; and a fixed shape U-turn mechanism that is positioned beyond a distal end of the guide tube, wherein the fixed shape U-turn mechanism is dedicated to transmitting an actuating force through a fixed constant retrograde angle to the end effector, wherein the fixed shape U-turn mechanism has a fixed U-shape, and wherein the fixed shape U-turn mechanism passes through the guide tube in the fixed U-shape; wherein the first bore receives a proximal body segment of the surgical instrument as the surgical instrument is inserted through the guide tube; wherein the second bore receives a distal body segment of the surgical instrument as the surgical instrument is inserted through the guide tube; wherein as the surgical instrument passes through the guide tube, a first portion of the fixed shape U-turn mechanism passes through the slot, a second portion of the fixed shape U-turn mechanism passes through the first bore, and a third portion of the fixed shape U-turn mechanism passes through the second bore; and wherein the first portion of the fixed shape U-turn mechanism has a thickness smaller than a thickness of the second portion of the fixed shape U-turn mechanism and smaller than a thickness of the third portion of the fixed shape U-turn mechanism. 2. The system of claim 1: wherein the second bore receives a second surgical instrument after the fixed shape U-turn mechanism has passed through the guide tube. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a stereoscopic imaging system; wherein a field of view of the imaging system is oriented generally perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the guide tube. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a stereoscopic imaging system; wherein a field of view of the imaging system is oriented in retrograde. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a stereoscopic imaging system; wherein the imaging system extends through the guide tube. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a stereoscopic imaging system; wherein a field of view of the imaging system is movable as the guide tube remains stationary. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a stereoscopic imaging system that extends through the guide tube; and a plurality of telemanipulation actuators that move an image capture component at a distal end of the imaging system. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a stereoscopic imaging system; wherein the imaging system comprises a flexible segment that moves to orient a field of view of view of the imaging system. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of telemanipulation actuators that move the end effector with six nonredundant degrees of freedom in Cartesian space; wherein the six degrees of freedom of the end effector are independent of degrees of freedom of the guide tube. 10. The system of claim 1: wherein the surgical instrument is a first surgical instrument; the system further comprising: a second surgical instrument that extends through the guide tube, wherein the second surgical instrument comprises: an end effector coupled to a distal end of the second surgical instrument; wherein during surgery, the end effector of the first surgical instrument is oriented in retrograde with reference to a longitudinal axis of the guide tube and the end effector of the second surgical instrument is oriented in anterograde with reference to the longitudinal axis of the guide tube. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising: a first plurality of telemanipulation actuators that move the end effector of the first surgical instrument with six nonredundant degrees of freedom in Cartesian space; and a second plurality of telemanipulation actuators that move the end effector of the second surgical instrument with six nonredundant degrees of freedom in Cartesian space; wherein the first and the second surgical instruments move independently of each other; and wherein the six degrees of freedom of the end effectors are independent of degrees of freedom of the guide tube. 