A method of fabricating highly reliable tungsten interconnects takes into consideration the effects of charging that can occur within a CMP apparatus due to unrestricted DI water flow, limited only by house supply. Such effects are addressed with the use of a variable pressure input constant flow output in-line controller to the DI water line coupled to the head cleaning loading and unloading module of the CMP apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for fabricating highly reliable interconnects, comprising: processing a wafer in a chemical-mechanical polishing apparatus, the chemical-mechanical polishing apparatus including a head cleaning load and unload (HCLU) module, a robotic arm, and a wafer carrier head, wherein the HCLU module includes a padded surface for receiving the wafer during loading and unloading operations, the padded surface including a plurality of orifices disposed in a given arrangement, wherein the processed wafer includes at least one of (i) metal interconnect features and (ii) a processed inter-level dielectric, the metal interconnect features being susceptible to metal corrosion defects and the processed inter-level dielectric being susceptible to arcing defects; transferring the processed wafer from the wafer carrier head to the HCLU module, wherein said transferring includes using vacuum supplied to the HCLU module for pulling the wafer away from the wafer carrier head to the HCLU module; and transferring the processed wafer from the HCLU module to the robotic arm, wherein said transferring includes using a variable pressure input DI water through the orifices of the HCLU module to detach the processed wafer from the padded surface of the HCLU sufficient for the robotic arm to retrieve the processed wafer, and wherein the use of variable pressure input DI water through the orifices of the HCLU module minimizes a build-up of static charge and substantially eliminates an occurrence of metal corrosion defects and arcing defects in the processed wafer, wherein the HCLU module receives a regulated gas supply input, a vacuum input, and a DI water input, wherein each of the regulated gas supply input, the vacuum input, and the DI water input are selectively coupled to the plurality of orifices through a manifold, further wherein the variable pressure input DI water is regulated inline to provide a constant flow DI water to the plurality orifices at least during a polished wafer unloading from the HCLU to the robotic arm, and further wherein inline regulating of the variable pressure input DI water comprises sharing a regulated supply of DI water with the chemical-mechanical polishing process and further using a flow restrictor on the regulated supply of DI water, the flow restrictor configured to provide a given constant DI water flow, which is less than the regulated supply of DI water. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein inline regulating of the variable pressure input DI water comprises using a flow controller, the flow controller being adjusted to provide a given constant DI water flow during a polished wafer unloading from the HCLU to the robotic arm according to the requirements of the wafer being polished via chemical-mechanical polishing. 3. The method of claim 2, further wherein the flow controller is adjustable to (i) a first constant DI water flow during the polished wafer unloading from the HCLU to the robotic arm and adjustable to (ii) a second constant DI water flow during a cleaning of the wafer carrier head, wherein the second constant DI water flow is greater than the first constant DI water flow. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the constant DI water flow is selected according to the requirements of (i) maximizing an ability to reduce occurrence of defects, while (ii) maintaining a maximum ability for cleaning the wafer carrier head. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the constant DI water flow is on the order of 1000 ml/min. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein metal corrosion defects further comprise latent defects which are not detectable at wafer level or die level testing, but are activated during actual use of a semiconductor device fabricated from the processed wafer, and wherein the arcing defects are detectable at a wafer probe testing. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the metal interconnect features are susceptible to metal corrosion defects in response to an unrestricted flow of DI water during a wafer unloading operation from the wafer carrier head to the HCLU, wherein the unrestricted flow of DI water through the orifices creates a build up of static charge which can discharge upon contact with the wafer, the discharge creating a metal corrosion latent defect. 8. The method of claim 7, further wherein the metal corrosion latent defect comprises at least one of a fence defect, a protruded via, and a dished via. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the processed inter-level dielectric is susceptible to arcing defects in response to an unrestricted flow of DI water during a wafer unloading operation from the wafer carrier head to the HCLU, wherein the unrestricted flow of DI water through the orifices creates a build up of static charge which can discharge upon contact with the wafer. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to processing the wafer, the method further comprising: transferring the wafer from a robotic arm to the padded surface of the HCLU module of the chemical-mechanical polishing apparatus; and transferring the wafer to the wafer carrier head from the HCLU module. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to transferring the processed wafer from the wafer carrier head to the HCLU module, the method further comprising: venting the orifices using a purging gas supplied to the HCLU module. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the purging gas comprises nitrogen, and wherein subsequent to transferring the processed wafer from the HCLU module to the robotic arm, the method further comprising: cleaning the wafer carrier head using the variable pressure input DI water through the orifices of the HCLU module to clean the wafer carrier head. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the DI water input comprises unregulated flow and variable pressure DI water house supply. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the DI water output through the plurality of orifices is subject to creating a static charge in response to unregulated DI water flow through the plurality of orifices being at a pressure greater than a threshold amount. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of orifices comprises orifices formed within stainless steel. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of orifices comprises nine orifices that are arranged in two rows, each row containing five orifices, wherein the central orifice is shared between the two rows, the first and second rows further being perpendicular to one another through the central orifice. 