A printhead assembly comprises an elongate casing defining a longitudinally extending printhead channel, a static pagewidth printhead received within the printhead channel, the static pagewidth printhead comprising a plurality of printhead tiles each bearing a printhead integrated circuit, the tiles being shaped to serially engage together so that adjacent printhead integrated circuits overlap, and an elongate fluid channel member defining a plurality of ducts for storing respective types of ink, the elongate fluid channel extending substantially the length of the static pagewidth printhead. The fluid channel member comprises an elongate body portion defining parallel open channels, and a lid portion which is fastened to the body portion so that the open channels form the ducts, the lid portion defining a plurality of protruding ridges which can be received in respective open channels. The lid portion comprises a plurality of groups of outlet ports, each group including a number of outlet ports equal to the number of parallel open channels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: an elongate casing defining a longitudinally extending printhead channel; a static pagewidth printhead received within the printhead channel, the static pagewidth printhead comprising a plurality of printhead tiles each bearing a printhead integrated circuit, the tiles being shaped to serially engage together so that adjacent printhead integrated circuits overlap; and an elongate fluid channel member defining a plurality of ducts for storing respective types of ink, the elongate fluid channel extending substantially the length of the static pagewidth printhead, wherein the fluid channel member comprises an elongate body portion defining parallel open channels, and a lid portion which is fastened to the body portion so that the open channels form the ducts, the lid portion defining a plurality of protruding ridges which can be received in respective open channels, and the lid portion comprises a plurality of groups of outlet ports, each group including a number of outlet ports equal to the number of parallel open channels. 2. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of printhead tiles each define a pair of complementary stepped end regions to facilitate engagement of adjacent tiles. 3. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead integrated circuits are angled with respect to the length of the fluid channel member to facilitate the overlapping of the printhead integrated circuits. 4. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the outlet ports of each group form a line which is angled relative to the length of the fluid channel member. 5. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the number of groups of outlet ports is equal to the number of printhead tiles. 