The invention describes devices for controlling fluid flow, such as valves. The devices may include one or more electroactive polymer transducers with an electroactive polymer that deflects in response to an application of an electric field. The electroactive polymer may be in contact with a fluid where the deflection of the electroactive polymer may be used to change a characteristic of the fluid. Some of the characteristic of the fluid that may be changed include but are not limited to 1) a flow rate, 2) a flow direction, 3) a flow vorticity, 4) a flow momentum, 5) a flow mixing rate, 6) a flow turbulence rate, 7) a flow energy, 8) a flow thermodynamic property. The electroactive polymer may be a portion of a surface of a structure that is immersed in an external fluid flow, such as the surface of an airplane wing or the electroactive polymer may be a portion of a surface of a structure used in an internal flow, such as a bounding surface of a fluid conduit.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for controlling fluid flow, the device comprising: at least one transducer comprising an electroactive polymer having at least a first and second electroactive polymer portion comprising respectively a first and second active area, the first and second active areas, each having a first and a second electrode in electrical communication with the respective portion of the electroactive polymer, wherein at least the first electroactive polymer portion is arranged to deflect from a first position to a second position in response to a change in electric field; and at least one surface in contact with a fluid and operatively coupled to the transducer, wherein the deflection of at least the first electroactive polymer portion causes a change in a characteristic of the fluid that is transmitted to the fluid via the one surface, wherein the electroactive polymer has an elastic modulus below about 100 MPa. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the characteristic of the fluid is selected from the group consisting of 1) a flow rate, 2) a flow direction, 3) a flow vorticity, 4) a flow momentum, 5) mixing, 6) flow turbulence, 7) fluid energy, 8) a fluid thermodynamic property, 9) a fluid rheological property. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the deflection of at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer changes the one surface from a first shape to a second shape. 4. The device according to claim 1, wherein the one surface is operatively coupled to the transducer via a mechanical linkage. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein the one surface includes at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer. 6. The device according to claim 5, wherein the one surface expands to form one of a balloon-like shape, a hemispherical shape, a cylinder shape, or a half-cylinder shape. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein the fluid is a compressible fluid. 8. The device according to claim 1, wherein the fluid is a Newtonian fluid. 9. The device according to claim 1, wherein the fluid is selected from the group consisting of a gas, a plasma, a liquid, a mixture of two or more immiscible liquids, a supercritical fluid, a slurry, a suspension, and combinations thereof. 10. The device according to claim 1, wherein the device is a valve. 11. The device according to claim 1, wherein the fluid flows over the one surface. 12. The device according to claim 11, wherein the deflection of at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer changes a shape of the one surface to alter a property of a viscous flow layer of the fluid. 13. The device according to claim 11, wherein the deflection of at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer changes a shape of the one surface to alter a property of an inviscid flow layer of the fluid. 14. The device according to claim 11, wherein the deflection of at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer changes a shape of the one surface to promote mixing of constituents in the fluid. 15. The device according to claim 1, wherein the deflection of at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer changes a shape of the one surface to block the fluid flow. 16. The device according to claim 1, wherein the deflection of at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer results in a change in temperature of the one surface. 17. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a fluid conduit configured to allow fluid to flow from an inlet of the fluid conduit to an exit of the fluid conduit and pass over the one surface between the inlet and the exit and wherein a bounding surface of the fluid conduit separates the fluid from an outer environment. 18. The device according to claim 17, wherein the one surface includes at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer and wherein the one surface is a portion of the bounding surface of the fluid conduit. 19. The device according to claim 17, wherein the deflection in at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer causes the one surface to expand to one of block, increase or decrease the flow in the fluid conduit. 20. The device according to claim 17, wherein the deflection in at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer causes the one surface to expand to divert flow in the fluid conduit from a first channel to a second channel connected to the fluid conduit. 21. The device according to claim 1, further comprising one or more sensors connected to the device for measuring property of the fluid. 22. The device according to claim 21, wherein the property of the fluid is selected from the group consisting of a temperature, a pressure, a density, a viscosity, a thermal conductivity, a flow rate, and a concentration of a constituent of the fluid. 23. The device according to claim 1, further comprising one or more sensors connected to the device for monitoring one or more of the deflection of at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer, a charge on at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer, and a voltage across at least the first portion of the electroactive polymer. 24. The device according to claim 1, further comprising a logic device for at least one of: 1) controlling operation of the transducer, 2) monitoring one or more sensors, 3) communicating with other devices, and 4) combinations thereof. 25. The device according to claim 1, further comprising conditioning electronics designed or configured to perform one or more of the following functions for the one or more transducers selected from the group consisting of: voltage step-up, voltage step-down and charge control. 26. The device according to claim 1, wherein the electroactive polymer comprises a material selected from the group consisting of a silicone elastomer, an acrylic elastomer, a polyurethane, a copolymer comprising PVDF, and combinations thereof. 27. The device according to claim 1, further comprising an insulation barrier designed or configured to protect the one surface from constituents of the fluid in contact with the one surface. 28. The device according to claim 1, further comprising one or more support structures designed or configured to attach to the one or more transducers. 29. The device according to claim 1, wherein the electroactive polymer is elastically pre-strained at the first position to improve a mechanical response of the electroactive polymer between the first position and second position. 30. The device according to claim 1, wherein the electroactive polymer has an elastic modulus between about 0.05 MPa and about 10 MPa. 31. The device according to claim 1, wherein the electroactive polymer has an elastic area strain of at least about 10 percent between the first position and the second position. 32. The device according to claim 1, wherein the electroactive polymer comprises a multilayer structure. 33. The device according to claim 32, wherein the multilayer structure comprises two or more layers of electroactive polymers. 34. The device according to claim 1, wherein the device is a MEMS device. 35. The device according to claim 1, wherein the one surface is part of a surface of a vane for controlling a direction of the fluid flow. 36. The device according to claim 35, wherein the deflection of the portion of the electroactive polymer changes an orientation of the vane. 