The present invention provides a random access and random load dispensing unit including a housing, at least one support located in the housing and defining a first axis, a plurality of platforms movable along the support along the first axis, a plurality of bins supported on the platforms, the bins being movable with the platforms, and a shuttle assembly movable along the first axis and further movable along a second axis substantially perpendicular to the first axis between the plurality of platforms to access and retrieve products stored in the bins.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of using an automated delivery device to conduct sales transactions for finished prescriptions associated with specific consumers and unique electronic labels before being placed within the automated delivery device comprising: configuring the automated delivery device to comprise a plurality of storage locations, wherein substantially all storage locations are configured to receive and store, finished, consumer-associated prescriptions, wherein a subset of the plurality of storage locations extend in each of three axes that ate substantially perpendicular to one another; interlacing the automated delivery device to a retail pharmacy computer system and a retail pharmacy point or sale system; wherein, the automated delivery device (i)receives from the retail pharmacy computer system a plurality of information records, each information record comprising a consumer name and a prescription number associated with the finished, consumer-associated prescription, each information record associated with a finished consumer-associated prescription to be stored or stored within the automated delivery device; (ii) receives for storage a plurality of unique finished, consumer-specific prescriptions previously associated with different information records, wherein a unique plurality of finished, consumer-specific prescriptions are stored along each of the three axes; (iii) receives from a consumer accessing the automated delivery device a unique consumer identifier; (iv) displays to the consumer a list of finished, consumer-specific prescriptions stored within the automated delivery device, which have been filled for the consumer accessing the automated delivery device, or members of the accessing consumer's family; (v) receives input from the consumer indicating selection of at least one finished, consumer-specific prescription from the displayed list; (vi) sends a prescription number associated with the selected, finished, consumer-specific prescription to the retail pharmacy point of sale system; (vii) receives a price associated with the selected, finished, consumer-specific prescription from the retail point of sale system or the retail pharmacy computer system; (viii) sends a prescription transaction record to the retail point of sale system or the retail pharmacy computer system; (ix) receives payment from the consumer; (x) verifies that the stored finished, consumer-specific prescription corresponds to the information record for the selected prescription by receiving information from the electronic label; (xi) and delivers to the consumer the verified finished, consumer associated prescription corresponding to the information record. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identification comprises a password or per identification number. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the identification is selected from the group consisting of a credit card, a store loyalty card, a driver's license, and an electronic identifier. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the retail pharmacy computer system is located remotely from the delivery device. 5. The method of claim of claim 1, wherein the automated delivery device further comprises a device computer. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising querying the retail pharmacy computer system to obtain the most updated information records prior to displaying information about stored finished prescriptions to the consumer. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the information record is transferred from the retail pharmacy computer system to the device computer system. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the information record is transferred from the retail pharmacy computer system to the device computer before the consumer accesses the automated delivery device. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein a storage container is used to contain the finished, consumed-associated prescriptions prior to storage in the automated delivery device. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the storage container is a bag. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein a first barcode is associated with the information record and the finished prescription. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein a second barcode is associated with the information record, and both the second barcode and the first barcode are scanned to associate the container with the information record. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the delivery device further comprises an internal barcode reader, which is used to locate a finished, consumer associated prescription that has been stored within the device, and requested to be delivered by a consumer for whom the prescription was filled. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the accessed information record contains information about a prescription that was filled for a person other than the consumer interacting with the delivery device. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein all information records having a relation to the consumer are accessed, and the consumer has the option of paying for one or more prescriptions, each associated with a different information record. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the automated delivery device has at least 500 storage locations. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the information record further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a physician name, a drug name, a brand name, and a generic name. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the information record further comprises information selected from a group of a retail price, a co-pay information, and a co pay amount. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising sensing the second barcode after the finished prescription is placed in the dispenser to associate a storage location with a particular consumer and a finished-prescription that has been filled for that consumer. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the prescription is a refill. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the storage locations are not predesignated prior to storage, and are associated with a finished, consumer-specific prescription only after the automated delivery device receives the finished consumer-specific prescription. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the automated delivery device is further configured so that at least three adjacent storage locations extending in the first axis receive unique consumer-associated finished prescriptions, at least three adjacent storage locations extending in the second axis receive unique consumer associated prescriptions, and at least two adjacent storage locations extending in the third axis receive unique consumer associated prescriptions. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein further comprising placing the prescription into a storage container is used to contain the finished, consumer-associated prescriptions, prior to storing storage it in the automated delivery device. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the storage container is a bag. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising placing a wherein a first barcode on the container is associated with the information record and the finished prescription. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein further comprising associating a second barcode is associated with relating to the information record, and scanning both the second barcode and the first barcode are scanned to associate the container with the information record. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the delivery device further comprises an internal barcode reader, which is used to locate a finished, consumer associated prescription that has been associated to a stored within the device, and requested to be delivered by a consumer requesting delivery for whom the prescription was filled. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated deliver device sends a prescription transaction record to the retail pharmacy point of sale system, and the retail pharmacy point of sale system sends a prescription transaction record to the retail pharmacy computer system. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the retail pharmacy computer system receives a prescription transaction record. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated deliver device receives the price from the retail point of sale system. 