Manufacturing lines include inspection systems for monitoring the quality of parts produced. Manufacturing lines for making semiconductor devices generally inspect each fabricated part. The information obtained is used to fix manufacturing problems in the semiconductor fab plant. A machine-vision system for inspecting devices includes a flipper mechanism. After being inspected at a first station, a tray-transfer device moves the tray from the first inspection station to a flipper mechanism. The flipper mechanism includes two jaws, a mover, and a rotator. The flipper mechanism turns the devices over and places the devices in a second tray so that another surface of the device can be inspected. A second tray-transfer device moves the second tray from the flipper to a second inspection station. The mover of the flipper mechanism removes the tray from the first inspection surface and places a tray at the second inspection surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a first tray adapted to carry a first plurality of devices; means for machine-vision optical inspecting a first side of each of the first plurality of devices while in the first tray; and means for simultaneously flipping an orientation of each of the first plurality of devices from a first inspection orientation that allows machine-vision optical inspection of the first side of each of the first plurality of devices while in the first tray to a second inspection orientation that allows machine-vision optical inspection of a second side of each of the first plurality of devices while in the first tray. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for machine-vision inspecting of the second side of each the first plurality of devices while in the first tray. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first tray has a long dimension side and a short dimension side, the apparatus further comprising: means for moving the first tray, from a location where means for the flipping of the orientation is located to a location where the means for machine-vision inspecting of the second side of each of the first plurality of devices is located, in a direction substantially perpendicular to the long dimension side. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first tray has a long dimension side and a short dimension side, the apparatus further comprising: means for moving the first tray, in a direction substantially perpendicular to the long dimension side, from a location where the means for machine-vision inspecting of the first side of each of the first plurality of devices is located to a location where the means for flipping of the orientation is located; and means for moving the first tray, in a direction substantially perpendicular to the long dimension side, from a location where the means for flipping of the orientation is located to a location where the means for machine-vision inspecting of the second side of each of the first plurality of devices is located. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the means for flipping further comprises: means for placing a surface against the first sides of the first plurality of devices; means for inverting the first tray, the surface, and the first plurality of devices such that the first plurality of devices rest on the surface; and means for sliding the surface relative to the inverted devices such that the devices move into the first tray. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first tray has a long dimension side and a short dimension side, the apparatus further comprising: means for moving the first tray, from a location where the means for machine-vision inspecting of the first side of each of the first plurality of devices is located to a location where the means for flipping of the orientation is located, in a direction substantially perpendicular to the long dimension side. 7. A method for machine-vision inspecting a first plurality of devices and for inverting the plurality of devices from an initial position in a first tray and for placing the first plurality of inverted devices back in the first tray, each of the first plurality of devices having a first side and an opposite second side, the method comprising: providing a first tray adapted to carry a first plurality of devices; machine-vision optical inspecting a first side of each of the first plurality of devices while in the first tray; and after the machine-vision optical inspection of the first side of each of the first plurality of devices, simultaneously flipping an orientation of each of the first plurality of devices with respect to the first tray from a first orientation that allowed the machine-vision optical inspection of the first side of each of the first plurality of devices while in the first tray to a second orientation that allows machine-vision optical inspection of a second side of each of the first plurality of devices while in the first tray. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the flipping of each of the first plurality of devices further comprises: placing a surface against the first sides of the first plurality of devices; inverting the first tray, the surface, and the first plurality of devices such that the first plurality of devices rest on the surface; and sliding the surface relative to the inverted devices such that the devices move into the first tray. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising machine-vision inspecting of the second side of each of the first plurality of devices while in the first tray after the flipping. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the first tray has a long dimension side and a short dimension side, the method further comprising: moving the first tray, from a location where the machine-vision inspecting of the first side of each of the first plurality of devices is performed to a location where the flipping of the orientation is performed, in a direction substantially perpendicular to the long dimension side. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the first tray has a long dimension side and a short dimension side, the method further comprising: moving the first tray, from a location where the flipping of the orientation is performed to a location where the machine-vision inspecting of the second side of each of the first plurality of devices is performed, in a direction substantially perpendicular to the long dimension side. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the first tray has a long dimension side and a short dimension side, the method further comprising: moving the first tray, from a location where the machine-vision inspecting of the first side of each of the first plurality of devices is performed to a location where the flipping of the orientation is performed, in a direction substantially perpendicular to the long dimension side; and moving the first tray, from a location where the flipping of the orientation is performed to a location where the machine-vision inspecting of the second side of each of the first plurality of devices is performed, in a direction substantially perpendicular to the long dimension side. 13. An apparatus for machine-vision inspecting a first plurality of devices in a first tray and for inverting each one of the first plurality of devices from a first inspection position that allows machine-vision optical inspection of a first side of each of the first plurality of devices while in the first tray to a second inspection position that allows machine-vision optical inspection of a second side of each of the first plurality of devices while in the first tray, the apparatus comprising: a first machine-vision inspection station configured to perform a first inspection of the first side of the first plurality of devices while held in the first tray in the first inspection position; and a device-inverting mechanism that, after the first inspection, simultaneously inverts each of the first plurality of devices while the devices are held in the first tray, wherein the device-inverting mechanism is adapted to then hold the inverted devices, and operable to position the first tray under the devices and to place each one of the inverted first plurality of devices into the first tray such that the devices are in their second inspection position. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: a first conveyer that moves the first tray having the first plurality of devices therein to the device-inverting mechanism; and a second conveyer that moves the first tray having the first plurality of devices therein from the device-inverting mechanism. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: a pusher configured to slide the inverted first plurality of devices into the first tray in the second inspection position. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the device-inverting mechanism includes a surface that is placed against the first sides of the first plurality of devices during the rotation of the first tray by the rotator such that the inverted first plurality of devices are held in the first tray in the first inspection position by the surface, and wherein the pusher is configured to slide the inverted first plurality of devices from the surface and into the first tray in the second inspection position. 17. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: a second inspection station configured to perform a first inspection of the second side of the first plurality of devices while held in the first tray in the second inspection position; and a tray-transfer device configured to move the first tray with the first plurality of devices held in the first tray from the first inspection station to the device-inverting mechanism and to move the first tray with the first plurality of devices held in the first tray from the device-inverting mechanism to the second inspection station so that the first sides of the first plurality of devices can be inspected at the first inspection station in the first tray and the second sides of the first plurality of devices can be inspected at the second inspection station in the first tray. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising: a third inspection station configured to perform a second inspection of the first side of each of the first plurality of devices while held in the first tray; and a fourth inspection station configured to perform a second inspection of the second side of each of the first plurality of devices while held in the first tray. 19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the first tray has a long dimension side and a short dimension side, and the tray-transfer device moves the first tray from the first inspection station to the device-inverting mechanism in a direction substantially perpendicular to the long dimension side so as to reduce a distance of movement needed. 20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the tray-transfer device moves the first tray from the device-inverting mechanism to the second inspection station in a direction substantially perpendicular to the long dimension side. 