The invention is related to methods and apparatus that use a visual sensor and dead reckoning sensors to process Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM). These techniques can be used in robot navigation. Such visual techniques can be used to autonomously generate and update a map. Unlike with laser rangefinders, the visual techniques are practical in a wide range of applications and can be used in relatively dynamic environments, such as environments in which people move. One embodiment further uses multiple particles to maintain multiple hypotheses with respect to localization and mapping. One embodiment maintains the particles, thereby permitting the SLAM processes to be performed in software using microprocessor-based computer systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of adding a new landmark to a map for navigation of a mobile device, the method comprising: navigating the mobile device using the map, and while navigating the mobile device, performing the following: retrieving dead reckoning data from at least a time corresponding to a prior update of device pose of the mobile device and a time corresponding to an observation of the new landmark; retrieving a prior device pose of the mobile device for the map, wherein the prior device pose of the mobile device corresponds to a prior update time; and adding the new landmark to the map, wherein the pose associated with the new landmark is computed at least in part by using the retrieved dead reckoning data to calculate a change to device pose of the mobile device corresponding to the prior update, wherein the new landmark is used for navigation of the same mobile device; wherein navigating, retrieving and adding are performed under the control of electronic hardware. 2. The method as defined in claim 1, wherein the prior update to the device pose of the mobile device and the retrieved dead reckoning data are referenced by one or more timestamps. 3. The method as defined in claim 1, further comprising visually observing the new landmark using a digital imaging device. 4. The method as defined in claim 1, wherein navigating, retrieving dead reckoning data, retrieving a prior device pose, and adding are performed in real time. 5. An apparatus comprising: a computer program embodied in a tangible non-transitory computer-readable medium for adding a new landmark to a map for navigation of a mobile device, the computer program comprising: program instructions configured to navigate the mobile device using the map; program instructions configured to retrieve dead reckoning data from at least a time corresponding to a prior update of device pose of the mobile device and a time corresponding to an observation of the new landmark; program instructions configured to retrieve a prior device pose of the mobile device for the map, wherein the prior device pose of the mobile device corresponds to a prior update time; and program instructions configured to add the new landmark to the map, wherein the pose associated with the new landmark is computed at least in part by using the retrieved dead reckoning data to calculate a change to device pose of the mobile device corresponding to the prior update, wherein the new landmark is added to the map and the pose is associated with the new landmark while the mobile device is being navigated; and a processor configured to execute the program instructions of the computer program. 6. The apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the computer program further comprises program instructions configured to visually observe the new landmark. 7. A method of adding a new landmark to a plurality of maps in a multiple-particle navigation system for navigation of a mobile device, the method comprising: navigating the mobile device using the plurality of maps, and while navigating the mobile device, performing the following: retrieving dead reckoning data from at least a time corresponding to a prior update of device pose of the mobile device and a time corresponding to an observation of the new landmark; retrieving prior device poses of the mobile device for the plurality of maps, wherein the prior device poses of the mobile device correspond to a prior update time; and adding the new landmark to the plurality of maps, wherein the poses associated with the new landmark are computed at least in part by using the retrieved dead reckoning data to calculate a change to device pose of the mobile device from the device poses of the mobile device corresponding to the prior update, wherein the new landmark is used for navigation of the same mobile device; wherein navigating, retrieving and adding are performed under the control of electronic hardware. 8. The method as defined in claim 7, wherein the prior update to device pose of the mobile device and the retrieved dead reckoning data are referenced by one or more timestamps. 9. The method as defined in claim 7, further comprising visually observing the new landmark using a visual sensor coupled to the mobile device. 10. The method as defined in claim 7, wherein navigating, retrieving dead reckoning data, retrieving prior device poses, and adding are performed in real time. 11. An apparatus comprising: a computer program embodied in a tangible non-transitory computer-readable medium for adding a new landmark to a plurality of maps in a multiple-particle navigation system for navigation of a mobile device, the computer program comprising: program instructions configured to navigate the mobile device using the plurality of maps; program instructions configured to retrieve dead reckoning data from at least a time corresponding to a prior update of device pose of the mobile device and a time corresponding to an observation of the new landmark; program instructions configured to retrieve prior device poses of the mobile device for the plurality of maps, wherein the prior device poses of the mobile device correspond to a prior update time; and program instructions configured to add the new landmark to the plurality of maps, wherein the poses associated with the new landmark are computed at least in part by using the retrieved dead reckoning data to calculate a change to device pose of the mobile device from the device poses of the mobile device corresponding to the prior update, wherein the new landmark is added to the plurality of maps and the poses are associated with the new landmark while the mobile device is being navigated; and a processor configured to execute the program instructions of the computer program. 12. The apparatus as defined in claim 11, wherein the computer program further comprises program instructions configured to visually observe the new landmark. 