The present invention provides a bumper structure for an automatic moving device which directs the moving device to change directions when bumping into an obstacle. The bumper structure of the present invention comprises a base, an elastic housing and a conductive terminal. A plurality of conductive sheets is formed over the base, wherein the conductive sheets are coupled to the control circuit of a moving device via the base. The elastic housing is formed over the base, with a protruding actuator section formed within the elastic housing, and the actuator section is parallel to the conductive sheets. The conductive terminal is formed at the bottom of the actuator section but is not in contact with the conductive sheets. The elastic housing may provide buffer when bumping into an obstacle, and the force generated by the impact presses the actuator section downwards, allowing conductive terminal of the actuator section to couple with the plurality of conductive sheets, thereby connects the plurality of conductive sheets and sends a signal to the control circuit of the moving device, directing the moving device to change directions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A bumper structure for an automatic moving device, which allows said automatic moving device to change directions when bumping into obstacles, comprising: a base with a plurality of conductive sheets formed over said base, wherein said plurality of conductive sheets are coupled to a control circuit of said automatic moving device; an elastic housing formed over said base, with a protruding actuator section formed within said elastic housing, and said actuator section being parallel to said plurality of conductive sheets; and a conductive terminal formed at bottom of said actuator section, said conductive terminal being not in contact with said plurality of conductive sheets; wherein said elastic housing may provide buffer during impact, and force generated by said impact presses said actuator section downwards, allowing said conductive terminal of said actuator section to couple with said plurality of conductive sheets, thereby connecting said plurality of conductive sheets and transmits signal to said control circuit of said automatic moving device for executing a turning command. 2. The bumper structure of claim 1, wherein said base is a flexible base. 3. The bumper structure of claim 2, wherein material of said flexible base is silicone rubber or rubber. 4. The bumper structure of claim 1, wherein said plurality of conductive sheets may be replaced by conductive pads or printed circuits. 5. The bumper structure of claim 1, wherein said elastic housing may be strip-like, granular, columnar, sheet-like, polygonal or irregular shaped. 6. The bumper structure of claim 1, wherein said conductive terminal is conductive rubber, copper or carbon diaphragm. 7. The bumper structure of claim 1, wherein combination of said elastic housing, said actuator section and said conductive terminal may be an all-in-one conductive rubber particle. 8. The bumper structure of claim 7, wherein said conductive rubber particle may be connected with each other to form a conductive rubber strip. 9. The bumper structure of claim 1, wherein said automatic moving device includes robots, small vehicles or toys. 10. A bumper structure for an automatic moving device, which allows said automatic moving device to change directions when bumping into obstacles, comprising: a base with a plurality of conductive sheets formed over said base, wherein said plurality of conductive sheets are coupled to a control circuit of said automatic moving device; a plurality of actuator sections, formed over said base, with a plurality of corresponding conductive terminals formed at bottom of said plurality of actuator sections, wherein said plurality of actuator sections being parallel to said plurality of conductive sheets, and said plurality of conductive terminals being not in contact with said plurality of conductive sheets; and a plurality of elastic housings, formed over said plurality of actuator sections; wherein said elastic housing may provide buffer during impact, and force generated by said impact presses corresponding said actuator section downwards, allowing said conductive terminal of said corresponding actuator section to couple with said plurality of conductive sheets, thereby connecting said plurality of conductive sheets and transmits signal to said control circuit of said automatic moving device for executing a turning command. 11. The bumper structure of claim 10, further comprising a plurality of supplement actuator sections formed between said plurality of actuator sections, with a plurality of corresponding supplement conductive terminals formed at bottom of said plurality of supplement actuator sections, wherein said plurality of supplement actuator sections being parallel to said plurality of conductive sheets, and said plurality of supplement conductive terminals being not in contact with said plurality of conductive sheets. 12. The bumper structure of claim 11, wherein said plurality of supplement actuator sections are fixed on said base through a plurality of corresponding hollow sections formed over said base. 13. The bumper structure of claim 11, wherein said plurality of supplement conductive terminals is conductive rubber, copper or carbon diaphragm. 14. The bumper structure of claim 10, wherein said plurality of conductive sheets is formed interdigitally over said base. 15. The bumper structure of claim 10, wherein said base is a flexible base. 16. The bumper structure of claim 10, wherein said plurality of conductive sheets may be replaced by conductive pads or printed circuits. 17. The bumper structure of claim 10, wherein said plurality of elastic housings may be strip-like, granular, columnar, sheet-like, polygonal or irregular shaped. 18. The bumper structure of claim 10, wherein said plurality of conductive terminals is conductive rubber, copper or carbon diaphragm. 19. The bumper structure of claim 10, wherein combination of said plurality of elastic housings, said plurality of actuator sections and said plurality of conductive terminals may be an all-in-one conductive rubber strip. 20. An automatic moving device with a bumper structure, allowing said automatic moving device to change directions when bumping into obstacles, comprising: an automatic moving device body, including a control circuit; a bumper structure surrounding outer periphery of said automatic moving device body, including: a base with a plurality of conductive sheets formed over said base, wherein said plurality of conductive sheets are coupled to said control circuit of said automatic moving device body; a plurality of elastic housings, formed over said base, with a plurality of protruding actuator sections formed within said elastic housing, and said plurality of actuator sections being parallel to said plurality of conductive sheets; and a plurality of conductive terminals, formed at bottom of said plurality of actuator sections, said conductive terminal being not in contact with said plurality of conductive sheets; wherein said elastic housing may provide buffer during impact, and force generated by said impact presses said actuator section downwards, allowing said conductive terminal of said actuator section to couple with said plurality of conductive sheets, thereby connecting said plurality of conductive sheets and transmits signal to said control circuit of said automatic moving device body for executing a turning command. 