Systems (50) and methods are disclosed for detecting defects (DEF1-DEF5) in a ceramic filter body (10) having a honeycomb structure (12) that defined multiple channels (20). Plugs (30) are used to seal select channel ends (22, 24). The methods include using a first light source unit (52) and a first detector unit (62) operably arranged at respective first and second ends (16, 18) of the honeycomb structure so as to be capable of being in optical communication. Light beams (LB) are transmitted from the first light source unit to the first detector unit through multiple channels. Defects in a given plug allow a detectable portion (LBD) of the corresponding light beam to be detected. Multiple detector elements (64) are used to detect the detectable light beam portion to provide location and intensity variation information, which helps deduce the precise location and nature of the defect. Light source units (52, 52') at opposite ends (16, 18) and detector units (62, 62') at opposite ends (18, 16) form a "double-ended" system that allows for the simultaneous measurement of defect at both ceramic filter body ends. Systems and methods for measuring defects (DEF4, DEF5) for unplugged ceramic filter bodies are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting defects in a ceramic filter body having a honeycomb structure with first and second ends and an array of longitudinal channels between the first and second ends and having respective first and second channel ends, the method comprising: positioning adjacent the honeycomb structure first end a first light source unit having multiple first light source elements that generate respective first light beams; positioning immediately adjacent the honeycomb structure second end a first detector unit having multiple first detector elements per channel end for at least one first channel, so that the first light source and the first detector elements are capable of being in optical communication through the corresponding at least one first channel; transmitting at least one of the first light beams from the first light source unit to the first detector unit through the at least one first channel; detecting first light from the at least one of the first light beams with the multiple detector elements per channel and, in response thereto, generating at least one first electrical detector signal representative of a gray-scale variation in the detected first light for the at least one first channel; and processing the at least one first electrical detector signal to determine if at least one first defect exists within the at least one first channel. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising for said processing: calculating, for the at least one first defect, corresponding at least one defect position relative to the honeycomb structure second end based on the gray-scale variation in the first detected light for the at least one channel. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: moving the ceramic filter body relative to the first light source unit and the first detector unit so as to detect the at least one first defect over substantially the entire ceramic filter body. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: the multiple first detector elements each having a width of between about 10 microns and about 125 microns. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising a number N1 of first detector elements per channel end, wherein 2.ltoreq.N1.ltoreq.25. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first light source elements are selected from the group of light source elements comprising: light-emitting diodes and lasers. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming the first light source unit from multiple optical fibers. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the ceramic filter body includes a plurality of first plugs arranged in select second channel ends adjacent the first detector unit, and wherein the at least one first channel is one of the select channels designated to include one of the first plugs, the method further comprising: detecting first light that passes through either a) a defect in the first plug, or b) the at least one second channel end when the first plug is absent therefrom. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: positioning adjacent the honeycomb structure second end a second light source unit having multiple second light source elements that generate respective second light beams; positioning immediately adjacent the honeycomb channel first end a second detector unit having multiple second detector elements per channel end for at least one second channel, so that the second light source and the second multiple detector elements are capable of being in optical communication through the corresponding at least one second channel from the second to first channel ends; transmitting at least one of the second light beams from the second light source unit to the second detector unit through the at least one second channel; detecting second light from the at least one of the second light beams with the multiple detector elements per channel and, in response thereto, generating at least one second electrical detector signal representative of a gray-scale variation in the detected second light for the at least one second channel; and processing the at least one-second electrical detector signal to determine if at least one second defect exists within the at least one second channel. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the ceramic filter body includes a plurality of first plugs arranged in select second channel ends adjacent the first detector unit, a plurality of second plugs arranged in select first channel ends adjacent the second detector unit, and wherein the at least one first and second channels are ones of the select channels designated to respectively include second and first plugs, the method further comprising: detecting first light that passes through either a) a defect in the first plug or b) the at least one second channel end when the first plug is absent therefrom; and detecting second light that passes through either a) a defect in the second plug or b) the at least one first channel end when the second plug is absent therefrom. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein processing the first and second electrical detector signals includes detecting a reduction in intensity in one of the first and second light beams as compared to light intensities of the first and second light beams traveling through a defect-free channel so as to detect one of first and second defects in the form of material defects within the honeycomb structure. 12. A system for detecting defects in a ceramic filter body having a honeycomb structure with first and second ends and an array of longitudinal channels between the first and second ends and having respective first and second channel ends, the system comprising: a first light source unit having multiple first light source elements and positioned adjacent the first honeycomb structure end, the first light source elements adapted to generate corresponding first light beams; a first detector unit having multiple first detector elements per channel end for at least one first channel and positioned immediately adjacent the honeycomb structure second end so that multiple first light source elements and multiple first detector elements are capable of being in optical communication through the corresponding at least one first channel, the first detector unit configured to generate first electrical detector signals representative of a gray-scale variation in response to detecting first light from the first light beams; and a processor electrically connected to the first detector unit and adapted to process the first electrical detector signals to determine if at least one first defect exists within the at least one first channel. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein each channel has a channel width, and wherein: the first light source unit comprises a linear array of the multiple first light source elements that generate the multiple first light beams; and the first detector unit comprises a contact sensor that spans multiple first channels and that has between 2 and 25 first detector elements per channel width. 14. The system of claim 12, further comprising: a second light source unit having multiple second light source elements and positioned adjacent the honeycomb structure second end, the second light source elements adapted to generate a second light beams; a second detector unit having multiple second detector elements per channel end for at least one second channel, and positioned adjacent the honeycomb structure first end so that the multiple second light source elements and the multiple second detector elements are capable of being in optical communication through the corresponding at least one second channel, the second detector unit configured to generate second electrical detector signals representative of a gray-scale variation in response to detecting second light from the second light beams; and the processor being electrically connected to the second detector unit and adapted to process the second electrical detector signals to determine if at least one second defect exists within the at least one second channel. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the channels each have a channel width, and wherein: the first and second light source units comprise respective first and second linear arrays having the respective first and second light source elements that generate respective multiple first and second light beams; and the first and second detector units comprise respective first and second contact sensors that span respective multiple first and second channels and that respectively have between 2 and 25 first and second detector elements per channel width. 16. The system of claim 12, wherein said at least one first defect includes one or more of: a) one or more plug defects in plugs arranged in select channels at the second channel ends; and b) one or more material defects internal to the honeycomb structure. 17. A method of detecting defects in a ceramic honeycomb structure having first and second ends and an array of longitudinal channels having first and second channel ends, and ideally having first and second plugs at select first and second channel ends so as to seal the select channel ends, the method comprising: transmitting first light through the first end to the second end through one or more first channels; using multiple first detector elements per first channel end, at the second end, detecting first light that passes through at least one first defect to form a first gray-scale variation in the detected first light; transmitting second light through the second end to the first end through one or more second channels; using multiple second detector elements per second channel end at the first end, detecting second light that passes through at least one second defect to form a second gray-scale variation in the detected first light; and processing the first and second gray-scale variations to respectively detect the at least one first defect and the at least one second defect. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein detecting the first and second light is performed using respective first and second contact sensors that respectively include the multiple first and second detector elements, the first and second contact sensors being arranged at the second and first ends, respectively, including detecting the first light with the multiple first detector elements and detecting the second light with the multiple second detector elements. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the at least one first defect and the at least one second defect respectfully include first and second missing plugs at the select first and second ends, respectively. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: generating the first and second light using respective first and second linear light source units arranged adjacent the first and second ends, respectively; detecting the first and second light using respective first and second linear detector units arranged adjacent the second and first ends, respectively, the first and second linear detector units respectively including the multiple first and second detector elements; and moving either the first and second light source units and the first and second detector units relative to the honeycomb structure, or moving the honeycomb structure relative to the first and second light source units and the first and second detector units, to detect the at least one first defect and the at least one second defect over substantially the entire honeycomb structure. 