A robotic device in accordance with a plurality of embodiments is provided. The robotic device generally includes a plurality of groups of sensing devices for sensing environmental events; a plurality of controllers for recognizing the environmental events and generating corresponding commands; a plurality of driving devices for driving the robotic device to respond to the environmental events under control of the commands; at least one communication line for communication between the controllers; at least one power line for transmitting power to the sensing devices, the controllers and the driving devices; a plurality of ground lines; a plurality of branches extending out from the communication line, the power line and the ground lines; and a plurality of connectors for connecting the controllers to the branches.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic device, comprising: a plurality of groups of sensing devices, each sensing device being configured for sensing an environmental event; a plurality of controllers, each controller corresponding to a group of sensing devices and being configured for recognizing the environmental event and generating signals/commands accordingly; a plurality of driving devices being controlled by the signals/commands to drive the robotic device to respond to the environmental event; at least one communication line configured for communication between the plurality of controllers; at least one power line for transmitting power to the sensing devices, the controllers and the driving devices; a plurality of ground lines; a plurality of branches extending out from the at least one communication line, the at least one power line and the ground lines; and a plurality of connectors, each being configured for connecting one of the controllers to the branches. 2. The robotic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one communication line, the at least one power line and the ground lines are arranged along a backbone orientation of the robotic device. 3. The robotic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the connectors are further configured for connecting the sensing devices or the driving devices to the branches extending out from the at least one power line and the ground lines. 4. The robotic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the connectors are further configured for connecting the driving devices to the branches extending out from the at least one power line, the ground lines and the at least one communication line. 5. The robotic device as claimed in claim 4, further comprising a plurality of switches or intelligent switches configured for connecting/disconnecting the driving devices to/from the connectors according to the signals/commands. 6. The robotic device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising another plurality of connectors for connecting the sensing devices or the driving devices to the branches extending out from the at least one power line and the ground lines. 7. The robotic device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising another plurality of connectors for connecting the driving devices to the branches extending out from the at least one power line, the ground lines and the at least one communication line. 8. The robotic device as claimed in claim 7, further comprising a plurality of switches or intelligent switches configured for connecting/disconnecting the driving devices to/from the another plurality of connectors according to the signals/commands. 9. A robotic device, comprising: a plurality of groups of sensing devices, each sensing device being configured for sensing an environmental event; a plurality of slave controllers, each slave controller corresponding to a group of sensing devices and being configured for recognizing the environmental event and generating signals/commands accordingly; a main controller configured for receiving the signals/commands from the slave controllers and generating commands accordingly; a plurality of driving devices being controlled by the signals/commands from the slave controllers or the main controller to drive the robotic device to respond to the environmental event; at least one communication line configured for communication between the plurality of slave controllers and the main controller; at least one power line for transmitting power to the sensing devices, the main controller and the slave controllers and the driving devices; a plurality of ground lines; a plurality of branches extending out from the at least one communication line, the at least one power line and the ground lines; and a plurality of connectors, each being configured for connecting one of the slave controller or the main controller to the branches. 10. The robotic device as claimed in claim 9, wherein the at least one communication line, the at least one power line and the ground lines are arranged along a backbone orientation of the robotic device. 11. The robotic device as claimed in claim 9, wherein the main controller generates the signals/commands to control the slave controllers. 12. The robotic device as claimed in claim 9, wherein the connectors are further configured for connecting the sensing devices or the driving devices to the branches extending out from the at least one power line and the ground lines. 13. The robotic device as claimed in claim 9, wherein the connectors are further configured for connecting the driving devices to the branches extending out from the at least one power line, the ground lines and the at least one communication line. 14. The robotic device as claimed in claim 13, further comprising a plurality of switches or intelligent switches configured for connecting/disconnecting the driving devices to/from the connectors. 15. The robotic device as claimed in claim 9, further comprising another plurality of connectors for connecting the sensing devices or the driving devices to the branches extending out from the at least one power line and the ground lines. 16. The robotic device as claimed in claim 9, further comprising another plurality of connectors for connecting the driving devices to the branches extending out from the at least one power line, the ground lines and the at least one communication line. 17. The robotic device as claimed in claim 16, further comprising a plurality of switches or intelligent switches configured for connecting/disconnecting the driving devices to/from the another plurality of connectors according to the signals/commands. 18. A robotic device, comprising: at least one communication line configured for communication between a plurality of controllers, the at least one communication line being arranged along a backbone orientation of the robotic device; at least one power line for supplying power to the controllers, and a plurality of sensing devices and driving devices, the at least one power line being arranged along the backbone orientation of the robotic device; a plurality of ground lines being arranged along the backbone orientation of the robotic device; a plurality of branches extending out from the at least one communication line, the at least one power line and the ground lines; and a plurality of connectors connecting with the plurality of branches and be configured for connecting the controllers, the sensing devices and the driving devices to the branches. 19. The robotic device as claimed in claim 18, further comprising a backbone for fixing the at least one communication line, the at least one power line and the ground lines thereon. 