The present invention provides 5'-modified bicyclic nucleoside analogs and oligomeric compounds comprising at least one of these nucleoside analogs. In preferred embodiments the nucleoside analogs have either (R) or (S)-chirality at the 5'-carbon. These bicyclic nucleoside analogs are useful for enhancing properties of oligomeric compounds including for example enhanced nuclease resistance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An oligomeric compound having Formula II: G-[T-L].sub.j-[R-L].sub.q-R-[L-T].sub.r-E II wherein: each R is a .beta.-D-2'-deoxyribonucleoside; each L is, independently, a phosphodiester or phosphorothioate internucleoside linking group; each T is a monomer of Formula III: ##STR00032## wherein independently for each monomer having Formula III: Bx is a heterocyclic base moiety; Z is C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkyl or C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkyl substituted with C.sub.2-C.sub.6 alkenyl, C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkoxy or one or more fluoro atoms; G and E are each, independently, H, a hydroxyl protecting group or a linked conjugate group; q is from 7 to about 15; j is 0 or from 1 to about 5; r is 0 or from 1 to about 5; and the sum of j and r is at least 1. 2. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein each Z is a substituted C.sub.1-C.sub.6alkyl. 3. The oligomeric compound of claim 2 wherein each Z is substituted methyl. 4. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein each Z is methyl, ethyl or methoxymethylene. 5. The oligomeric compound of claim 4 wherein each Z is methyl. 6. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein each Z is vinyl. 7. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein each internucleoside linking group is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linking group. 8. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein j is 0. 9. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein r is 0. 10. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein j and r are each other than 0. 11. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein j and r are each 2. 12. The oligomeric compound of claim 11 wherein q is from about 9 to about 13. 13. The oligomeric compound of claim 12 wherein q is 10. 14. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein j and r are each 5. 15. The oligomeric compound of claim 14 wherein q is about 10. 16. An oligomeric compound comprising at least one monomer having Formula IV: ##STR00033## wherein independently for each monomer having Formula IV: Bx is a heterocyclic base moiety; one of T.sub.3 and T.sub.4 is an internucleoside linking group attaching the monomer having Formula IV to the oligomeric compound and the other of T.sub.3 and T.sub.4 is H, a hydroxyl protecting group, a linked conjugate group or an internucleoside linking group attaching the monomer having Formula IV to the oligomeric compound; Z is C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkyl or C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkyl substituted with C.sub.2-C.sub.6 alkenyl, C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkoxy or one or more fluoro atoms; said oligomeric compound comprising at least one monomeric subunit that is other than a monomer having formula IV, selected from a .beta.-D-ribonucleoside, a .beta.-D-2'-deoxyribonucleoside and a modified nucleoside wherein said modified nucleoside comprises at least a sugar substituent group, a 4'-S group or a bicyclic modified sugar; and wherein said oligomeric compound comprises from 8 to 40 nucleosides and/or modified nucleosides or mimetics in length. 17. The oligomeric compound of claim 16 wherein each Z is a substituted C.sub.1-C.sub.6 alkyl for each monomer having Formula IV. 18. The oligomeric compound of claim 16 wherein each Z is a substituted methyl for each monomer having Formula IV. 19. The oligomeric compound of claim 16 wherein each Z is methyl, ethyl or methoxymethylene for each monomer having Formula IV. 20. The oligomeric compound of claim 16 wherein each Z is a methyl for each monomer having Formula IV. 21. The oligomeric compound of claim 16 wherein each Z is vinyl for each monomer having Formula IV. 22. The oligomeric compound of claim 16 wherein each of said modified nucleosides comprises at least a 2'-F modified sugar moiety, a 2'-OCH.sub.3 modified sugar moiety, a 2'-O--(CH.sub.2).sub.2--OCH.sub.3 modified sugar moiety, a 2'-O--CH.sub.2-4' bicyclic modified sugar moiety or a 4'-S modified sugar moiety. 23. The oligomeric compound of claim 16 wherein one T.sub.3 is H, a hydroxyl protecting group or a linked conjugate group. 24. The oligomeric compound of claim 16 wherein one T.sub.4 is H, a hydroxyl protecting group or a linked conjugate group. 25. The oligomeric compound of claim 16 wherein each internucleoside linking group is, independently, a phosphodiester or phosphorothioate internucleoside linking group. 26. The oligomeric compound of claim 16 wherein each internucleoside linking group is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linking group. 