Robotic, telerobotic, and/or telesurgical devices, systems, and methods take advantage of robotic structures and data to calculate changes in the focus of an image capture device in response to movement of the image capture device, a robotic end effector, or the like. As the size of an image of an object shown in the display device varies with changes in a separation distance between that object and the image capture device used to capture the image, a scale factor between a movement command input may be changed in response to moving an input device or a corresponding master/slave robotic movement command of the system. This may enhance the perceived correlation between the input commands and the robotic movements as they appear in the image presented to the system operator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical robotic system comprising: an image capture device having a variable focus and an initial focus point; a robotic linkage movably extending from a base to the image capture device; at least one sensor for generating a sensor signal indicating movement of the robotic linkage; an actuator coupled to the variable focus of the image capture device; and a processor configured to determine, based on the sensor signal, a change in distance between the image capture device and the initial focus point, the processor further configured to adjust the variable focus of the image capture device according to a predetermined relationship between a focus setting of the image capture device and the change in distance. 2. The surgical system of claim 1, further comprising an instrument manipulator for effecting a movement of a surgical instrument. 3. The surgical system of claim 1, further comprising a focus sensor coupled to the variable focus and to the processor, the focus sensor transmitting a state signal to the processor in response to a state of the variable focus. 4. The surgical system of claim 3, wherein the state signal comprises a relative state signal, the processor further configured to drive the variable focus to a stop so as to determine an absolute state of the variable focus from the state signal. 5. The surgical system of claim 3, wherein the image capture device comprises a stereoscopic image capture device, and wherein the processor varies a working distance compensation of the stereoscopic image capture device in response to the state signal. 6. The surgical system of claim 3, wherein the processor determines lateral motion of an object in a field of view of the image capture device using image processing, and wherein the processor determines the lateral motion of the object in response to the state signal so as to provide three dimensional motion information. 7. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the predetermined relationship comprises a non-linear relationship between a depth of focus and the distance between the initial point of focus and the image capture device. 8. The surgical system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of image capture devices, each image capture device removably coupleable to the robotic linkage, at least some of the image capture devices having differing focusing characteristics, the at least one sensor further comprising sensors for detecting movement of each image capture device, wherein the processor is further configured to adjust the variable focus of each image capture device in response to signals sent from the at least one sensor to the processor. 9. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the image capture device has a first magnification setting and a second magnification setting, and wherein the processor is further configured to adjust the variable focus in response to a change in the magnification settings so as to maintain a focus point of the image capture device. 10. The surgical system of claim 1, further comprising a display coupled to the image capture device, wherein a display scale of an object shown on the display varies with a separation distance between a focal point of the image capture device and the image capture device. 11. The surgical system of claim 10, further comprising: an input device for inputting a master/slave movement command; the processor further configured to determine a movement corresponding to the the master/slave movement command per a motion scale factor, a processor further configured to alter the motion scale factor in response to relative movement between the initial focus point and the image capture device so as to compensate for changes in the display scale. 12. The surgical system of claim 10, further comprising: an input device coupled to the processor for inputting a movement command; a robotic manipulator coupled to the processor, the processor further configured to determine a movement of the robotic manipulator corresponding to the movement command according to a motion scale factor, the processor further configured to alter the motion scale factor in response to movement of the image capture device so as to compensate for changes in the display scale. 13. The surgical system of claim 1, the at least one sensor comprising an encoder. 14. The surgical system of claim 1, the at least one sensor comprising a potentiometer. 