A washing system for an elevated surface has a) a housing having a liquid application cleaning system therein; b) a support element that supports and elevates the washing system; c) a rigid member extending from a surface of the housing that faces away from a surface to be cleaned so that the cable, when supporting the cleaning system against the surface to be cleaned and connected to the housing at a connection point, exerts a rotational force on the cleaning system in relation to the fixed fulcrum at the roof top; and d) weights provided at a distance and direction from the connection point fulcrum to at least in part counterbalance the rotational force.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for cleaning a generally vertically extending exterior surface of a building characterized by: providing a housing to permit cleaning of a generally vertically extending exterior surface of a building while minimizing movement of the housing away from the building during cleaning of the exterior surface, locating at least one cleaning element with outwardly extending cleaning vanes on the housing for rotation about a generally horizontal axis for cleaning the exterior surface of the building, rotating the cleaning element with a first motor disposed on the housing, dispensing a cleaning liquid from applicators mounted on the housing toward the exterior surface adjacent the cleaning element, during cleaning of said surface, pendently supporting the housing and cleaning element adjacent the exterior surfaced of the building, moving the housing and cleaning element with a second motor disposed on the housing relative to the generally vertically extending exterior surface of the building to clean the exterior surface of the building with the cleaning element, establishing with a counterforce system a continuous substantially perpendicular force on the housing and cleaning element towards the generally vertically extending exterior surface of the building to maintain the cleaning vanes in surface cleaning engagement with said vertically extending exterior surface during cleaning thereof. 2. The method of claim 1 characterized by: providing a first cleaning element and a second cleaning element located generally parallel to the first cleaning element, and rotating the first and second cleaning elements in opposite rotational directions with separate motors during cleaning of the vertically extending exterior surface. 3. The method of claim 1 characterized by: providing a first cleaning element and a second cleaning element, and rotating the first and second cleaning elements during cleaning of the vertically extending exterior surface. 4. The method of claim 1 characterized by: providing a support mountable on the building above the exterior surface; and pendently connecting the housing to the support to locate the housing and cleaning element adjacent the exterior surface of the housing. 5. The method of claim 4 characterized by: pendently connecting the housing to the support with a cable associated with the second motor, and operating the second motor to move the housing and cleaning element relative to the generally vertically extending exterior surface of the building to clean said surface of the building with said liquid and cleaning element. 6. A method for cleaning a generally vertically extending surface characterized by: providing a carriage, locating at least one generally cylindrical cleaning element on the carriage for rotation about a generally horizontal axis for cleaning a generally vertically extending surface, rotating the cleaning element with a first motor disposed on the carriage, pendently supporting the carriage and cleaning element adjacent the generally vertically extending surface, moving the carriage and cleaning element with a second motor disposed on the carriage relative to the generally vertically extending surface to clean the surface with the cleaning element, and establishing with a counterforce system a continuous substantially perpendicular force on the carriage and cleaning element towards the generally vertically extending surface to continuously maintain the cleaning element in surface cleaning engagement with said generally vertically extending surface during cleaning thereof. 7. The method of claim 6 characterized by: dispensing a cleaning liquid toward the generally vertically extending surface adjacent the cleaning element during cleaning of said surface. 8. The method of claim 6 characterized by: providing a first cleaning element and a second cleaning element located generally parallel to the first cleaning element, and rotating the first and second cleaning elements in opposite rotational directions with separate motors during cleaning of said surface. 9. The method of claim 6 characterized by: providing a first cleaning element and a second cleaning element, and rotating the first and second cleaning elements during cleaning of the vertically extending surface. 10. The method of claim 6 characterized by: providing a support above the vertically extending surface, and pendently connecting the carriage to the support to locate the carriage and cleaning element adjacent the vertically extending surface. 11. The method of claim 10 characterized by: pendently connecting the carriage to the support with a cable associated with the second motor, and operating the second motor to move the carriage and cleaning element relative to the vertically extending surface to clean said surface with the cleaning element rotated with the first motor. 12. The method of claim 6 characterized by: dispensing a cleaning liquid with an applicator mounted on the carriage above the cleaning element on the generally vertically extending surface during cleaning of said surface, providing a support above the vertically extending surface, pendently connecting the carriage to the support with a cable associated with the second motor, and operating the second motor to move the carriage and cleaning element relative to the vertically extending surface to clean said surface with the cleaning element rotated with the first motor. 13. A method of cleaning an upright surface of a structure characterized by: providing a carriage, providing at least one cleaning element operable to contact and clean the upright surface of the structure, mounting the cleaning element on the carriage for rotation about a generally horizontal axis, rotating the cleaning element about said generally horizontal axis with a first motor mounted on the carriage, dispensing a liquid toward the upright surface above the cleaning element during the rotation of the cleaning element, providing a support mountable on the structure above the upright surface of the structure, pendently connecting the carriage to the support with a cable, moving the carriage and cleaning element with a second motor mounted on the carriage and associated with the cable relative to the upright surface to clean said upright surface with said liquid and rotating cleaning element, and establishing a continuous substantially perpendicular counterforce on the carriage and cleaning element towards the upright surface of the structure to maintain the cleaning element in surface cleaning engagement with said upright surface during movement of the carriage and cleaning element relative to said upright surface and the cleaning thereof. 14. The method of claim 13 characterized by: providing a first cleaning element and a second cleaning element located generally parallel to the first cleaning element, and rotating the first and second cleaning elements in opposite rotational directions with separate motors during cleaning of said surface. 15. The method of claim 13 characterized by: providing a first cleaning element and a second cleaning element, and rotating the first and second cleaning elements during cleaning of the vertically extending surface. 16. The method of claim 13 characterized wherein: the dispensing of a liquid toward the upright surface comprises spraying of liquid for applicators toward the upright surface during movement of the cleaning element relative to the upright surface. 