A two degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus is provided. The apparatus includes a first driven member rotatable about a first driven axis, a first driver member coupled to a first driven member for rotating the first driven member about the first driven axis, and a link member fixedly connected to the first driven member. The apparatus further includes a second driven member rotatably mounted to the link member for rotating about a second driven axis, with the second driven axis generally parallel to the first driven axis, and a second driver member coupled at a drive point to the second driven member for rotating the second driven member about the second driven axis. The drive point is generally coincident with the first driven axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A two degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a first driven member rotatable about a first driven axis; a first driver member coupled to the first driven member for rotating said first driven member about said first driven axis; a link member fixedly connected to said first driven member so as to rotate with the first driven member about the first driven axis; a second driven member rotatably mounted to said link member for rotating about a second driven axis, with said second driven axis generally parallel to said first driven axis; and a second driver member coupled at a drive point to said second driven member for rotating said second driven member about said second driven axis, wherein said drive point is generally coincident with said first driven axis; said first driven member is a sector of a generally cylindrical body; and said second driven member comprises a generally cylindrical body or sector thereof. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first driven axis and said second driven axis are offset and generally parallel. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second driver members each receive a respective rotary input from a respective mechanical rotary power source. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further including a fixed reference frame, and wherein the first mechanical rotary power source is mounted stationary to said fixed reference frame. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the second mechanical rotary power source is mounted stationary relative to the rotation of the first driven member. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the rotating component of the second mechanical rotary power source is rotatably mounted to said fixed reference frame relative to the rotation of the first driven member. 7. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising an arm fixedly secured to said second driven member. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first driver member is coupled to said first driven member by a first cable means and said second driver member is coupled to said second driven member by a second cable means. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the first and second driver members each receive a respective rotary input from a respective mechanical rotary power source. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further including a fixed reference frame, and wherein a rotating component of each mechanical rotary power source is rotatably mounted to said fixed reference frame relative to the rotation of the first driven member. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said first driver axis and said second driver axis are generally coplanar. 12. A three degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a third driven member rotatable about a third driven axis; a third driver member coupled to said third driven member for rotating said third driven member about said third driven axis; the apparatus of claim 1, mounted to said third driven member; wherein the rotational axes of the said first and second driven axes are generally perpendicular to the rotational axis of said third driven member. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, said third driven member comprising a generally cylindrical body or sector thereof. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said third driver member is coupled to said third driven member by a cable means. 15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said first, second, and third driver axes receive rotary input from respective mechanical rotary power sources, and the third driven axis passes through the bodies of said mechanical rotary power sources for said second and third driver axes. 16. The apparatus of claim 12, said third driven member comprising a partial cylindrical body having an arc-shaped outer surface. 17. A two degree-of-freedom measuring apparatus, comprising: a first rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical first driven member and a generally cylindrical sector first driver member, said first driver member being rotatable about a first driver axis and coupled to said first driven member whereby rotation of said first driver member rotates said first driven member about a first driven axis, said first driver axis and said first driven axis being generally parallel; and a second rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical second driven member and a second driver member shaped generally as a cylinder or sector thereof, said second driver member being rotatable about a second driver axis and coupled to said second driven member whereby rotation of said second driver member rotates said second driven member about a second driven axis, said second driver axis and said second driven axis being generally parallel, wherein the second driver member is rotatably mounted to a link fixed to the first driver member for rotation about said second driver axis, said first driver axis and said second driver axis being offset and generally parallel, and said second driven axis being generally coincident with said first driver axis; a first measuring means coupled to said first driven member; and a second measuring means coupled to said second driven member. 18. A three degree-of-freedom measuring apparatus, comprising: a third rotary drive; said third rotary drive comprising a generally cylindrical or sector thereof third driver member and a generally cylindrical third driven member, said third driver member being rotatable about a third driver axis and coupled to said third driven member whereby rotation of said third driver member rotates said third driven member about a third driven axis, said third driver axis and said third driven axis being generally parallel; a 2 degree-of-freedom measuring apparatus as in claim 17, wherein said 2 degree-of-freedom measuring apparatus is fixedly connected to said third driver member; whereby the rotational axis of said third driver member is generally perpendicular to the rotational axes of the rotary drive members in said 2 degree-of-freedom measuring apparatus a measuring means coupled to said third driven member. 19. A two degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a first driven member rotatable about a first driven axis; a first driver member coupled to the first driven member for rotating said first driven member about said first driven axis; a link member fixedly connected to said first driven member so as to rotate with the first driven member about the first driven axis; a second driven member rotatably mounted to said link member for rotating about a second driven axis, with said second driven axis generally parallel to said first driven axis; and a second driver member coupled at a drive point to said second driven member for rotating said second driven member about said second driven axis, wherein said drive point is generally coincident with said first driven axis, and said second driven member is generally coplanar with said first driven member. 20. A two degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a first driven member rotatable about a first driven axis; a first driver member coupled to the first driven member for rotating said first driven member about said first driven axis; a link member fixedly connected to said first driven member so as to rotate with the first driven member about the first driven axis; a second driven member rotatably mounted to said link member for rotating about a second driven axis, with said second driven axis generally parallel to said first driven axis; a second driver member coupled at a drive point to said second driven member for rotating said second driven member about said second driven axis, wherein said drive point is generally coincident with said first driven axis; wherein the first driven member is a partial cylindrical body having an arc-shaped outer surface; and said second driven member comprises a generally cylindrical body or partial cylindrical body having an arc-shaped outer surface. 21. A two degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a first driven member rotatable about a first driven axis; a first driver member coupled to the first driven member for rotating said first driven member about said first driven axis; a link member fixedly connected to said first driven member; a second driven member rotatably mounted to said link member for rotating about a second driven axis, with said second driven axis generally parallel to said first driven axis; and a second driver member coupled at a drive point to said second driven member for rotating said second driven member about said second driven axis, wherein said drive point is generally coincident with said first driven axis, wherein said first driven member is a sector of a generally cylindrical body; and said second driven member comprises a generally cylindrical body or sector thereof. 22. A three degree-of-freedom positioning and manipulating apparatus, comprising: a first driven member rotatable about a first driven axis; a first driver member coupled to the first driven member for rotating said first driven member about said first driven axis; a link member fixedly connected to said first driven member so as to rotate with the first driven member about the first driven axis; a second driven member rotatably mounted to said link member for rotating about a second driven axis, with said second driven axis generally parallel to said first driven axis; a second driver member coupled at a drive point to said second driven member for rotating said second driven member about said second driven axis, wherein said drive point is generally coincident with said first driven axis; a third driven member mounted to any one of the link member, the first or second driver members, or the first or second driven members and rotatable about a third driven axis; and a third driver member coupled to said third driven member for rotating said third driven member about said third driven axis, wherein the rotational axes of the said first and second driven axes are generally perpendicular to the rotational axis of said third driven member, and said third driven member comprises a partial cylindrical body having an arc-shaped outer surface. 