The present invention relates to a method and device for detecting and/or quantifying one or multiple target molecules present in a solution by quantifying online their binding on specific capture molecules immobilized at different locations (spots) of a surface of an optically transparent solid support without substantial detection of target molecules present in solution. The present invention allows multiple target assays to be performed in a simultaneous detection. More particularly, the invention comprises detecting in real-time the hybridization between capture DNA molecules present on a micro-array and target polynucleotides present in solution. The invention is also related to real-time PCR of multiple targets on a micro-array.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for the detection and/or quantification of different target molecules being bound at different locations of a surface of an optically transparent solid support having a refractive index n1 by specific interaction with capture molecules being immobilized on the solid support surface in the form of an array and being in contact with target molecules being in a solution having a refractive index n2, whereby n1>n2, said method comprising the steps of: (a) illuminating homogenously the surface of the support on which the target molecules are bound with a light beam that reaches the surface of the support having immobilized capture molecules with an angle of 90.degree. plus or minus 10.degree., thereby causing homogeneous excitation of the target molecules; and (b) detecting simultaneously light emitted from the target molecule in at least four different locations in the following way: collecting the emitted light through a side of said support which is inclined relative to the surface of the support on which the target molecules are bound, focusing the emitted light by a lens on a detector surface which is positioned at an observation angle .theta..sub.obin relative to the normal of said solid support surface, such that 90.degree.>.theta..sub.obin>sin.sup.-1 (n2/n1), and obtaining an image of at least 4 different locations that are spatially separated on the solid support surface and being spatially discriminated onto the surface of the detector, wherein the image of said at least 4 different locations that are spatially discriminated is simultaneously obtained onto the surface of the detector and wherein a two-dimensional image of the surface of the support having locations with bound target molecules is in focus onto the detector. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the image has at least 10 pixels and the surface corresponding to a first location has at least 1 pixel difference from a second location. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein a two-dimensional image of the surface of the support having locations with bound target molecules is projected at once onto the detector surface so that pixels data are attributed to the different locations having bound target molecules. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the different locations are arranged in the form of an array and the detected image is formed of at least 20 different locations having immobilized capture molecules and being spatially distant from one another in a two-dimensional pattern. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing the image to discriminate said at least 4 different locations having different target molecules bound thereto. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface opposite to the inclined side surface of the optically transparent solid support is black, covered with a color being black, or covered with a color having an absorption corresponding to the wavelength of the emitted light. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the black surface increases the signal to noise ratio by at least a factor of 1.4 compared to the non black surface device. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the solution comprising the target molecules is subjected to temperature cycles having at least 2 different temperatures in order to obtain amplification cycles. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface of said solid support is maintained flat at temperature higher than 85.degree. C. and wherein said support shows a low self-fluorescence at the wavelengths of excitation and emission used for the detection of the target molecules. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the target molecules are labeled with a dye having a stoke shift of at least 20 nm between the excitation and emission maximum wavelength. 11. A method for performing real-time PCR by performing PCR amplification and detection of amplified targets in a closed device comprising an optically transparent solid support having a refractive index n1, a surface on which capture molecules are immobilized in different locations, and a solution present in said closed device that has a refractive index n2, whereby n1>n2, said method comprising the steps of: (a) performing the PCR amplification of the targets in the solution present in the closed device and detecting and/or quantifying the presence of the targets formed after or during at least one amplification cycle; (b) detecting the presence of the targets bound to their specific capture molecules in the following way: illuminating homogeneously the surface of the support on which the targets are bound with a light beam that reaches the surface of the support having immobilized capture molecules with an angle of 90.degree. plus or minus 10.degree., thereby causing homogenous excitation of the targets; detecting simultaneously the light emitted from at least 4 different locations by collecting the emitted light through a side of said support which is inclined relative to the surface of the support on which the targets are bound, focusing the emitted light by a lens on a detector surface which is positioned at an observation angle .theta..sub.obin relative to the normal of said solid support surface, such that 90.degree.>.theta..sub.obin>sin.sup.-1 (n2/n1), obtaining simultaneously an image of at least 4 different locations that are spatially discriminated onto the surface of the detector, and (c) processing the data obtained in at least one thermal cycle in order to detect and/or quantify the amount of targets present in the solution before the amplification. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the detections of the targets are performed during or after at least 3 PCR cycles. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the detection is performed by acquisition of a single image pixel for the overall surface which has at least one bound target and immobilized capture molecules in the form of an array having at least 20 different locations that are spatially disposed in a two dimensional pattern. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the detection is performed by scanning the array surface row by row. 