A method of loading a plurality of pipette tips on a plurality of mandrels of a pipetter is provided. A plurality of pipette tips are inserted in a plurality of receptacles of a tip loading assembly. The plurality of pipette tips are oriented with respect to each other by a plate. The tip loading assembly includes, but is not limited to, an insertion surface. The insertion surface includes the plurality of receptacles configured to accept the plurality of pipette tips. A receptacle from among the plurality of receptacles includes a receptacle wall and a beveled surface that extends from at least a portion of the insertion surface. A retention force is applied to the plate. The plurality of pipette tips are attached to a plurality of mandrels of a pipetter and are separated from the plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for loading a plurality of pipette tips on a plurality of mandrels of a pipetter, the plurality of pipette tips oriented with respect to each other by a plate, the method comprising: providing a pipettor and a loading assembly comprising an insertion surface including a plurality of receptacles configured to accept the plurality of pipette tips, a receptacle of the plurality of receptacles including a beveled surface extending from at least a portion of the insertion surface; and a plate supporting the plurality of pipette tips; inserting the plurality of pipette tips in the plurality of receptacles of the insertion surface; attaching the plurality of pipette tips to a plurality of mandrels of the pipettor; applying a retention force to the plate by a retainer clip mounted in the tip loading assembly to maintain the plate on the insertion surface; and separating the plurality of pipette tips attached to the plurality of mandrels from the plate; wherein the retainer clip comprises: a post; an arm extending from the post in a first direction; a first hook extending from the arm over a first portion of the plate, the first hook including a first edge; and a second hook extending from the arm over a second portion of the plate, the second hook including a second edge; wherein L.sub.a is a distance between the first edge and the second edge, wherein L.sub.i is a dimension of the plate along an axis extending between the first edge and the second edge, and further wherein the ratio of L.sub.a over L.sub.i is approximately greater than or equal to 0.33. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of supporting the insertion surface on a plurality of walls extending upward from a base of the loading assembly. 