A printhead assembly has a casing. A printhead module is positioned in the casing. The printhead module and the casing are configured so that the printhead module is removable from the casing. The printhead module includes a fluid channel member defining a number of ink ducts along its length and positioned in the casing. A number of printhead tiles are arranged on the fluid channel member. Each printhead tile has a printhead integrated circuit. The printhead tiles and the fluid channel member are configured so that ink can be supplied to the printhead integrated circuits from the fluid channel member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: a casing; and a printhead module positioned in the casing, the printhead module and casing being configured such that the printhead module is removable from the casing, wherein the printhead module comprises: a fluid channel member defining a number of ink ducts along a length thereof, and positioned in the casing, and a number of printhead tiles arranged on the fluid channel member, each printhead tile having a printhead integrated circuit, the printhead tiles and the fluid channel member being configured to supply ink to the printhead integrated circuits from the fluid channel member. 2. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the casing is formed as a two-piece outer housing configured to mount the printhead assembly in a printing system. 3. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein the housing comprises a support frame and a cover portion, the support frame defining a channel in which the fluid channel member and printhead module are positioned. 4. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fluid channel member is formed by an injection molding process. 5. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 4, wherein the fluid channel member has a body portion defining open channels and a lid portion that is positioned on the body portion to form ducts with the channels. 6. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 4, wherein the fluid channel member is of a liquid crystal polymer. 7. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein each printhead integrated circuit is electrically connected to a printed circuit board with encapsulated connections. 