This invention provides a signal processing and signal synthesis technique from a family of signal processing and signal synthesis techniques designed to readily interwork or be used individually in creating new forms of rich musical timbres. Amplitude-envelope controlled time-modulation and pitch-modulation are employed to add rich and attention-getting aspects to solo lines and chords. The amplitude envelope may be measured from the signal being modulated, a delayed version of this signal, or another signal source. Modulation characteristics and parameters may be recalled from stored program control or modulated in real-time by arbitrary control signals, including those derived from the original input signal. The invention may be used individually or in conjunction with other signal processing and signal synthesis techniques in creating new forms of rich musical timbres. The invention may also be used in spatially-distributed timbre construction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for enriching timbre of audio signals by modulating an applied time-delay, said system comprising: first and second incoming audio signals; an amplitude envelope follower generating an amplitude tracking signal corresponding to a measured amplitude of said second incoming audio signal; and a controllable signal processor for altering pitch of said first incoming audio signal responsive to said amplitude tracking signal to generate an outgoing audio signal. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said first incoming audio signal and said second incoming audio signal comprise effectively identical signals. 3. The system according to claim 1, said system further comprising: a controllable scaling element modifying said amplitude tracking signal according to a controllable scaling operation, wherein said controllable scaling operation is determined according to an incoming scale control signal. 4. The system according to claim 3, wherein said incoming scale control signal comprises a signal of MIDI format. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein said controllable signal processor comprises a variable time-delay that is modulated by said amplitude tracking signal. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein said controllable signal processor comprises a variable pitch shifter having a degree of pitch shift that is modulated by said amplitude tracking signal. 7. The system according to claim 1, said system further comprising: a controllable delay element delaying said amplitude tracking signal by a variable delay, wherein said variable delay is controlled by an incoming delay control signal. 8. The system according to claim 7, wherein said incoming delay control signal comprises a signal of MIDI format. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein nonlinear mapping is applied to said amplitude tracking signal prior to processing at said controllable signal processor. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system provides one signal processing layer of a multi-layered signal processing system. 11. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is incorporated into a spatially-distributed timbral realization system. 12. A method for enriching timbre of audio signals by modulating an applied time-delay, said method comprising: receiving first and second incoming audio signals generating an amplitude tracking signal corresponding to a measured amplitude of said second incoming audio signal; processing said first incoming audio signal responsive to said amplitude tracking signal, wherein said processing includes altering the pitch of said first incoming audio signal; and generating an outgoing audio signal in response to said processing. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein said first incoming audio signal and said second incoming audio signal comprise effectively identical signals. 14. The method according to claim 12, said method further comprising: modifying said amplitude tracking signal according to a controllable scaling operation, wherein said controllable scaling operation is determined according to an incoming scale control signal. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein said incoming scale control signal comprises a signal of MIDI format. 16. The method according to claim 12, wherein said processing is performed by a controllable signal processor, said controllable signal processor comprising a variable time-delay that is modulated by said amplitude tracking signal. 17. The method according to claim 12, wherein said processing is performed by a controllable signal processor, said controllable signal processor comprising a variable pitch shifter having a degree of pitch shift that is modulated by said amplitude tracking signal. 18. The method according to claim 12, said method further comprising: delaying said amplitude tracking signal by a variable delay, wherein said variable delay is controlled by an incoming delay control signal. 19. The method according to claim 18, wherein said incoming delay control signal comprises a signal of MIDI format. 20. The method according to claim 12, wherein nonlinear mapping is applied to said amplitude tracking signal prior to said processing. 21. The method according to claim 12, wherein said method is implemented within one signal processing layer of a multi-layered signal processing system. 22. The method according to claim 12, wherein said method is implemented within a spatially-distributed timbral realization system. 