Systems, methods and structures for remanufacturing inkjet printer cartridges and inkjet printer print heads by removing the print head and adhesive holding the print head to a used inkjet printer cartridge, preparing the cartridge housing for a new print head by routing out the used print head and used adhesive to create a new mounting surface for new adhesive and a new print head, placing the adhesive and new print head on the new mounting surface, curing the adhesive and assembling a re-manufactured cartridge from the cartridge housing having a new print head positioned thereon.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for remanufacturing a spent inkjet printer cartridge having a housing, a print head, a flexible board having electrical contacts and adhesive, a filter, a foam and a cap comprising: removing the cap; removing the foam; removing ink from inside of the housing; heating the spent cartridge sufficient to loosen adhesive between the flexible board and the cartridge housing; removing the flexible board from the housing to expose the print head; removing the print head and adhesive by routing the print head and adhesive to cut out the print head and adhesive and to create a new print head mounting surface on the housing; washing the housing after the print head and adhesive have been cut out; drying the housing after washing the housing; installing a new filter on the housing after drying the housing; applying new adhesive onto the new print head mounting surface; placing a new print head assembly over the new print head mounting surface; and, pressing the new print head assembly onto the new print head mounting surface at a predetermined location. 2. The process of claim 1, further including washing the foam prior to re-assembling the cartridge. 3. The process of claim 1, further including removing the filter prior to removing ink from inside of the housing. 4. The process of claim 1, further including curing the adhesive after pressing the new print head assembly onto the new print head mounting surface. 5. The process of claim 1, further including bending the new print head over an edge of the cartridge housing after pressing the new print head assembly onto the new print head mounting surface. 6. The process of claim 1, further including applying heat and pressure to the new print head assembly after pressing the new print head assembly onto the new print head mounting surface, said heat and pressure sufficient to activate said new adhesive. 7. The process of claim 1, further including curing said new adhesive. 8. The process of claim 7, further including electrically testing the cartridge after curing said new adhesive. 9. The process of claim 8, further including inserting a new foam or a washed used foam into the cartridge after electrically testing the cartridge. 10. The process of claim 1, further including installing a cap on the housing and over the new print head assembly after pressing the new print head assembly onto the new print head mounting surface. 11. The process of claim 10 wherein installing the cap is by ultrasonic welding. 12. The process of claim 1, wherein applying new adhesive onto the new print head mounting surface includes applying a two-component, epoxy amine or acrylic based adhesive. 13. The process of claim 1, wherein applying new adhesive onto the new print head mounting surface includes dispensing said adhesive with a robotic dispensing machine. 14. A remanufactured inkjet printer cartridge having a housing, a print head, a flexible board having electrical contacts and adhesive, a filter, a foam and a cap comprising: a new print head mounting surface formed on said housing and under a used cartridge print head mounting surface; a new print head assembly adhered to said new print head mounting surface; and, new adhesive adhering said new print head assembly to said new print head mounting surface. 15. The remanufactured inkjet printer cartridge of claim 14 wherein said new adhesive is a two-component, epoxy amine or acrylic based adhesive. 16. A system for remanufacturing a used inkjet printer cartridge having a housing, a used print head and adhesive bonding said used print head to said housing comprising: a fixture adapted to hold said used inkjet printer cartridge in a fixed position; the fixture including a swivel locking bar adapted to releasable lock said used cartridge in the fixed position; a computer-controlled router adapted and positioned to cut out of said used cartridge said used print head and said adhesive bonding said used print head to said housing to form a new print head assembly mounting surface; a robotic arm including at least one suction cup and adapted to place a new print head assembly over said new print head assembly mounting surface; and, a swivel robotic arm adapted to push a portion of said new print head assembly over an edge of said new print head assembly mounting surface. 