This invention discloses highly scalable and modular automated optical cross connect switch devices which exhibit low loss and scalability to high port counts. In particular, a device for the programmable interconnection of large numbers of optical fibers (100's-1000's) is provided, whereby a two-dimensional array of fiber optic connections is mapped in an ordered and rule-based fashion into a one-dimensional array with tensioned fiber optic circuit elements tracing substantially straight lines there between. Fiber optic elements are terminated in a stacked arrangement of flexible fiber optic circuit elements with a capacity to retain excess fiber lengths while maintaining an adequate bend radius. The combination of these elements partitions the switch volume into multiple independent, non-interfering zones, which retain their independence for arbitrary and unlimited numbers of reconfigurations. The separation into spaced-apart zones provides clearance for one or more robotic actuators to enter the free volume substantially adjacent to the two-dimensional array of connectors and mechanically reconfigure connectors without interrupting other circuits.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated patch-panel system for fiber optic networks, the system being responsive to signal commands for reconfiguration of system interconnections between first and second networks and comprising: an input array of dual ended terminals accessible to input optical lines from a first network on one side thereof, the input terminals being disposed in at least one dimension in a first plane with spaces between the terminals on a second side opposite the side of the first network, said second side defining one boundary of an interconnection volume; a plurality of optical fiber lines removably coupled to the individual terminals of the input array and extending into the interconnection volume; a second, intermediate array of low friction guides in a backbone arrangement adjacent the intervening interconnection volume for collecting optical fiber lines from the input array in predetermined converging sets, the sets being disposed in the intermediate array at different levels relative to the input array; a number of variable length fiber buffers in modular form disposed at different levels adjacent the intermediate array; the buffers each coupling a number of fiber lines from the intermediate fiber line sets to a second network of the system, and compensating for length variations in the fibers while maintaining more than a minimum curvature therein; a controller having a database storing vector data as to existing fiber line interconnections within the interconnection volume for generating position commands, and an automated positioner adjacent the first plane, the positioner including a fiber line engagement mechanism for transferring fiber lines from selected target locations to destination locations within the input array in response to position commands from the controller. 2. A system as set forth in claim 1 above, wherein the controller generates position commands in response to the database to drive the engagement mechanism selectively through existing interconnections dependent on their local vectors such as to avoid entanglements with existing lines. 3. A system as set forth in claim 1 above, wherein the variable length fiber buffers comprise individual modular bodies of low height, each having a number of separate compliant elements within the body that are configured to maintain individual fiber lines at greater than a minimum bend radius and under a predetermined range of tension. 4. A system as set forth in claim 3 above, including in addition a number of splice trays in modular form interconnected to couple the fiber lines from the buffers to the second network, and wherein the system comprises a number of individual buffers and splice tray modules, whereby the system is readily scalable by the stacking of buffer modules and splice tray modules to accommodate additional fiber lines. 5. A system as set forth in claim 1 above, wherein the input array further includes a plurality of docking terminals distributed in non-interfering positions relative to the double ended terminals in the input array to permit temporary retention of a fiber line in a docking terminal when its input location is being reconfigured. 6. A system as set forth in claim 3 above, wherein the individual buffer modules are configured with individual input panels, each having a row of double ended terminals and being cooperative with a different buffer module, the spaces therebetween defining an intermediate interchange volume between the terminals and the buffers, such that the fiber lines between the terminals and buffers principally follow substantially linear vectors in three dimensional space between different elevations in a stacked array of buffers. 7. A system as set forth in claim 3 above, wherein the input array comprises separate row panels having a number of terminals disposed in each row, the terminals in the row panels defining columns and rows with interstices therebetween, wherein the terminals in the rows are laterally movable over a selected distance, and the system also includes lateral shifters for the rows, responsive to signal commands and coupled to the row panels, for enabling the positioner to interweave a signal line through existing fiber line interconnections without entangling. 8. A system as set forth in claim 7 above, wherein the second, intermediate array for collecting fibers comprises a backbone arrangement of low friction, substantially linearizing fiber guide sets each coupling a number of fiber lines to a different buffer module. 9. A system as set forth in claim 1 above, wherein the system includes a voltage generator and probe at the system and the positioner, the voltage generator being coupled to the voltage probe and responsive to signals returned from a terminal, to ascertain the existing configuration of interconnections. 10. A system as set forth in claim 9 above, wherein the terminals include ID tags having unique signal response patterns for returning identifiable signals from the different terminals. 11. A system as set forth in claim 7 above, wherein the input array comprises a plurality of docking terminals, each aligned with a different column of terminals and outside the field thereof, wherein the lateral shifters comprise signal actuated linear actuators responsive to commands from the controller to facilitate interweaving a fiber line through existing interconnections. 12. A system as set forth in claim 7 above, wherein the controller provides elevation and lateral commands to the positioner and row shifting commands to the linear actuators in integrated sequences to interweave the gripper and the engaged optical fiber in a non-engaging pattern through the vectors of existing fiber lines in the interconnection volume. 13. A system as set forth in claim 1 above, wherein the fiber lines include end connectors for engaging in the terminals and the positioner comprises a gripper element transversely engageable to the end connector of a selected fiber line and the gripper is signal controlled for engagement/disengagement of the end connector in selected terminals of the array. 14. A system as set forth in claim 13 above, wherein the positioner includes a video camera scanning the immediate area of the first plane for generating an image thereof. 15. A system as set forth in claim 14 above, wherein in addition the input array includes positional indicia on the input array side facing the camera, and wherein the positioner places the gripper at a coarse target position in accordance with the signal command and the gripper is then positioned more precisely by servo control of the gripper in response to local positional indicia on the array. 16. A system as set forth in claim 1 above, wherein the terminals in the input array are disposed in columns and rows, with inter-columnar spacings greater than the width of the fiber line engagement mechanism, and wherein the system includes a plurality of docking ports intermediate the terminal columns, and the positioner includes a mechanism for laterally shifting a fiber line from a docking port in one column to the adjacent docking port at that elevation in the next column. 17. A system as set forth in claim 1 above, wherein the automated positioner comprises at least two linear mechanisms mounted in parallel spaced apart relation along and adjacent the input array and the input array comprises orthogonally disposed columns and rows of terminals and where the positioner mechanism includes a connector gripper mechanism actuable under signal command to translate a fiber line between columns laterally and to shift to parallelism along the columns for movement along the columns transverse to the rows without interference with existing connections. 18. A system as set forth in claim 1 above, wherein the input array comprises orthogonally disposed columns and rows of terminal positions, and the automated positioner comprises at least two linear mechanisms aligned with the columns and each supporting at least one individual fiber line engagement mechanism, the linear mechanism driving the engagement mechanism therealong to different row positions, the positioner further including a mechanism for rotating the linear mechanisms about their columnar axes, and a transfer device disposed between the linear mechanisms for translating a fiber line between fiber line engagement mechanisms. 19. An automated patch panel responsive to signal commands for controlling the interconnection of optical fiber strands between networks comprising: an input array body including a plurality of dual ended terminals for receiving the different individual fiber strands, the terminals in the input array body being disposed in at least two dimensions relative to a first plane and accessible to external input fiber strands from a first network, the terminals being arranged with intervening adjacent spaces for physical movement between the terminals; a plurality of interior optical fiber strands engaged reconfigurably into the interior side of individual terminals in the input two dimensions in the array; a linear array of guides in a plane spaced apart from the first plane of the input array for coupling the interior fiber strands in a converging pattern to a second network; a number of variable length fiber buffers disposed in two dimensions adjacent the second plane and coupled between the linear array of guides and the second network for resiliently compensating for length variations in fiber strands from the input array to the linear array as the interconnections between the input array and the linear array are reconfigured, and an automated positioner receiving the signal commands and movable adjacent the interior side of the input array to transfer fiber strands in two dimensions from selected input terminals in the input array to destination terminals within the input array. 20. A system as set forth in claim 19 wherein the input array is two-dimensional with columns and rows, the terminals being separated by intervening spaces for receiving the positioner, the positioner being sized to pass in the intervening spaces between existing strands engaged in the terminals of the input array. 21. An automated patch panel as set forth in claim 19 above, wherein the fiber buffers comprise a number of modular bodies, each having a relatively small height dimension, the panel further being configured to define a fiber line interconnection volume between the input array and the linear array, such that the modular bodies are spatially distributable at a given elevation and numbers of the modular bodies can occupy different elevations relative to the input array. 22. An automated patch panel as set forth in claim 21 above, wherein the linear array includes a number of fiber guides open to the interconnection volume along a backbone axis for collecting a number of fibers for passage to the fiber buffers. 23. A system as set forth in claim 22 above, wherein the terminals of the input array are arranged in rows defining substantially aligned columns of terminals, and the system includes shifter mechanisms responsive to signal commands and coupled to each of the rows of terminals, such that the rows of the input array are laterally shiftable in response to signal commands and wherein the positioner is movable along the intervening spaces between columns and the fiber strands are interwoven around existing strands at different elevations by movement under signal command of both the positioner along columns, and movement of rows of terminals as the positioner moves among columns. 24. A system as set forth in claim 19 above, wherein the positioner includes a mechanism for transporting fiber strands comprising at least two columnar transports positioned in adjacent columnar interstices, and a lateral transport mechanism for transferring the selected connector from one columnar transport to the other, said lateral transport mechanism including a mechanism for pivoting into parallelism with the columns. 25. A system as set forth in claim 19 above, wherein the system is configured with a two-dimensional input array and a one-dimensional output array. 26. A system as set forth in claim 19 above, wherein the system is configured with a two-dimensional input array and a two-dimensional output array. 27. A system for automated interconnection of fiber optic line strands in paths which can have different lengths, between an input array distributed in two orthogonal dimensions relative to an interior plane and connected to a first network and connected to receive the fiber optic line strands at different elevations and couple them to a second network, the input array having double ended ports coupled to receive inputs of external fiber optic lines from the first network in the two orthogonal dimensions, and internal fiber optic lines which intercouple the lines across an interconnection volume to different elevations in the multiple outputs, the ports of the input array being distributed with predetermined spaces between the ports along the two orthogonal dimensions relative to the interior plane; a fiber optic line positioner responsive to signal commands and operable in each of the two orthogonal dimensions adjacent the interior plane of the input array, the positioner having a fiber optic line engagement/disengagement device movable within spaces between the ports along the two orthogonal dimensions in the input array; a fiber optic line guide system disposed in the interconnection volume adjacent the input array and defining a fiber optic line collection region including a plurality of fiber optic line guides positioned to converge the lines into a substantially linear array spaced apart from the input array; a plurality of fiber optic line length buffer modules each receiving a different fiber optic line from the fiber optic line guide system and providing a fiber optic line output, the buffer modules being disposed in sets aligned parallel to a selected plane, the sets being stackable in a direction orthogonal to the selected plane; a fiber optic line output assembly receiving the fiber optic line outputs from the buffer modules and coupling said line outputs to the second network, and a controller, including data storage retaining data as to interconnections between the array, coupled to operate the positioner in response to signal commands, to remove a fiber optic line from one position in the input array and interweave it through existing fiber optic paths from the input array to the output assembly to a different position in the input array without entanglement with other lines between the two arrays, wherein the controller includes circuits for updating interconnections as to the positions of the connections between the input array and the output assembly. 28. A system as set forth in claim 27 above, wherein the system further includes, coupled between the output assembly and the second network, the line length buffer modules, which comprise variable length compliance adjustment mechanisms for compensating for length variations in the fiber optic lines in different reconfiguration geometries, and wherein the variable length adjustment mechanisms maintain the fiber optic lines at more than a predetermined minimum bend radius regardless of length. 29. A system as set forth in claim 28 above, wherein the input array is disposed in columns and rows separated by column and row spaces, and wherein the signal commands direct the positioner to follow a pattern which traverses above or below preexisting connections dependent upon the directional vectors of pre-existing connections from the input array to the output assembly. 30. A system as set forth in claim 28 above, wherein the system controller further includes a database retaining vectorial and positional information as to existing connection vectors between the input array and output assembly, and wherein the system controller further operates in response to the database and in accordance with a predetermined algorithm to interweave a connector being transported between an origination point and a destination point. 