An automated machine for transferring solution from a source microwell plate to a destination microwell plate. A plurality of pins is used for transferring the solution. The pins are attached to pin assemblies. The pin assemblies are attached to the circumference of a circular dial that is rotatably connected to the automated machine. The circular dial rotates the pins form a solution removal position to a solution transfer position and then to a pin cleaning position. Solution is removed from individual wells at the solution removal position and the solution is transferred to individual wells at the solution transfer position. The pins are cleaned at the pin cleaning position. A computer is programmed to control the automated machine and the transfer of solution. In a preferred embodiment, the computer is programmed to: 1) execute a saved transfer list, 2) accept a customized input list from an operator, 3) execute the customized input list, and 4) save the customized input list for later execution. In a preferred embodiment, the automated machine is utilized for transferring variable volumes of solution from the source microwell plate to the destination microwell plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated machine for transferring solution from a source microwell plate to a destination microwell plate, comprising: A) a plurality of pins for transferring solution, B) a first actuator device for positioning said source microwell plate at a solution removal position accessible by each of said plurality of pins where solution is removed from said source microwell plate, C) a second actuator device for positioning said destination microwell plate at a solution transfer position accessible by each of said plurality of pins where solution is transferred to said destination microwell plate, D) a pin cleaning position accessible by each of said plurality of pins where each of said plurality of pins is cleaned, E) a circular dial rotatably connected to said automated machine, comprising: 1. a plurality of pin assemblies connected to the outer circumference of said circular dial, wherein each of said plurality of pins is connected to one of said plurality of pin assemblies, F) a computer programmed to rotate said circular dial so that each of said plurality of pins is sequentially moved from said solution removal position to said solution transfer position to said pin cleaning position and back to said solution removal position. 2. The automated machine as in claim 1, wherein said first actuator device is at least one linear actuator for positioning said source microwell plate so that each well of said source microwell plate is positionable at said solution removal position so that said each well of said source microwell plate is accessible by each pin of said plurality of pins. 3. The automated machine as in claim 2, wherein said source microwell plate is rotatably attached to said at least one linear actuator. 4. The automated machine as in claim 2, wherein said at least one linear actuator is two linear actuators. 5. The automated machine as in claim 1, wherein said second actuator device is at least one linear actuator for positioning said destination microwell plate so that each well of said destination microwell plate is positionable at said solution transfer position so that said each well of said source microwell plate is accessible by each pin of said plurality of pins. 6. The automated machine as in claim 5, wherein said destination microwell plate is rotatably attached to said at least one linear actuator. 7. The automated machine as in claim 5, wherein said computer is programmed to control said at least one linear actuator to shake said destination microwell plate in a jerking motion to ensure solution is properly removed from each pin at said solution transfer position and to ensure said solution from each pin is properly mixed in said wells of said destination microwell plate. 8. The automated machine as in claim 5, wherein said at least one linear actuator is two linear actuators. 9. The automated machine as in claim 1, wherein said pin cleaning position comprises: A) a cleaning solution wash station, B) a vacuum drying station, and C) an alcohol rinse station, wherein said circular dial moves each pin of said plurality of pins from said cleaning solution wash station to said vacuum drying station to said alcohol rinse station. 10. The automated machine as in claim 1 comprising plungers positioned over said solution removal position, said solution transfer position, and said pin cleaning station for pushing said plurality of pins into said solution removal position, said solution transfer position, and said pin cleaning station. 11. The automated machine as in claim 1, wherein a microarray is printed onto at least one cell of said destination microwell plate. 12. The automated machine as in claim 1, wherein said computer is programmed to transfer solution from a source microwell plate to a destination microwell plate in accordance with a saved transfer list. 13. The automated machine as in claim 1, wherein said computer is programmed to accept a customized transfer list input by an operator. 14. The automated machine as in claim 1, wherein said computer is programmed to make said destination microwell plate a plate copy of said source microwell plate. 15. The automated machine as in claim 1, wherein said computer is controlled via a local area network. 16. The automated machine as in claim 1, wherein said computer is controlled remotely via the Internet. 17. The automated machine as in claim 1, wherein said computer is programmed to execute a saved transfer list and is programmed to accept a customized input list from an operator and execute said customized input list and save said customized input list for later execution. 18. The automated machine as in claim 1, wherein said plurality of pins is a plurality of pins of varying volume capacity for transferring variable volumes of solution. 19. The automated machine as in claim 18, wherein said computer is programmed to transfer variable volumes of solution. 