A mobile robot includes a robot chassis having a forward end, a rearward end and a center of gravity. The robot includes a driven support surface to propel the robot and first articulated arm rotatable about an axis located rearward of the center of gravity of the robot chassis. The arm is pivotable to trail the robot, rotate in a first direction to raise the rearward end of the robot chassis while the driven support surface propels the chassis forward in surmounting an obstacle, and to rotate in a second opposite direction to extend forward beyond the center of gravity of the robot chassis to raise the forward end of the robot chassis and invert the robot endwise.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method performed by a mobile robotic vehicle for climbing a stair, the method comprising: driving a support surface of the vehicle over an underlying surface towards the stair; pivoting a trailing arm downward against the underlying surface and causing a forward end of the vehicle to raise up off the underlying surface, the trailing arm having a distal end that contacts the underlying surface forward of a center of gravity of the vehicle; further driving the support surface to cause the forward end of the vehicle to ascend a riser of the stair, the support surface generating sufficient traction against the riser to climb the riser as the support surface is driven; and pivoting the trailing arm so that the distal end contacts the underlying surface at a point behind the vehicle while the vehicle ascends the stair. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein pivoting the trailing arm so that the distal end contacts the underlying surface at a point behind the vehicle comprises pivoting the trailing arm to raise a rearward end of the vehicle while the forward end of the vehicle is supported by the first stair. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein pivoting the trailing arm so that the distal end contacts the underlying surface at a point behind the vehicle comprises: pivoting the trailing arm to raise a rearward end of the vehicle while the forward end of the vehicle is supported by the first stair; driving the support surface to advance the forward end of the robot over an uppermost edge of the first stair riser; and pivoting the arm to further raise the rearward end of the vehicle such that the forward end of the vehicle tips downward beyond the uppermost edge of the riser of the first stair. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein pivoting the trailing arm to raise the rearward end of the vehicle while the forward end of the vehicle is supported by the first stair comprises pivoting the trailing arm at a first rotational speed, and then pivoting the trailing arm at a second rotational speed greater than the first rotational speed. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising repeating the method to climb another stair. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein: pivoting a trailing arm downward against the underlying surface and causing a forward end of the vehicle to raise up off the underlying surface comprises pivoting the trailing arm in a clockwise direction; and pivoting the trailing arm so that the distal end contacts the underlying surface at a point behind the vehicle comprises pivoting the trailing arm in a counter-clockwise direction. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising pivoting the trailing arm to an upwards position perpendicular to the vehicle prior to pivoting the trailing arm so that the distal end contacts the underlying surface at a point behind the vehicle. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein pivoting the trailing arm to an upwards position perpendicular to the vehicle does not substantially shift the center of gravity of the vehicle. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein pivoting the trailing arm downward against the underlying surface raises the vehicle to a predetermined angle of incline. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the predetermined angle of incline is an angle at which frictional forces between the support surface and the underlying surface and between the support surface and the stair are sufficiently balanced to prevent backsliding of the vehicle. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein further driving the support surface to cause the forward end of the vehicle to contact and ascend a riser of the stair comprises lifting the trailing arm and using an accelerometer to detect backsliding. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising pivoting the trailing arm to adjust an angle of incline of the vehicle in response to detecting backsliding. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising pivoting the trailing arm away from the underlying surface in response to detecting no backsliding. 