Various robotic devices and related medical procedures are disclosed herein. Each of the various robotic devices have an agent delivery component. The devices include mobile robotic devices and fixed base robotic devices as disclosed herein. The agent delivery component can have at least one agent reservoir and a discharge component in fluidic communication with the at least one reservoir.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robotic device, comprising: (a) a mobile positionable medical device body configured to be inserted through a port or incision; (b) an arm comprising: (i) a first arm component pivotally connected to the body at a first pivotal joint; and (ii) a second arm component pivotally connected to the first arm component at a second pivotal joint; and (c) an agent delivery component associated with the body, wherein the body, the arm, and agent delivery component are configured to be positionably disposed entirely within a cavity of a patient. 2. The mobile robotic device of claim 1, wherein the agent delivery component is disposed within the medical mobile robotic device body. 3. The mobile robotic device of claim 1, wherein the agent delivery component is configured to deliver an agent, wherein the agent is a hemostatic agent. 4. The mobile robotic device of claim 1, wherein the agent delivery component comprises: (a) at least one agent reservoir; and (b) a discharge component in fluidic communication with the at least one reservoir. 5. The mobile robotic device of claim 4, wherein the discharge component is a mixing and discharge component comprising: (a) at least one delivery tube in fluidic communication with the at least one reservoir; (b) a manifold in fluidic communication with the at least one delivery tube; and (c) a cannula in fluidic communication with the manifold. 6. The mobile robotic device of claim 1, further comprising at least one imaging component associated with the body. 7. The mobile robotic device of claim 1, further comprising a first actuator operably coupled to the first pivotal joint, and a second actuator operably coupled to the second pivotal joint. 8. The mobile robotic device of claim 1, wherein the first pivotal joint comprises first and second operably coupled gears and the second pivotal joint comprises third and fourth operably coupled gears. 9. The mobile robotic device of claim 1, further comprising a sensor associated with the body. 10. The mobile robotic device of claim 1, wherein the patient is a human patient. 11. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the cavity of the patient is a peritoneal cavity. 12. A mobile robotic device, comprising: (a) a positionable medical device body configured to be positionable within a cavity of a patient and configured to be inserted through a port or incision; (b) an arm comprising: (i) a first arm component pivotally connected to the body at a first pivotal joint, the first arm component comprising a first actuator operably coupled to the first pivotal joint; and (ii) a second arm component pivotally connected to the first arm component at a second pivotal joint, the second arm component comprising a second actuator operably coupled to the second pivotal joint; (c) an imaging device associated with the device; and (d) an agent delivery component associated with the body. 13. The mobile robotic device of claim 12, further comprising a controller operably coupled to the first and second actuators. 14. The mobile robotic device of claim 12, further comprising a sensor associated with the body. 15. The mobile robotic device of claim 12, wherein the agent delivery component is configured to deliver an agent, wherein the agent is a hemostatic agent. 16. The mobile robotic device of claim 12, wherein the agent delivery component comprises: (a) at least one agent reservoir; and (b) a discharge component in fluidic communication with the at least one reservoir. 17. The device of claim 16, wherein the discharge component is a mixing and discharge component comprising: (a) at least one delivery tube in fluidic communication with the at least one reservoir; (b) a manifold in fluidic communication with the at least one delivery tube; and (c) a cannula in fluidic communication with the manifold. 18. A method of performing a medical procedure with a robotic mobile device, the method comprising: inserting the mobile robotic device into a patient cavity, the mobile robotic device comprising: (a) a mobile positionable medical device body sized to fit within a cavity of an animal and configured to be inserted through a port or incision; (b) an arm comprising: (i) a first arm component pivotally connected to the body at a first pivotal joint; and (ii) a second arm component pivotally connected to the first arm component at a second pivotal joint; and (c) an agent delivery component associated with the body; manipulating a tissue within the patient cavity with the arm; and delivering an agent within the patient cavity with the agent delivery component. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the manipulating the tissue with the arm means further comprises moving the tissue with the arm means to provide access to a target site in the patient cavity. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the delivering the agent further comprises delivering a hemostatic agent. 