A process for creating a lost wax tree, including the steps of assembling a wax tree having a wax pattern and a wax runner, using automated equipment to flex either the wax tree or the wax pattern to bring disconnected sections into proximity, heating at least one of the disconnected sections, contacting the disconnected sections and then moving the sections slightly away from one another. A process for casting a part including the steps of creating a lost wax tree and where the wax tree is later covered with a mold material and the wax tree is removed to create a mold, the mold is then used to cast a part similar to the wax pattern. A lost wax tree having a wax tree with a wax pattern and a wax runner, automated equipment for flexing, a heating element, and automated equipment for manipulating disconnected sections.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for creating a lost wax tree comprising: assembling a wax tree having at least a wax pattern of said part and a wax runner; using automated equipment to flex at least one of said wax pattern and said wax runner to bring disconnected sections of said wax tree into proximity with each other without damaging said wax tree; heating at least one of said disconnected sections; contacting said disconnected sections after heating and then moving said disconnected sections slightly away from one another. 2. The process of claim 1 wherein said flexing step comprises flexing a wax runner. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said flexing step comprises flexing a wax pattern. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said flexing step comprises at least one of bending and stretching. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein said heating step is performed using automated equipment. 6. The process of claim 4 wherein said heating step comprises heating at least one of said disconnected sections to soften at least one of said wax pattern and said wax runner to allow said flexing to occur at the softened sections. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein said heating step comprises heating ends of said disconnected sections and contacting said heated ends together to assemble said wax tree. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein said contacting and moving steps are performed using automated equipment. 9. A process for casting a part using a lost wax tree comprising: assembling a wax tree having at least a wax pattern of said part and a wax runner; using automated equipment to flex at least one of said wax pattern and said wax runner to bring disconnected sections of said wax tree into proximity with each other without damaging said wax tree; heating at least one of said disconnected sections; contacting said disconnected sections after heating and then moving said disconnected sections slightly away from one another; wherein said wax tree is later covered with a mold material and said wax tree is removed from said mold material to create a mold, said mold being later used to cast a part similar to said wax pattern. 10. The process of claim 9 wherein said flexing step comprises flexing a wax runner. 11. The process of claim 9 wherein said flexing step comprises flexing a wax pattern. 12. The process of claim 9 wherein said flexing step comprises at least one of bending and stretching. 13. The process of claim 9 wherein said heating step is performed using automated equipment. 14. The process of claim 12 wherein said heating step comprises heating at least one of said disconnected sections to soften at least one of said wax pattern and said wax runner to allow said flexing to occur at the softened sections. 15. The process of claim 9 wherein said heating step comprises heating ends of said disconnected sections and contacting said heated ends together to assemble said wax tree. 16. The process of claim 9 wherein said contacting and moving steps are performed using automated equipment. 17. A lost wax tree system comprising: a wax tree having at least a wax pattern of a part to be cast and a wax runner; automated equipment means for flexing at least one of said wax pattern and said wax runner to bring disconnected sections of said wax tree into proximity with each other without damaging said wax tree; a heating element oriented to heat at least one of said disconnected sections; automated equipment means for contacting said disconnected sections after heating and then moving said disconnected sections slightly away from one another to assemble said wax tree. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein said automated equipment means for flexing flexes a wax runner. 19. The system of claim 17 wherein said automated equipment means for flexing flexes a wax pattern. 20. The system of claim 17 wherein said automated equipment means for flexing and said automated equipment means for contacting comprises a robot. 