Methods and tools for cleaning pipes or pipe networks based on characteristics of pipes and debris in the pipes. A mobile platform includes a cleaning head and a sensor head. The platform implements a cleaning plan and senses characteristics of the pipe and debris. The cleaning plan is incrementally updated based on the sensed characteristics, and can be automatically updated using software. Many different cleaning tasks can be accomplished using the present platforms including agitation of sediment, pulverization of large debris, and movement of debris to facilitate removal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for cleaning a pipe, the method comprising the steps of: automatically cleaning a first portion of the pipe with a cleaning tool of a mobile platform in accordance with an initial cleaning plan, wherein the mobile platform is: positioned in the pipe; and configured to traverse through the pipe; sensing a change in a characteristic of debris in the pipe with a sensor of the mobile platform; and automatically adjusting said cleaning plan at the mobile platform based on the sensed change, wherein the step of automatically adjusting said cleaning plan comprises utilizing a controller communicatively connected to the cleaning tool and the sensor and configured to automatically adjust said cleaning plan based on the sensed change. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: repeating said steps of cleaning, sensing, and adjusting. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said sensor comprises a sonar sensor. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said sensor comprises a laser. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said sensor comprises a camera. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said sensor comprises a density meter. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said cleaning tool comprises a plurality of cleaning tools, and further wherein said initial cleaning plan comprises selection of one of said plurality of cleaning tools. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said cleaning tool comprises a hydraulic cleaning tool. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said cleaning tool comprises a pneumatic cleaning tool. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said cleaning tool comprises a mechanical cleaning tool. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said cleaning tool comprises a trenching tool. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said cleaning tool comprises a chemical cleaning tool. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said initial cleaning plan comprises a determination of the amount of power at which to operate said cleaning tool. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of adjusting said cleaning plan comprises changing the speed of said cleaning tool. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of adjusting said cleaning plan comprises changing the direction of said cleaning tool. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said initial cleaning plan is devised based on an inspection of said pipe. 17. A mobile platform for cleaning a pipe, comprising: a housing, wherein the housing is configured to traverse through the pipe; at least one cleaning tool attached to said housing; at least one sensor attached to said housing for gathering information regarding a characteristic of debris in the pipe; and a controller communicatively connected to each cleaning tool of the mobile platform, wherein the controller is configured to: automatically adjust a cleaning plan at the mobile platform based on the gathered information; and automatically calculate adjustments to operation of said mobile platform in accordance with the adjusted cleaning plan. 18. The mobile platform of claim 17, wherein said sensor comprises a sonar sensor. 19. The mobile platform of claim 17, wherein said cleaning tool comprises a plurality of cleaning tools. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically cleaning the first portion of the pipe comprises automatically cleaning the first portion of the pipe while the mobile platform is moving in the pipe. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein sensing a change in a characteristic of the debris comprises sensing at least one of the following: a volume of the debris; a distribution of the debris; a composition of the debris; a particle size of the debris; a density of the debris; a depth of the debris; and a hardness of the debris. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically cleaning a second portion of the pipe based on the adjusted cleaning plan. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein automatically cleaning the second portion of the pipe comprises automatically cleaning the second portion of the pipe with a second cleaning tool of the mobile platform. 