The invention relates to methods and compositions for identifying soybean plants that are tolerant, have improved tolerance or are susceptible to iron deficient growth conditions. The methods use molecular genetic markers to identify, select and/or construct disease-tolerant plants or identify and counterselect disease-susceptible plants. Soybean plants that display tolerance or improved tolerance to Phytophthora root rot infection that are generated by the methods of the invention are also a feature of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying a first soybean plant or germplasm that displays tolerance or susceptibility to iron deficiency, the method comprising: (a) detecting in a first soybean plant or germplasm at least one allele of one or more marker locus that is associated with the tolerance or susceptibility to iron deficiency, wherein the tolerance or susceptibility is assayed in a population of soybean in a stand that is known to produce chlorotic soybean plants, wherein the one or more marker locus is a marker locus localizing within a chromosome interval flanked by and including SATT277 and SATT433; and (b) selecting the first soybean plant or germplasm, or selecting a progeny of the first soybean plant or germplasm; whereby the resulting plant displays tolerance or susceptibility to low iron growth conditions. 2. A method of identifying a first soybean plant or germplasm that displays tolerance or susceptibility to iron deficiency, the method comprising: (a) detecting in a first soybean plant or germplasm at least one allele of one or more marker locus that is associated with the tolerance or susceptibility to iron deficiency, wherein the one or more marker locus is selected from the group consisting of SAC1724, SATT319, SAT.sub.--142-DB, SATT708, SATT708-TB, SATT460 and P13073A-1; and (b) selecting the first soybean plant or germplasm, or selecting a progeny of the first soybean plant or germplasm; whereby the resulting plant displays tolerance or susceptibility to low iron growth conditions. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the germplasm is a soybean line or soybean variety. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting comprises detecting at least one allelic form of a polymorphic simple sequence repeat (SSR) or a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting comprises amplifying the marker locus or a portion of the marker locus and detecting the resulting amplified marker amplicon. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the amplifying comprises: a) admixing an amplification primer or amplification primer pair with a nucleic acid isolated from the first soybean plant or germplasm, wherein the primer or primer pair is complementary or partially complementary to at least a portion of the marker locus, and is capable of initiating DNA polymerization by a DNA polymerase using the soybean nucleic acid as a template; and, b) extending the primer or primer pair in a DNA polymerization reaction comprising a DNA polymerase and a template nucleic acid to generate at least one amplicon. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the nucleic acid is selected from DNA and RNA. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein the allele is an SNP allele, the method comprising detecting the SNP using allele specific hybridization (ASH) analysis. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein the amplifying comprises employing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or ligase chain reaction (LCR) using a nucleic acid isolated from the first soybean plant or germplasm as a template in the PCR or LCR. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one allele is a favorable allele that positively correlates with tolerance to low iron growth conditions. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one allele comprises two or more alleles. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one allele is correlated with tolerance to low iron growth conditions, the method further comprising introgressing the allele in the first soybean plant or germplasm into a second soybean plant or germplasm to produce an introgressed soybean plant or germplasm. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the second soybean plant or germplasm displays less tolerance to low iron growth conditions as compared to the first soybean plant or germplasm, wherein the introgressed soybean plant or germplasm displays an increased tolerance to low iron growth conditions as compared to the second plant or germplasm. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the second soybean plant or germplasm comprises an elite soybean strain or an exotic soybean strain. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the marker locus is determined using the mapping population UP1C6-43/90B73 or P1082/90B73. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the marker locus is determined using TASSEL, GeneFlow or MapManager-QTX software. 17. The method of claim 1, comprising electronically transmitting or electronically storing data representing the detected allele in a computer readable medium. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising crossing the selected first soybean plant or germplasm with a second soybean plant or germplasm. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the second soybean plant or germplasm comprises an exotic soybean strain or an elite soybean strain. 20. A method of identifying a first soybean plant or germplasm that displays tolerance or susceptibility to iron deficiency, the method comprising: (a) detecting in a first soybean plant or germplasm at least one allele of one or more marker locus that is associated with the tolerance or susceptibility to iron deficiency, wherein the tolerance or susceptibility is assayed in a population of soybean in a stand that is known to produce chlorotic soybean plants, wherein the one or more marker locus is a marker locus localizing within a chromosome interval flanked by and including SAC1724 and SATT307; and (b) selecting the first soybean plant or germplasm, or selecting a progeny of the first soybean plant or germplasm; whereby the resulting plant displays tolerance or susceptibility to low iron growth conditions. 