A biologically inspired climbing device with toes and spines is provided. The device has toes capable of moving independently from each other. Each toe distinguishes a compliant linkage, which has non-compliant parts and compliant parts. Spines are distributed over each of the toes. The spines have a diameter that is less than or equal to a diameter of an asperity of a surface. The toes with spines could be arranged into one or more feet. The feet could then be organized in legs enabling the device to climb a surface in a gait pattern. The device uses low power and is quiet, leaves no traces or tracks behind, works well on smooth, rough, uneven, porous and dirty surfaces, and is able to carry and support its own body weight.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for climbing on a wall surface or clinging onto said wall surface, comprising: a plurality of compliant linkages neighboring each other and movable with respect to each other; a plurality of climbing or clinging spines for climbing on said wall surface or clinging onto said wall surface, wherein each of said plurality of compliant linkages comprises in a planar arrangement a first non-compliant structure supporting at least one of said spines and wherein said first non-compliant structure comprises an interior cutout through said planar arrangement, a second non-compliant structure, a first compliant structure with a first end and a second end, and a second compliant structure with a first end and a second end, wherein said first end of said first compliant structure is connected to said first non-compliant structure, wherein said first end of said second compliant structure is connected to said first non-compliant structure, wherein said second end of said first compliant structure is connected to said second non-compliant structure, wherein said second end of said second compliant structure is connected to said second non-compliant structure, wherein each of said spines is capable of moving independently from each other and wherein each of said spines is capable of moving in at least two dimensions; and a pin fixated at a location in the space of said interior cutout of said first non-compliant structure to prevent excessive motion of said first non-compliant structure within said compliant linkage. 2. The device as set forth in claim 1, wherein said spines are tapered and have a tip diameter less than or equal to the diameter of said asperity of said surface. 3. The device as set forth in claim 1, further comprising an under-actuated mechanism capable of engaging and disengaging said spine, said spines, said compliant linkage, said compliant linkages or any combination thereof. 4. The device as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a tendon capable of engaging and disengaging said spine, said spines, said compliant linkage, said compliant linkages or any combination thereof. 5. The device as set forth in claim 1, wherein each of said compliant linkages comprises an overload mechanism. 6. The device as set forth in claim 1, wherein each of said compliant linkages comprises a disengagement mechanism. 7. A climbing robot, comprising: (a) two or more legs; (b) each one of said legs having at least one foot; (c) a plurality of compliant linkages are neighboring each other and movable with respect to each other; (d) each one of said feet having a plurality of climbing or clinging spines for climbing on said wall surface or clinging onto a wall surface, wherein each of said plurality of compliant linkages comprises in a planar arrangement a first non-compliant structure supporting at least one of said spines and wherein said first non-compliant structure comprises an interior cutout through said planar arrangement, a second non-compliant structure, a first compliant structure with a first end and a second end, and a second compliant structure with a first end and a second end, wherein said first end of said first compliant structure is connected to said first non-compliant structure, wherein said first end of said second compliant structure is connected to said first non-compliant structure, wherein said second end of said first compliant structure is connected to said second non-compliant structure, wherein said second end of said second compliant structure is connected to said second non-compliant structure, wherein each of said spines is capable of moving independently from each other and wherein each of said spines is capable of moving in at least two dimensions; and (e) a pin fixated at a location in the space of said interior cutout of said first non-compliant structure to prevent excessive motion of said first non-compliant structure within said compliant linkage. 8. The climbing robot as set forth in claim 7, wherein said spines are tapered and have a tip diameter less than or equal to the diameter of said asperity of said surface. 9. The climbing robot as set forth in claim 7, wherein said foot comprises an under-actuated mechanism capable of engaging and disengaging said spine, said spines, said compliant linkage, said compliant linkages or any combination thereof. 10. The climbing robot as set forth in claim 7, wherein said foot comprises a tendon capable of engaging and disengaging said spine, said spines, said compliant linkage, said compliant linkages or any combination thereof. 11. The climbing robot as set forth in claim 7, wherein each of said compliant linkages comprises a disengagement mechanism. 