The present invention provides methods and systems for discretized, combinatorial processing of regions of a substrate such as for the discovery, implementation, optimization, and qualification of new materials, processes, and process sequence integration schemes used in integrated circuit fabrication. A substrate having an array of differentially processed regions thereon is processed by delivering materials to or modifying regions of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: combinatorially processing a plurality of regions on a substrate in a first line comprising a combinatorial line, the plurality of regions having locally uniform processing, wherein the combinatorial processing includes varying at least one of a material, a unit process, a processing condition, or a process sequence, each of the plurality of regions defined by a processing cell enclosing a corresponding region, wherein a bottom surface of a side of the processing cell provides a seal against the surface of the substrate and wherein the processing cell includes a sealed upper surface coupled to side surfaces of the side to isolate processing regions defined above one of the regions from an external environment; removing the substrate from the first line; and placing the substrate in a second line comprising a non-combinatorial manufacturing line to process the substrate in a non-combinatorial substantially uniform manner across the plurality of regions and areas between the plurality of regions. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of regions are site isolated so that the combinatorial processing in one region does not diffuse into nearby regions. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the substrate in a non-combinatorial substantially uniform manner comprises a wet technique selected from a cleaning process, a surface modification process, and an electrochemical process. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the combinatorial and substantially uniform processing produces a structure on the substrate, and wherein the structure is selected from a group consisting of a via, hole, trench, lines, or interconnect, and the combinatorial processing at least partially fills the structure. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the substrate in the non-combinatorial substantially uniform manner across the plurality of regions comprises a process selected from the group consisting of: depositing, patterning, etching, cleaning, planarizing, implanting, and treating. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the process is a blanket deposition process that deposits a layer over the plurality of regions and areas between the regions. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the combinatorial and substantially uniform processing produces a device on the substrate, wherein the device is a discrete electronic component capable of performing a specific function. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate is processed in a substantially uniform manner prior to the combinatorial processing of at least one of the plurality of the regions. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the combinatorial processing of the plurality of regions is performed by one of serially, rapid-serial, or parallel combinatorial processing. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the non-combinatorial substantially uniform processing of the substrate forms one of a blanket substrate, structures, partial structures, devices, or partial devices defined for processing in the plurality of region. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: evaluating the processing after one of the combinatorial processing or after the non-combinatorial substantially uniform processing. 12. A method for combinatorially processing a substrate, comprising: processing the substrate non-combinatorially in a first line comprising a manufacturing line; removing the substrate from the first line; placing the substrate in a second line comprising a combinatorial line to combinatorially process separate regions of the substrate, the separate regions having locally uniform processing, each of the separate regions defined by a processing cell enclosing a corresponding region, wherein a bottom surface of a side of the processing cell provides a seal against the surface of the substrate and wherein a top surface of the processing cell extends between side surfaces of the side to isolate a processing region defined above the corresponding separate regions from an external environment; and returning the substrate to a next process in the first line comprising the manufacturing line thereby exposing the combinatorially processed regions to substantially uniform processing conditions. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the same substrate is used in both the combinatorial processing and the manufacturing line. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein combinatorial processing includes, varying a process parameter selected from a group consisting of materials, processing conditions, unit processes, process sequences, process sequence integration, and process sequence conditions. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the combinatorial processing forms at least one array of differentially processed regions on the substrate. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein the separate regions are isolated from nearby regions during processing. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the array of differentially processed regions are spaced apart from nearby regions. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein the separate regions include one of multiple structures, partial structures, devices or partial devices and wherein the separate regions are tested for a desired property of one of the structure or device after one of the combinatorial processing or after the processing in the manufacturing line. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein the full substrate conventional process comprises a dry process deposition technique selected from a plasma-based technique or a gas phase technique. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein processing fluids are both delivered and removed through the processing cell when performing the combinatorial processing. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the sealed upper surface is a septum through which processing fluids are delivered to the one of the regions. 22. The method of claim 12, wherein processing fluids are both delivered and removed through the processing cell when performing the combinatorial processing. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the top surface is a septum through which processing fluids are delivered to the corresponding separate regions. 