Methods and apparatus are provided for defending against telephone-based robotic attacks. An interactive voice response method is disclosed, comprising the steps of obtaining a script to present to a caller, the script including at least one menu option having at least one personal code; generating a random number for the personal code; and presenting the at least one menu option with the generated random number to the caller. The step of generating a random number for the personal code is optionally responsive to receipt of the call. The method is optionally performed only if one or more predefined criteria defining an attack are satisfied. The disclosed IVR system can optionally monitor the caller response to determine whether the caller enters the generated random number.
Claims We claim: 1. A method comprising: receiving, at an interactive voice response (IVR) system a call from a caller; obtaining, by the interactive voice response (IVR) system, a script to present to the caller, the script including a first menu option and a second menu option, wherein the first menu option is associated with a selection number that is randomly generated by the interactive voice response (IVR) system; and presenting, by the interactive voice response (IVR) system, the first menu option with the selection number to the caller; wherein the selection number is a number that needs to be transmitted by the caller back to the interactive voice response (IVR) system in order for the caller to select the first menu option over the second menu option. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining whether the caller enters the randomly generated selection number. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein a correct entry, by the caller, of the randomly generated selection number provides a confirmation that the caller is a human caller. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the randomly generated selection number is generated in response to a receipt of the call by the interactive voice response (IVR) system. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the method is performed only if one or more criteria defining an attack are satisfied. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the interactive voice response (IVR) system is any device capable of: (i) Providing a message to the caller, and (ii) processing a response to the message by the caller. 7. A method comprising: receiving, by an interactive voice response (IVR) system, a call from a caller; presenting, by the interactive voice response (IVR) system, the caller with a menu, wherein: (i) the menu comprises a first menu option and a second menu option, (ii) the first menu option is associated with a first number that is randomly generated by the interactive voice response (IVR) system in response to receiving the call from the caller, (iii) the second menu option is associated with a second number that is randomly generated by the interactive voice response (IVR) system in response to receiving the call from the caller, and (iv) the second number is different from the first number; receiving, by the interactive voice response (IVR) system, a third number from the caller; when the third number is the same as the first number, determining, by the interactive voice response (IVR) system, that the caller selected the first menu option from the menu, and when the third number is the same as the second number, determining, by the interactive voice response (IVR) system, that the caller selected the second menu option from the menu. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein: the first number is a number that has to be transmitted by the caller back to the interactive voice response (IVR) system in order for the caller to select the first menu option over the second menu option, and the second number is a number that has to be transmitted by the caller back to the interactive voice response (IVR) system in order for the caller to select the second menu option over the first menu option. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein the interactive voice response (IVR) system is any device capable of: (i) providing a message to the caller and (ii) processing a response to the message by the caller. 10. The method of claim 7 wherein: (a) the menu is part of an interactive voice response (IVR) tree, (b) selection of the first option by the user causes the interactive voice response (IVR) system to execute a first branch of the tree, and (c) selection of the second option by the caller causes the interactive voice response (IVR) system to execute a second branch of the tree. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the interactive voice response (IVR) system comprises a processor. 12. The method of claim 7 wherein the interactive voice response (IVR) system uses the first number and the second number to confirm that the caller is a human caller. 13. A system comprising a processor operative to: (i) generate a random number, (ii) insert the random number, into a menu from a script, as a selection number corresponding to an option from a plurality of options in the menu, and (iii) use the random number to identify a selection, by a caller, of the option; wherein the selection number is a number the caller has to transmit back to the system in order to select the option over other options from the plurality. 14. The call processing system of claim 13 wherein the random number is generated in response to receiving a call from the caller. 