A system and method for a biological interface system that processes multicellular signals of a patient and controls one or more devices is disclosed. The system includes a sensor that detects the multicellular signals and a processing unit for producing the control signal based on the multicellular signals. The system further includes an automated configuration routine that is used to set or modify the value of one or more system configuration parameters.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A biological interface system comprising: a sensor comprising a plurality of electrodes for detecting multicellular signals emanating from two or more living cells of a patient; a processing unit configured to receive the multicellular signals from the sensor, process the multicellular signals to produce a processed signal, and transmit the processed signal to a controlled device; the controlled device for receiving the processed signal; and an integrated system troubleshooting routine performed to improve system performance comprising modifying one or more system configuration parameters used by the processing unit to produce the processed signal, wherein the integrated system troubleshooting routine provides a first visual representation of a human figure to the patient, wherein the system troubleshooting routine automatically adapts from a first patient training routine event to a second patient training routine event based on a comparative difference between the first patient training routine event and the second patient training routine event wherein the system troubleshooting routine provides a second visual representation of a human figure and wherein the first visual representation is provided simultaneously with the second visual representation to improve the quality of the system configuration parameters generated. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a remote access routine. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising an internet connection such that a remote technician can send and/or receive data from said system. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the system troubleshooting routine is embedded in a component of the system at a location remote from the patient. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first visual representation and the second visual representation include multiple human body movements. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the multiple human body movements are provided for the patient to imagine said movement. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the system stores a set of multicellular signals while the patient imagines said movements. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first visual representation and the second visual representation include a photographic series of images of a human being. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the first visual representation and the second visual representation are an animated series of images of a human being. 