A robotic tool for assembling a portion of a disk drive includes a movable end effector that includes a first portion and a second portion that is movable relative to the first portion. The first portion may be configured to engage the actuator assembly and the second portion may be configured to engage the flex circuit connector. A controller may be provided to control the movable end effector, causing the end effector to pick up the head stack assembly in a first configuration, move the second portion of the end effector relative to the first portion thereof so as to articulate the head stack assembly into a second configuration that is different than the first configuration, and place the head stack assembly into the base.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic tool for assembling a portion of a disk drive, the disk drive including a base and a head stack assembly, the head stack assembly including an actuator assembly, a flex circuit coupled to the actuator assembly and a flex circuit connector coupled to the flex circuit, the robotic tool comprising: a movable end effector including a first portion and a second portion that is movable relative to the first portion, the first portion being configured to engage the actuator assembly and the second portion being configured to engage the flex circuit connector; and a controller configured to control the movable end effector, the controller operable to cause the end effector to: pick up the head stack assembly in a first configuration; move the second portion of the end effector relative to the first portion thereof so as to articulate the head stack assembly into a second configuration that is different than the first configuration; and place the head stack assembly into the base. 2. The robotic tool of claim 1, wherein the actuator assembly includes a pivot assembly and wherein the first portion includes fingers configured to grip the pivot assembly and wherein the second portion is configured to apply suction to the flex circuit connector. 3. The robotic tool of claim 1, further comprising an air merge nest configured to enable the head stack assembly to be merged with magnets of a voice coil motor. 4. The robotic tool of claim 3, wherein the controller is further operable to cause the movable end effector to merge the head stack assembly with the magnets of the voice coil motor in the air merge nest before the head stack assembly is placed into the base. 