A dynamically configurable robotic system and method for performing surgical operations using a plurality of robotic arms remotely controlled by at least one operator console. The system comprises a track system configured for mounting to a patient support table, such that the track system provides a stable operating platform for the robotic arms and for facilitating placement of a proximal end of each of the arms at a selected position about a periphery of the patient support table. the system and method also have a plurality of base stations for operatively coupling each of the robotic arms to the track system, such that each of the base stations include a housing, a first connector for coupling the housing to the track system, the first connector configured for facilitating movement of the housing along the track system while coupled thereto, and a second connector for coupling the housing to the proximal end of at least one of the robotic arms, the second connector configured for providing at least one of power supply, control signalling, and data communication with respect to the coupled robotic arm. The system and method also have a control unit for coupling to at least two of the base stations and configured for dynamically connecting operative remote control between the coupled base stations and a first operator console of the at least one operator console.
Claims The Embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as the follows: 1. A robotic surgical system for performing a surgical procedure, comprising: a robotic arm removably coupled to a base station that is removably mounted to a track and having motorized movement along the track, the track connected to and around a periphery of a patient support table around a plane defined by the patient support table, the robotic arm having a surgical instrument connected thereto for performing the surgical procedure; an operator console in communication with the base station and the robotic arm coupled thereto, the operator console configured to: (a) receive a command regarding the surgical procedure to be performed by the surgical instrument at a surgical site; (b) calculate a base station position along the track based on a received current base station position, the surgical site and the surgical procedure; (c) provide automated control to the motor to re-position the base station to the calculated base station position; and (d) position the robotic arm so that the surgical instrument is positioned at the surgical site based on the calculated base station position, the surgical site, the surgical procedure and a current position of the surgical instrument; wherein the operator console additionally receives a user input to manipulate the surgical instrument at the surgical site to perform the surgical procedure. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the new base station position is additionally calculated based on the position of a patient on the patient support table. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the position of the robotic arm is additionally based on the tilt of the patient support table. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the current base station position, the current position of the surgical instrument, the position of the patient and the tilt of the patient support table are provided by a plurality of sensors. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the patient support table is positionable within an imaging system. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the operator console comprises a display capable of displaying a medical image of a patient and the system is further capable of performing real-time image guided surgery when positioned within an imaging system. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the imaging system is a CT imaging system, a fluoroscopy imaging system or an MRI imaging system. 8. The system of claim 4, wherein the operator console is further configured to recognize the robotic arm and retrieve an operation configuration for the robotic arm to the operator console to control the robotic arm upon connection of the robotic arm to the base station. 9. The system of claim 4, wherein the command regarding the surgical procedure is pre-planned and stored by the operator console prior to commencing the surgical procedure. 10. The system of claim 4, further comprising a further robotic arm removably coupled to a further base station, the further base station removable coupled to the track. 11. The system of claim 10, further comprising a second operator console and a multiplexer unit for coupling between the first operator console and the second operator console, the multiplexer unit permitting communication between any one of the operator consoles and any one of the base stations and the robotic arms removably coupled thereto. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the multiplexer unit permits simultaneous communication between the operator consoles and each base station and the robotic arms connected thereto, wherein each robotic arm can be independently controlled by each respective operator console. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein the operator console is further configured to generate an impending collision notification based on the current base station position of the base station, a current robot position of the robotic arm removably coupled thereto, a current further base station position of the further base station and a current further robot position of the further robotic arm coupled thereto. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the impending collision notification generated is a haptic feedback. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the operator console is further configured to prevent additional movement of the robotic arm in response to the impending collision feedback notification in the direction of impending collision. 16. A method for operating a robotic surgical system for a surgical procedure, the method comprising: (a) receiving a command regarding a surgical procedure to be performed by a surgical instrument at a surgical site, the surgical instrument connected to a robotic arm removably coupled to a base station; (b) calculating a new base station position along a track removably coupled thereto based on a received current base station position, the surgical site and the surgical procedure, the track connected to and around a periphery of a patient support table around a plane defined by the patient support table; (c) providing automated control to the base station to re-position the base station to the calculated new base station position; (d) positioning the robotic arm so that the surgical instrument is positioned at the surgical site based on the calculated base station position, the surgical site, the surgical procedure and the current position of the surgical instrument; and (e) receiving a user input to manipulate the surgical instrument at the surgical site to perform the surgical procedure. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the new base station position is additionally calculated based on the position of a patient on the patient support table. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the positioning of the robotic arm is additionally based on the tilt of the patient support table. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the current base station position, the current position of the surgical instrument, the position of the patient and the tilt of the patient support table are provided by a plurality of sensors. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising positioning the patient support table within an imaging system. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising displaying a medical image generated by the imaging system of a patient and the surgical procedure is an image guided surgery. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the medical image is a CT image, a fluoroscopy image or an MRI image. 23. The method of claim 19, further comprising recognizing the robotic arm and retrieving an operation configuration for the robotic arm upon connection of the robotic arm to the base station. 24. The method of claim 19, wherein the command regarding the surgical procedure is pre-planned and stored prior to commencing the surgical procedure. 25. The method of claim 19, further comprising generating an impending collision notification based on the current base station position of the base station and a current robotic arm position of the robotic arm removably coupled thereto. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the impending collision notification is a haptic feedback. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising preventing additional movement of the robotic arm in response to the impending collision notification in the direction of impending collision. 