A space based manufacturing system including a control module and a manufacturing module. The manufacturing module contains the tools required for automated processing of materials into finalized components. The control module allows command and control of the manufacturing module as well as communication with earth based systems. For component manufacture, the component requiring manufacture is identified in space, designed and engineered on earth, and manufactured in space using computer integrated manufacturing to tie these processes together. The astronaut in the control module monitors the safety of the manufacturing operation and may control manufacturing in real time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for machining, in space comprising: a first space based module allowing human habitation; a control system in said first space based module; a second space based module joined to said first space based module and having a machining system therein with at least one tool of a type for machining to fabricate a finished part within the second space based module from a starting material, with the tool automatically controlled at least in part by said control system in accord with design and engineering data received from the Earth based communication center by the first space based module and approved by humans in the first space based module; a robotic device in said second space based module operative with the machining tool and controlled at least in part by said control system; an Earth based communication center and a communication network connecting said first space based module to the Earth based communication center, the center having means for designing and engineering said part to be fabricated, with generated design and engineering data and, after approval by humans in the first space based module, communicated to said control system from the communication center; and a space based means associated with the control system configured to receive from the Earth based communication center said generated design and engineering data for fabricating said part using the tool and the starting material in the second space based module equipped with the machining system, wherein said second space based module includes a floor slideable in said second module and having a materials rack mounted thereon and wherein a floor of said second space based module includes floor rollers. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said first module and said second module are joined end to end, wherein an observation window is disposed at the joined ends allowing visual inspection of said second module. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said second module includes a track driven robot. 4. The system of claim 1, further including a plurality of additional machining modules joined together to form a production factory. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said tool is selected from the group consisting of a laser and a drill. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said first space based module has a means for visually monitoring an interior of said second space based module. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said means for visually monitoring includes video cameras. 8. A method for space based machining comprising: providing a machine tool production unit joined to a space based habitable module, wherein said space based module includes a floor slideable in said module and having a materials rack mounted thereon and wherein said floor of the space passed module included floor rollers; identifying in space a component in urgent need of fabrication from a raw material in response to an emergency; sending component information from space to an Earth based network; designing and engineering said component on Earth using Computer Aided Design, and Computer Aided Engineering; transmitting component engineering data from Earth to space derived from the Computer Aided Design and Computer Aided Engineering; reviewing by humans in space said component engineering data; performing a safety review by humans in space to ensure said component may be produced safely; transmitting in space, after approval by humans in space performing the safety review, the component engineering data from a control unit to the machine tool production unit; and automatically fabricating said component in said machine tool production unit using the raw material and under control by the component engineering data. 9. The process of claim 8, further comprising removing said component from said machine tool production unit. 10. The process of claim 8, wherein said fabricating step is monitored by vibration sensors. 11. The process of claim 8, wherein said step of fabricating said component includes removing raw materials from a storage area in the machine tool production unit by a robot, positioning the raw materials using said robot, and shaping, machining, forming and constructing the raw materials so as to produce a completed machine element component or part. 12. The process of claim 11, wherein said shaping is effected by a machine tool selected from a group consisting of a laser and a tapping/dye cutting tool. 13. The process of claim 8, wherein said fabricating step is monitored by at least one camera. 14. The process of claim 13, wherein said fabricating step is monitored by an infrared camera. 