Rinsing and drying a surface of a microelectronic device and the enhanced removal of rinse fluid from the surface of the microelectronic device while the microelectronic device is rotated is provided as part of a spray processing operation. Rinse fluid is generally directed to the surface of the microelectronic device by a dispensing device while one or more such microelectronic devices are supported on a turntable in a generally horizontal fashion. Drying gas is supplied after the rinsing step. During at least a portion of both rinsing and drying steps, a drying enhancement substance, such as IPA, is delivered to enhance the rinsing and drying. Particle counts and evaporation thicknesses are reduced by delivering a tensioactive compound like IPA, during at least portions of the rinsing and drying steps while a microelectronic device is controllably rotated. The tensioactive compound is preferably delivered into the processing chamber during rinsing and drying and rinse fluid, preferably DI water, is preferably dispensed to the microelectronic device surface at a temperature below the dew point of the tensioactive compound. Moreover, the rotational speeds of the microelectronic device during drying and the tensioactive compound delivery concentration, timing and duration are preferably optimized to achieve further reduced particle counts and evaporation thicknesses.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of processing a microelectronic device comprising the steps of: supporting a microelectronic device on a support that is operatively provided within a processing chamber; rinsing the microelectronic device by dispensing rinsing fluid onto a surface of the microelectronic device within the processing chamber; delivering drying enhancement substance into a gas environment within the processing chamber during at least a portion of the rinsing step and for a time period after the dispensing of rinsing fluid is terminated for drying the microelectronic device so that the drying enhancement substance is present at a desired concentration within the gas environment of the processing chamber below its saturation point to thereby set a dew point for the drying enhancement substance; and controlling the temperature of the rinse fluid as dispensed during at least a final portion of the rinsing step to be below the dew point of the drying enhancement substance within the processing chamber for cooling the surface of the microelectronic device during at least the final portion of the rinsing step to a temperature that causes a local cooling of the gas environment so that drying enhancement substance condenses to the surface of the microelectronic device. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the drying enhancement substance is delivered to achieve a concentration of between 1% and 3.6% by volume within the processing chamber. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the drying enhancement substance is delivered at a concentration of between 1% and 3.6% by volume to the processing chamber. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the drying enhancement substance comprises tensioactive compound that is mixed with gas that is non-reactive to the microelectronic device and the tensioactive compound to create the desired concentration of drying enhancement substance within the processing chamber. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the rinse fluid is chilled to a temperature below the dew point of the drying enhancement substance so that the rinse fluid cools the surface of the microelectronic device to below the dew point of the drying enhancement substance to cause a localized condensation of drying enhancement substance onto the surface of the microelectronic device from an adjacent environment of the gas environment. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the rinse fluid is chilled to below 15.degree. C. for dispensing during the rinsing step. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the rinse fluid is chilled to 10.degree. C. or below for dispensing during the rinsing step. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein the drying enhancement substance is delivered at a timing proximate to a transition from the rinsing step to the drying step. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the drying enhancement substance is delivered throughout the drying step, which drying step further comprises rotating the microelectronic device at a rotational speed between 300 and 3000 rpm for enhancing removal of rinse fluid from the surface of the microelectronic device. 10. A method of processing a microelectronic device comprising the steps of: supporting a microelectronic device on a rotatable support that is operatively provided within a processing chamber; rinsing the microelectronic device by dispensing rinsing fluid onto a surface of the microelectronic device while rotating the microelectronic device within the processing chamber; drying the microelectronic device by rotating the microelectronic device after the dispensing of rinsing fluid is terminated within a gas environment; delivering drying enhancement substance into the gas environment within the processing chamber during at least a portion of the rinsing step and for a time period of the drying step so that the drying enhancement substance is present at a desired concentration within the gas environment of the processing chamber below its saturation point to thereby set a dew point for the drying enhancement substance; and controlling the temperature of the rinse fluid as dispensed during at least a final portion of the rinsing step to be below the dew point of the drying enhancement substance within the processing chamber for cooling the surface of the microelectronic device during at least the final portion of the rinsing step to a temperature that causes a local cooling of the gas environment so that drying enhancement substance condenses to the surface of the microelectronic device. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the drying enhancement substance is delivered to achieve a concentration of between 1% and 3.6% by volume within the processing chamber. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the drying enhancement substance is delivered at a concentration of between 1% and 3.6% by volume to the processing chamber. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the drying enhancement substance comprises tensioactive compound that is mixed with gas that is non-reactive to the microelectronic device and the tensioactive compound to create the desired concentration of drying enhancement substance within the processing chamber. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the rinse fluid is chilled to a temperature below the dew point of the drying enhancement substance so that the rinse fluid cools the surface of the microelectronic device to below the dew point of the drying enhancement substance to cause a localized condensation of drying enhancement substance onto the surface of the microelectronic device from an adjacent environment of the gas environment. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the rinse fluid is chilled to below 15.degree. C. for dispensing during the rinsing step. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the rinse fluid is chilled to 10.degree. C. or below for dispensing during the rinsing step. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the drying enhancement substance is delivered at a timing proximate to a transition from the rinsing step to the drying step. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the drying enhancement substance is delivered throughout the drying step, which drying step further comprises rotating the microelectronic device at a rotational speed between 300 and 3000 rpm. 