A handle used to control movement of a medical instrument. The medical instrument may be coupled to a robotic arm that is connected to a controller. The medical instrument may have a plurality of functions such as wrist locking and motion scaling. One of the functions may be selected through a graphical user interface operated by the end user. The handle may have a plurality of buttons. One of the buttons may allow the end user to control the selected function. For example, when wrist locking/unlocking is selected, depressing the button can toggle the medical instrument wrist between a locked state and an unlocked state.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical robotic system comprising: a medical instrument; a control input device constructed so as to be grippable by a hand of a user while being manipulated by the hand of the user to command corresponding movement of the medical instrument, the control input device having a switch mechanism positioned on the control input device so as to be switchable by a digit of the hand of the user without releasing a grip of the control input device when the hand of the user is gripping the control input device; a computer screen having a graphical user interface for user selection of a selected function for the switch mechanism from a plurality of user selectable functions including motion scaling; and a controller configured to control robotic movement of the medical instrument in response to user manipulation of the control input device and alter such controlled movement by applying a motion scale factor selected by the user from a set of at least three motion scale factors of different magnitudes, wherein an actuation of the switch mechanism by the user changes the applied motion scale factor to the next motion scale factor in the set, while controlling the robotic movement of the medical instrument in response to the user manipulation of the control input device and when the selected function is motion scaling to scale corresponding movement of the control input device and the medical instrument. 2. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the medical instrument comprises end effector jaws, and the control input device comprises a grasper actuatable by the hand of the user when the hand is gripping the control input device so that the end effector jaws close in response to actuation of the grasper. 3. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the medical instrument comprises a wrist coupling an end effector to a shaft, the plurality of selectable functions includes wrist locking, and the controller is configured to lock and unlock the wrist according to a state of the switch mechanism when the selected function is wrist locking. 4. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the control input device has a plurality of manually operable buttons, and the switch mechanism comprises one of the plurality of manually operable buttons. 5. The medical robotic system of claim 1, further comprising: an image capturing device; and a video console coupled to the image capturing device so as to display images captured by the image capturing device while the user robotically manipulates the medical instrument through the control input device. 6. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of user selectable functions is identified on the computer screen, and further comprising: a user manipulatable input device associated with the graphical user interface so as to facilitate user selection of one of the plurality of user selectable functions identified on the computer screen. 7. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of user selectable functions is identified on the computer screen, and further comprising: a voice activated mechanism associated with the graphical user interface so as to facilitate user selection of one of the plurality of user selectable functions identified on the computer screen. 