The invention is directed to a system and method for releasably holding a surgical instrument (14), such as an endoscopic instrument configured for delivery through a small percutaneous penetration in a patient. The instrument comprises an elongate shaft (100) with a pair of mounting pins (116) laterally extending from the shaft between its proximal and distal ends. An instrument holder comprises a support having a central bore (202) and an axially extending slot (204) for receiving the instrument shaft and the mounting pins. A pair of locking slots (206) are cut into the support transversely to and in communication with the axial slot so that the mounting pins can be rotated within the locking slots. The instrument support further includes a latch assembly for automatically locking the mounting pins within the locking slots to releasably couple the instrument to the instrument holder. With this twist-lock motion, the surgeon can rapidly engage and disengage various instruments from the holder during a surgical procedure, such as open surgery, laparoscopy or thoracoscopy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical instrument comprising: a shaft having a distal end and a proximal end; a formation at the distal end of said shaft, said formation movable relative to said shaft in a first degree of freedom; at least one elongate element connected to the formation to cause movement in said first degree of freedom in response to movement of said at least one elongate element; at least one actuated body disposed at the proximal end of said shaft, said at least one actuated body coupled to said at least one elongate element such that driving said at least one actuated body causes movement of said at least one elongate element; said shaft detachably coupleable to an actuating mechanism for selectively driving said at least one actuated body; said shaft further detachably coupleable to a robotic manipulator arm for moving said shaft in at least one degree of freedom, said manipulator arm supporting said actuating mechanism; wherein said robotic manipulator arm is tart of a remote centering mechanism operable to pivot said shaft about a fixed insertion point. 2. The instrument of claim 1, further comprising said actuating mechanism. 3. The instrument of claim 1, wherein said movement of said elongate element comprises pulling said elongate element. 4. The instrument of claim 1, said formation comprising a pair of jaws, wherein said at least one actuated body comprises a pair of actuator pins axially slidable to open and close said pair of jaws. 5. The instrument of claim 4, further comprising said actuating mechanism, wherein said actuating mechanism comprises at least one rotatable actuating body coupleable with said at least one actuated body, said at least one actuated body driveable by said rotatable actuating body when said actuated and actuating bodies are operably engaged. 6. The instrument of claim 5, said actuating mechanism further comprising a second rotatable actuating body for moving said shaft in a second degree of freedom. 7. The instrument of claim 6, said second degree of freedom comprising rotating said shaft about its longitudinal axis. 8. The instrument of claim 6, said second degree of freedom comprising moving said shaft axially along its longitudinal axis. 9. The instrument of claim 1, wherein said end effector comprises a scalpel. 10. A robotic surgical system, comprising: a robotic manipulator arm; a drive assembly disposed on the robotic manipulator arm, said drive assembly operatively coupled to a control unit operable by inputs from an operator; a surgical instrument removably coupleable to said drive assembly, said instrument having a proximal portion and a distal portion, said instrument including at least one distal end effector member, said proximal portion comprising a first plurality of movable bodies; said instrument comprising a plurality of joints, at least one of said joints being coupled to said end effector member, said joints being coupled to said first plurality of movable bodies by a plurality of drive members; and said drive assembly having a second plurality of movable bodies, said second plurality of movable bodies engageable with said first plurality of movable bodies such that the operator's inputs to the control unit cause the drive members to move, thereby producing a corresponding movement of at least one of said joints; wherein said robotic manipulator arm is part of a remote centering mechanism operable to pivot said shaft about a fixed insertion point. 11. A robotic surgical system, comprising: a robotic manipulator arm; a drive assembly comprising a plurality of links, joints and motors, said drive assembly operatively coupled to a control unit operable by inputs from an operator, said drive assembly disposed on said robotic manipulator arm; a surgical instrument removably coupleable to said drive assembly, said instrument having a proximal portion and a distal portion, said instrument including at least one distal end effector member, said proximal portion comprising a first plurality of movable bodies; said instrument comprising a plurality of joints, at least one of said joints being coupled to said end effector member, said joints being coupled to said first plurality of movable bodies by a plurality of drive members; said drive assembly having a second plurality of movable bodies coupled to said plurality of motors, said second plurality of movable bodies removably engageable with said first plurality of movable bodies such that said operator's inputs to the control unit cause the drive members to move, thereby producing a corresponding movement of at least one of said joints; wherein said robotic manipulator arm is part of a remote centering mechanism operable to pivot said shaft about a fixed insertion point. 12. A robotic surgical system, comprising: a robotic manipulator arm; a drive assembly comprising a plurality of linkages and motors, said drive assembly operatively coupled to a control unit comprising a computer, said control unit operable by inputs from an operator, said drive assembly disposed on said robotic manipulator arm; a surgical instrument removably coupleable to said drive assembly, said instrument having a proximal portion having an interface and a distal portion, and the proximal portion comprising a first plurality of movable bodies; said instrument including at least first and second distal end effector members, said first and second members coupled to corresponding first and second drive members; said instrument further comprising a plurality of distal joints, at least one of said joints being coupled to said end effector members in such a manner that said end effector members are movable independently of each other as a result of movement of said drive members, each drive member being engaged to one of said first plurality of movable bodies; said joints being coupled to said first plurality of movable bodies by a plurality of drive members; said drive assembly having a second plurality of movable bodies coupled to said plurality of motors, said second plurality of movable bodies removably engageable with said first plurality of movable bodies such that said operator's inputs to the control unit cause the drive members to move, thereby producing a corresponding movement of at least one of said joints; wherein said robotic manipulator arm is part of a remote centering mechanism operable to pivot said shaft about a fixed insertion point. 13. A surgical instrument comprising: a shaft having a distal portion and a proximal portion, said distal portion movable relative to said proximal portion in a first degree of freedom; at least one elongate element connected to the distal portion to cause movement in said first degree of freedom in response to movement of said at least one elongate element, at least one actuated body disposed at the proximal portion of said shaft, said at least one actuated body comprising a first actuated body coupled to said at least one elongate element such that driving said first actuated body causes movement of said at least one elongate element; said shaft detachably coupleable to an actuating mechanism for selectively driving said at least one actuated body, said actuating mechanism disposed on a robotic manipulator arm; wherein said robotic manipulator arm is part of a remote centering mechanism operable to pivot said shaft about a fixed insertion point. 14. A robotic surgical system, comprising: a robotic manipulator arm; a drive assembly, said drive assembly operatively coupled to a control unit operable by inputs from an operator, said drive assembly disposed on said robotic manipulator arm; a surgical instrument removably coupleable to said drive assembly, said instrument having a proximal portion and a distal portion, said proximal portion comprising a first plurality of movable bodies, said distal portion coupled to said first plurality of movable bodies by a plurality of drive members; and said drive assembly having a second plurality of movable bodies, said second plurality of movable bodies engageable with said first plurality of movable bodies such that the operator's inputs to the control unit cause the drive members to move, thereby producing a corresponding movement of said distal portion wherein said robotic manipulator arm is part of a remote centering mechanism operable to pivot said shaft about a fixed insertion point. 