A device defining a chamber for receiving a substance and a thermoplastic portion in fluid communication with the chamber is provided along with a method of filling and sealing the substance within the chamber. The thermoplastic portion defines a penetrable region that is penetrable by a filling member and is heat resealable to hermetically seal an aperture therein by applying laser radiation at a predetermined wavelength and power. The thermoplastic portion comprises a thermoplastic body defining a predetermined wall thickness and includes a styrene block copolymer, an olefin and a predetermined amount of pigment allowing the body to absorb laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength, substantially prevent the passage of radiation through the predetermined wall thickness, and hermetically seal the aperture in the penetrable region in a predetermined time period. The body includes a predetermined amount of lubricant that reduces friction forces at an interface of the filling member and body during penetration thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: filling a device defining a chamber, a thermoplastic portion in fluid communication with the chamber, and a penetrable region of the thermoplastic portion, wherein the thermoplastic portion includes a first polymeric material in a first amount by weight including a styrene block copolymer and defining a first elongation, and a second polymeric material in a second amount by weight that is less then the first amount, including at least one of an ethylene alpha-olefin, a polyolefin, and an olefin, and defining a second elongation that is less than the first elongation, the filling step comprising the following steps: penetrating the penetratable region of the thermoplastic portion with a non-coring, conically-pointed tip of an injection member defining at least one flow aperture located adjacent to the tip and connectable in fluid communication with a source of substance such that the flow aperture of the injection member is in fluid communication with the chamber of the device, and substantially preventing the formation of particles released into the chamber from the thermoplastic portion during penetration by the injection member; reducing friction forces at the interface of the injection member and penetrable region with a lubricant; introducing the substance through the injection member and into the chamber of the device, withdrawing the injection member from the penetrable region, and substantially preventing the formation of particles released into the chamber from the thermoplastic portion during withdrawal of the injection member; and hermetically sealing an aperture formed in the penetrable region of the thermoplastic portion. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the hermetic sealing step includes thermally resealing the penetrated thermoplastic portion. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the hermetic sealing step includes transmitting radiation onto the penetrated region. 4. A method as defined in claim 3, wherein the hermetic sealing step includes transmitting radiation at a predetermined wavelength onto the penetrated region. 5. A method as defined in claim 4, wherein the hermetic sealing step includes transmitting radiation at a predetermined power into the penetrated region. 6. A method as defined in claim 4, wherein the hermetic sealing step includes transmitting laser radiation at a predetermined wavelength onto the penetrated region of the thermoplastic portion. 7. A method as defined in claim 6, wherein the thermoplastic portion defines a predetermined wall thickness in an axial direction thereof and includes a predetermined amount of pigment, and the hermetic sealing step includes substantially absorbing within the pigmented thermoplastic portion laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength and substantially preventing the passage of radiation through the predetermined wall thickness thereof. 8. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of providing a device defining a chamber, a thermoplastic portion in fluid communication with the chamber, and a penetrable region of the thermoplastic portion, wherein the thermoplastic portion includes a first polymeric material in a first amount by weight including a styrene block copolymer and defining a first elongation, and a second polymeric material in a second amount by weight that is less then the first amount, including at least one of an ethylene alpha-olefin, a polyolefin, and an olefin, and defining a second elongation that is less than the first elongation. 9. A method as defined in claim 8, wherein the providing a device step includes providing a thermoplastic portion including a first material in a first amount within the range of about 80% to about 97% by weight and a second material in a second amount within the range of about 3% to about 20% by weight. 10. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein at least one of: (i) the thermoplastic portion includes a predetermined amount of lubricant that reduces friction forces at an interface of the injection member and penetrable region of the thermoplastic portion, and (ii) the injection member includes thereon a lubricant. 11. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the hermetic sealing step includes hermetically sealing the aperture formed in the penetrable region of the thermoplastic portion in a time period of less than about two seconds. 12. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the steps of molding the thermoplastic portion and a body of the device forming the chamber from plastic under a substantially laminar flow; and prior to allowing the thermoplastic portion and body to cool to an ambient temperature, assembling the thermoplastic portion and body and forming a sealed, sterile chamber therebetween. 