A system for milking animals comprises a plurality of milking machines (107), a common vacuum source arrangement (102-105), and a vacuum conduit system (101, 106a-l) connecting each of said milking machines to the common vacuum source arrangement, wherein each of the milking machines is connected to the common vacuum source arrangement via an air flow regulation device (108). Preferably, the common vacuum source arrangement comprises at least one vacuum pump (103-105) and a header tank (102), and each of the air flow regulation devices is provided to regulate the air flow from the milking machine, to which it is connected, to be lower than a threshold value.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for milking animals, comprising: a plurality of milking machines, a common vacuum source arrangement, and a vacuum conduit system connecting each of said milking machines to said common vacuum source arrangement, wherein each of said milking machines is connected to said common vacuum source arrangement via an air flow regulation device, wherein each of said air flow regulation devices includes a flow sensor provided for sensing the air flow from the milking machine, to which it is connected, and a valve provided for controlling said air flow in response to the flow sensed by the flow sensor. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said common vacuum source arrangement comprises at least one vacuum pump and a header tank, and said vacuum conduit system is connected to said header tank. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of said air flow regulation devices is provided to regulate the air flow from the milking machine, to which it is connected, to be lower than a threshold value. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of said milking machines is arranged to operate in one state selected from a set of different states having different vacuum requirements independently of the state of operation of other ones of said milking machines. 5. The system according to claim 4, wherein said set of different states include milking, teat cup cleaning and milking machine cleaning states. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of said air flow regulation devices comprises a fixed flow restrictor, a vacuum sensor arranged upstream of the fixed flow restrictor and provided for sensing the vacuum level, and a valve provided for controlling the air flow from the milking machine, to which it is connected, in response to the vacuum level sensed by the vacuum sensor. 7. The system according to claim 6, wherein said valve is a vacuum controlled valve provided upstream of said fixed flow restrictor and of said vacuum sensor. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein said valve is provided upstream of said flow sensor. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein said vacuum conduit system comprises at least one vacuum ring line connected to said common vacuum source arrangement and a plurality of milking machine connection conduits provided for connecting each milking machine to said vacuum ring line conduit. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein each of said air flow regulation devices is arranged at a respective one of said milking machine connection conduits. 11. A method for milking animals in a system for milking animals comprising a plurality of milking machines, a common vacuum source arrangement, and a vacuum conduit system connecting each of said milking machines to said common vacuum source arrangement, wherein detecting the air flow from each of said milking machines and controlling the air flow from each of said milking machines is in response to the respective detected air flow. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the air flow from each of the milking machines is controlled to be lower than a threshold value. 