Disclosed herein is a microplate comprising a plurality of wells and methods and systems comprising such microplates, wherein an individual well comprises an opaque or non-transparent surface at or near the bottom of the well. The microplates herein can provide improved visualization of the process of filling a well with a liquid reagent. The microplates can be configured to perform chemical analysis, such as polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or nucleic acid detection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microplate comprising: a body and a plurality of wells, wherein each well of the plurality of wells comprises a bottom and a sidewall, wherein the sidewall is at least partially transparent and wherein the bottom comprises an opaque region, and wherein the bottom further comprises an outer surface and a textured inner surface. 2. The microplate of claim 1, wherein the bottoms of the wells each have a substantially horizontal portion, and wherein the opaque region is confined to the substantially horizontal portion. 3. The microplate of claim 1, wherein the plurality of wells are configured to contain a liquid such that when viewed from openings of the plurality of wells, the opaque region has a different appearance for wells containing liquid than for the wells that do not contain liquid. 4. The microplate of claim 1, wherein the textured inner surface of the well scatters less light when in contact with liquid than when the textured inner surface of well is not in contact with liquid. 5. The microplate of claim 1, wherein the opaque region comprises a black dot on the outer surface. 6. The microplate of claim 1, wherein the opaque region is printed onto the outer surface. 7. The microplate of claim 1, wherein the textured inner surface is configured to reflect light from the opaque region. 8. The microplate of claim 1, wherein the textured inner surface is configured to divert light from the opaque region. 9. A system comprising: a microplate comprising: a body and a plurality of wells, each well of the plurality of wells comprising a bottom, a textured surface, and a sidewall, wherein the sidewall is at least partially transparent and wherein the bottom comprises an opaque region; and an illumination device configured to receive the microplate such that light from the illumination device passing through the wells of the microplate is scattered by the textured surface, thereby increasing a contrast of a first well of the plurality of wells containing liquid compared to a second well of the plurality of wells not containing liquid. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the illumination device comprises a body, a light source, and an illumination surface, wherein the light source illuminates the illumination surface and wherein the illumination surface is configured to be positioned under the microplate when received. 11. The system of claim 9 further comprising a holder, wherein the holder is configured to hold the microplate and the illumination device is configured to receive the holder and the microplate. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the holder is configured to fit into a centrifuge for microplates. 13. The system of claim 9 wherein the textured surface scatters less light when in contact with liquid, thereby increasing a contrast of the opaque region of a first well of the plurality of wells containing liquid compared to a second well of the plurality of wells not containing liquid. 14. A method comprising: obtaining a microplate comprising a body and a plurality of wells each comprising a bottom and a sidewall, wherein the sidewall is at least partially transparent and wherein the bottom comprises an opaque region; adding a liquid to at least one of the wells; observing at least a first well containing liquid and a second well not containing liquid from above the microplate; and determining whether or not liquid has been added to the first well and the second well by comparing a contrast of the opaque region of the first well with a contrast of the opaque region of the second well. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the observing of the appearance of the opaque region is performed by a person. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the observing of the appearance of the opaque region is performed by an instrument. 17. The method of claim 14, further comprising illuminating the plurality of wells so as to increase a contrast between the first well and the second well. 18. The method of claim 14, further comprising illuminating a textured inner surface of each of the plurality of wells, wherein liquid in contact with the textured inner surface causes reduced scattering compared to when liquid is not in contact which the textured inner surface. 