A pipet tip handling apparatus comprises a deep well plate that has a plurality of wells. Each of a first plurality of pipet tips has a head portion and a shank portion. A first tray is seated on the deep well plate and has openings for receiving the first pipet tips. The shank portions of the first pipet tips extend through the openings in the first tray and into the wells of the deep well plate. Each of a second plurality of pipet tips has a head portion and a shank portion. A second tray includes openings for receiving the second pipet tips. The shank portions of the second pipet tips extend through the openings of the second tray and into the head portions of the first pipet tips. The head portions of the first pipet tips support the second tray.
Claims Having described the invention, the following is claimed: 1. An apparatus comprising; a deep well plate having a plurality of wells; wherein the plurality of wells are integral to the deep well plate, and further comprising a grip pad laterally surrounding said deep well plate; a first plurality of pipet tips, each having a head portion and a shank portion; a first tray seated on the deep well plate and having openings for receiving the first pipet tips, the shank portions of the first pipet tips extending through the openings in the first tray and into the wells of the deep well plate, wherein the first tray includes a lip extending from a bottom surface of the first tray, substantially orthogonal to the bottom surface and substantially parallel to sides of the deep well plate when the first tray is seated on the deep well plate; a second plurality of pipet tips, each having a head portion and a shank portion; and a second tray having openings for receiving the second pipet tips, wherein the shank portions of the second pipet tips extend through the openings of the second tray and into the head portions of the first pipet tips, the head portions of the first pipet tips supporting the second tray. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each well of the deep well plate corresponds with an individual volume for receiving one of the first pipet tips. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first plurality of pipet tips comprises 96 first pipet tips, the deep well plate having 96 individual volumes for receiving the shank portions of the first pipet tips. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first tray engages only the deep well plate and the first pipet tips. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second tray engages only the first pipet tips and the second pipet tips. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the head portions of the first pipet tips have a predetermined height for allowing a robot to readily grasp the first pipet tips. 7. An apparatus comprising; a deep well plate comprising a rectangular base and having an array of wells, each of the wells defining an individual volume; wherein the plurality of wells are integral to the deep well plate, and further comprising a grip pad laterally surrounding said deep well plate; a first plurality of pipet tips, each having a head portion and a shank portion; a first tray having openings for receiving the first pipet tips, wherein the shank portions of the first pipet tips extend through the openings in the first tray and into the volumes in the deep well plate, the first tray having a lip for seating the first tray on the deep well plate, wherein the first tray includes a lip extending from a bottom surface of the first tray, substantially orthogonal to the bottom surface and substantially parallel to sides of the deep well plate when the first tray is seated on the deep well plate; a second plurality of pipet tips, each having a head portion and a shank portion; and a second tray having openings for receiving the second pipet tips, wherein the shank portions of the second pipet tips extend through the openings in the second tray and into the head portions of the first pipet tips, the head portions of the first pipet tips supporting the second tray. 8. An apparatus comprising; a deep well plate having a top surface and a bottom surface substantially parallel to the top surface, a plurality of wells including walls that extend from openings in the top surface toward the bottom surface and substantially perpendicular to the top surface and the bottom surface, each of the wells defining an individual volume; wherein the plurality of wells are integral to the deep well plate, and further comprising a grip pad laterally surrounding said deep well plate; a first plurality of pipet tips, each having a head portion and a shank portion; a first tray seated on the deep welt plate and having openings for receiving the first pipet tips, the shank portions of the first pipet tips extending through the openings in the first tray and into the volumes of the deep well plate, wherein the first tray includes a lip extending from a bottom surface of the first tray, substantially orthogonal to the bottom surface and substantially parallel to sides of the deep well plate when the first tray is seated on the deep well plate; a second plurality of pipet tips, each having a head portion and a shank portion; and a second tray having openings for receiving the second pipet tips, wherein the shank portions of the second pipet tips extend through the openings of the second tray and into the head portions of the first pipet tips, the head portions of the first pipet tips supporting the second tray. 