A suspension system for a lightweight robotic crawler is disclosed. The suspension system provides for mounting of a flexible endless track thereon. The suspension system includes a forward guide and a rearward guide around which the endless track can be looped. A deflector positioned between the forward guide and the rearward guide downwardly deflects a ground-engaging portion of the endless track to form a peaked area. The peaked area can support the lightweight robotic vehicle allowing alteration of a distribution of load over the ground-engaging portion of the endless track with respect to a supporting surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A suspension system for a lightweight robotic vehicle having tandem tracks, the suspension system comprising: a frame; a forward guide coupled to the frame and configured to receive a looped portion of a first endless track around the forward guide; a rearward guide coupled to the frame and configured to receive a looped portion of the first endless track around the rearward guide; and at least one deflector operable with the frame between the forward guide and the rearward guide, the at least one deflector being configured to downwardly deflect a ground-engaging portion of the first endless track between the forward guide and the rearward guide to form a peaked area, whereby the lightweight robotic vehicle is selectively stabilized on the peaked area of the first endless track and a peaked area of a second endless track associated in tandem with the first endless track by an articulated arm. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one deflector is in a fixed position relative to at least one of the forward guide and the rearward guide. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the forward guide and the rearward guide are coupled to the frame in a fixed relative position. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the forward guide and the rearward guide are each rollers. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one deflector is a roller. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of deflectors coupled to the frame in positions between the forward guide and the rearward guide and configured to downwardly deflect the ground-engaging portion of the first endless track to form the peaked area into a curved shape. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the deflector is configured to support the lightweight robotic vehicle when the weight of the lightweight robotic vehicle is less than 20 pounds. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second frame in support of the second endless track, the second frame comprising a forward guide and a rearward guide coupled to the second frame and configured to receive respective looped portions of the second endless track. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the second frame comprises at least one deflector between the forward guide and the rearward guide, the at least one deflector being configured to downwardly deflect a ground-engaging portion of the second endless track between the forward guide and the rearward guide to form a peaked area on the second endless track. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the deflectors of the frame and the second frame are selectively engageable to simultaneously support both vehicle frames at partially on their respective peak areas. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the articulated arm is actuated, and provides actuated rotational movement about a longitudinal axis and bending movement about two different lateral axes. 12. A method for supporting a lightweight robotic vehicle on tandem endless tracks, comprising: providing a first endless track looped around a forward guide and a rearward guide of the lightweight robotic vehicle; selectively deflecting at least one ground-engaging portion of the first endless track in between the forward guide and the rearward guide in a downward direction to form a peaked area of the first endless track; and stabilizing the lightweight robotic vehicle at least partially on the peaked area of the first endless track and a peaked area of a second endless track associated in tandem with the first endless track by an articulated arm, so as to enable changing distribution of load over the ground-engaging portion of the first endless track with respect to a supporting surface. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising operating the lightweight robotic vehicle on a firm surface such that the peaked areas of the first and second endless tracks support substantially all the weight of the lightweight robotic vehicle. 14. The method of claim 12, further comprising operating the lightweight robotic vehicle on a soft surface such that the weight of the lightweight robotic vehicle is distributed substantially over the ground-engaging portions of the first and second endless tracks. 15. The method of claim 12, further comprising: coupling the lightweight robotic vehicle to a second lightweight robotic vehicle; and coordinating operation of the lightweight robotic vehicle with the second lightweight robotic vehicle to maintain the lightweight robotic vehicle balanced on the peaked areas. 16. The method of claim 12, further comprising selectively deflecting the ground-engaging portion along a vertical axis to vary a degree of curvature of the peaked area of the first endless track. 17. The method of claim 12, further comprising moving the deflector in an upward direction to create a flat ground-engaging portion of the first endless track. 18. The method of claim 12, further comprising: selectively deflecting the ground-engaging portion of the first endless track and a ground engage portion of the second endless track in a downward direction to form peaked areas of both the first and second endless tracks; and coordinating operation of the endless tracks to maintain the vehicle balanced on the peaked areas. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein the articulated arm is actuated, and provides actuated rotational movement about a longitudinal axis and bending movement about two different lateral axes. 