A method and apparatus for removing the lowest workpiece from a stack of a plurality of substantially similar workpieces. A horizontal shuttle has a lip on its edge, and is driven in one direction to remove the lip from a void beneath the stack, thereby permitting the stack to fall. The lowest workpiece drops into the void, and the next higher workpiece rests on the upper surface of the shuttle lip. The shuttle is subsequently reversed to drive the workpiece into a slot in a vertical clamp body. The clamp body is driven downwardly, thereby driving the workpiece downwardly, to be acted upon by a secondary device, such as a conventional degating apparatus.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. (A method of removing at least one workpiece from a vertical stack of at least two workpieces, the method comprising: (a) disposing the stack of workpieces between a first and a second buffer column mounted to a plate; (b) driving a shuttle in a first direction to remove a lip of the shuttle from a first slot formed beneath a lower end of at least one of the buffer columns and a top surface of the plate, thereby permitting said at least one workpiece to fall downwardly toward the plate with at least a portion of said at least one workpiece in the first slot; (c) driving the shuttle in a second, opposite direction to drive said at least a portion of said at least one workpiece out of the first slot and into a second slot within a clamp body, wherein the second slot is adjacent to and aligned with the first slot; and (d) driving the clamp body and said at least one workpiece downwardly. 2. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the step of disposing the stack of workpieces between a first and a second buffer column further comprises disposing tabs that protrude from sides of each of the workpieces into complementary, inwardly facing, vertical grooves in the buffer columns. 3. The method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising driving the shuttle in the first direction, after driving the shuttle in the second direction, to permit a second of said at least two workpieces to fall downwardly into the first slot. 4. The method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising disposing additional workpieces to the top of the stack. 5. A method of removing a first workpiece from a vertical stack of workpieces, the method comprising: (a) disposing opposing tabs that protrude from opposing sides of each of the workpieces into inwardly-facing vertical grooves in spaced first and second buffer columns mounted to a plate; (b) driving a shuttle away from the buffer columns to remove a lip of the shuttle from first slot portions formed beneath lower ends of the buffer columns and a top surface of the plate, thereby permitting the first workpiece to fall downwardly toward the plate, thereby disposing the tabs of the first workpiece into the first slot portions; (c) driving the shuttle in an opposite direction toward the buffer columns to drive the first workpiece' s tabs out of the first slot portions and into second slot portions within corresponding clamp bodies, wherein the second slot portions are adjacent to and aligned with the first slot portions; and (d) driving the clamp bodies and the first workpiece downwardly. 6. The method in accordance with claim 5, further comprising driving the shuttle away from the buffer columns, after driving the shuttle toward the buffer columns, to permit a second workpiece from the vertical stack of workpieces to fall downwardly toward the plate, thereby disposing the tabs of the second workpiece into the first slot portions. 7. The method in accordance with claim 6, further comprising disposing additional workpieces to the top of the stack. 8. An apparatus for retaining a vertical stack of workpieces and removing a first workpiece from the vertical stack and displacing the first workpiece downwardly from the vertical stack, the apparatus comprising: (a) first and second buffer columns mounted to a plate, the columns having spaced, inwardly-facing, vertical grooves into which opposing tabs protruding from opposing sides of each of the workpieces extend; (b) first slot portions formed beneath lower ends of the buffer columns and a top surface of the plate; (c) first and second clamp bodies drivingly linked to at least one prime mover for driving the clamp bodies upwardly to a first position and downwardly to a second position, the clamp bodies having second slot portions adjacent to and aligned with the first slot portions when the clamp bodies are in the first position; (d) a shuttle slidably mounted in the first slot portions; and (e) a prime mover drivingly linked to the shuttle for driving the shuttle away from the buffer columns to remove a lip of the shuttle from the first slot portions, thereby permitting the first workpiece to fall downwardly toward the plate and disposing the tabs of the first workpiece into the first slot portions, and for driving the shuttle toward the buffer columns to drive the first workpiece's tabs out of the first slot portions and into the second slot portions. 