A method for managing a multi-user animation platform is disclosed. A three-dimensional space within a computer memory is modeled. An avatar of a client is located within the three-dimensional space, the avatar being graphically represented by a three-dimensional figure within the three-dimensional space. The avatar is responsive to client input commands, and the three-dimensional figure includes a graphical representation of client activity. The client input commands are monitored to determine client activity. The graphical representation of client activity is then altered according to an inactivity scheme when client input commands are not detected. Following a predetermined period of client inactivity, the inactivity scheme varies non-repetitively with time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for managing a multi-user animation platform, the method comprising: modeling a three-dimensional space within a computer memory; locating an avatar of a client within the three-dimensional space, the avatar being graphically represented by a three-dimensional figure within the three-dimensional space and being responsive to client input commands, wherein the three-dimensional figure includes a graphical representation of client activity; monitoring the client input commands to determine client activity; and altering the graphical representation of client activity according to an inactivity scheme when client input commands are not detected, wherein following a predetermined period of client inactivity, the inactivity scheme varies non-repetitively with time to indicate how long the client has been inactive, and the inactivity scheme includes an algorithm for altering a transparency of the three-dimensional figure. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein altering the graphical representation includes continuing to alter the graphical representation, according to the inactivity scheme, following subsequent client inactivity. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the inactivity scheme includes gradually altering the graphical representation over a predetermined period of time. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising removing the avatar from the three-dimensional space following an extended period of client inactivity. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising relocating the avatar to a home location following an extended period of client inactivity. 6. A method for managing a multi-user animation platform, the method comprising: modeling a three-dimensional space within a computer memory; receiving client input commands from remote clients at a central host; modeling motion of avatars within the three-dimensional space responsive to the client input commands, each avatar being graphically represented by a three-dimensional figure within the three-dimensional space modeled responsive to the client input commands from corresponding ones of multiple clients; monitoring time elapsed from most recent client input for each of the multiple clients to obtain a corresponding measure of current inactivity level for each avatar; setting transparency values for the avatars, each avatar associated with a transparency value, the transparency values variable and responsive to the corresponding measure of current inactivity level for each avatar to indicate how long respective ones of the clients have been inactive; and serving the transparency values to the multiple clients at period intervals, the transparency values configured for use by the clients to display the avatars with a corresponding measure of transparency against a background of the three-dimensional space. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising increasing the transparency values for avatars in response to increases in the corresponding measure of current activity level for each avatar. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising setting the transparency values to zero for avatars having the corresponding measure of current inactivity level less than a defined threshold value. 9. The method of claim 6 further comprising removing avatars from the model of the three-dimensional space that have the corresponding measure of current inactivity level greater than a defined ceiling value. 10. The method of claim 6 further comprising relocating avatars to a modeled home location that have the corresponding measure of current inactivity level greater than a defined ceiling value. 11. The method of claim 6 further comprising setting the transparency values within a range of 0% to 100% transparent. 12. A computer-readable memory encoded with instructions configured for: modeling a three-dimensional space within a computer memory; locating an avatar of a client within the three-dimensional space, the avatar being graphically represented by a three-dimensional figure within the three-dimensional space and being responsive to client input commands, wherein the three-dimensional figure includes a graphical representation of client activity; monitoring the client input commands to determine client activity; and altering the graphical representation of client activity according to an inactivity scheme when client input commands are not detected, wherein following a predetermined period of client inactivity, the inactivity scheme varies non-repetitively with time to indicate how long the client has been inactive, and alters a transparency of the three-dimensional figure according to a defined algorithm. 13. The computer-readable memory of claim 12, wherein the instructions are further configured for continuing to alter the graphical representation, according to the inactivity scheme, following subsequent client inactivity. 14. The computer-readable memory of claim 12, wherein the instructions for the inactivity scheme are further configured for gradually altering the graphical representation over a predetermined period of time. 15. The computer-readable memory of claim 12, wherein the instructions are further configured for removing the avatar from the three-dimensional space following an extended period of client inactivity. 16. The computer-readable memory of claim 12, wherein the instructions are further configured for relocating the avatar to a home location following an extended period of client inactivity. 17. A computer-readable memory encoded with instructions configured for: modeling a three-dimensional space within a computer memory; modeling motion of avatars within the three-dimensional space, each avatar being graphically represented by a three-dimensional figure within the three-dimensional space and being responsive to client input commands from a corresponding one of multiple clients; monitoring time elapsed from most recent client input for each of the multiple clients to obtain a corresponding measure of current inactivity level for each avatar; setting transparency values for the avatars, each avatar associated with a transparency value, the transparency values variable within a range of 0% to 100% transparent responsive to the corresponding measure of current inactivity level for each avatar to indicate how long respective ones of the clients have been inactive; and serving the transparency values to the multiple clients at period intervals, the transparency values configured for use by the clients to display the avatars with a corresponding measure of transparency against a background of the three-dimensional space. 18. The computer-readable memory of claim 17, wherein the instructions are further configured for increasing the transparency values for avatars in response to increases in the corresponding measure of current activity level for each avatar. 19. The computer-readable memory of claim 17, wherein the instructions are further configured for setting the transparency values to zero for avatars having the corresponding measure of current inactivity level less than a defined threshold value. 20. The computer-readable memory of claim 17, wherein the instructions are further configured for removing avatars from the model of the three-dimensional space that have the corresponding measure of current inactivity level greater than a defined ceiling value. 21. The computer-readable memory of claim 17, wherein the instructions are further configured for relocating avatars to a modeled home location that have the corresponding measure of current inactivity level greater than a defined ceiling value. 22. A system for providing a multi-user VRU environment with time-dependent avatar transparency, comprising: a host operating a Virtual Reality Universe (VRU) modeling environment, the VRU modeling environment aggregating data for manipulating avatars in the environment in response to client input, wherein the host maintains a static correspondence between each avatar and a corresponding client providing input for control of the each avatar, the host determining an initial transparency value for each avatar for display of each avatar by connected clients for an initial period of time measured from most recent client input for the avatar, and that gradually increases towards a maximum non-zero transparency value with elapsed time after the initial period of time until client input for the each avatar is again received, thereby causing the connected clients to display avatars having transparencies that vary with time since most recent client input to indicate how long the client has been inactive. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the initial transparency value is set to cause each client to display avatars having the initial transparency value as opaque objects. 