The present invention provides devices and methods for attachment of an endoluminal gastrointestinal device, such as an artificial stoma device, a gastrointestinal bypass sleeve device or an attachment cuff, within a patient's digestive tract for treatment of obesity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient, comprising the steps of: identifying a patient with an implanted first gastrointestinal bypass tube having a first length, the first bypass tube releasably connected to a support which is attached to tissue in the vicinity of the gastroesophageal junction; separating the first bypass tube from the support and removing the first bypass tube from the patient after separating the first bypass tube from the support; providing a second bypass tube, having a second length which is different than the first length; and attaching the second bypass tube to the support. 2. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein the second length is longer than the first length. 3. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein the second length is shorter than the first length. 4. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein the attaching step is accomplished endoscopically. 5. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein attaching the second bypass tube to the support comprises attaching the proximal end of the second bypass tube to the distal end of the support. 6. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein the support comprises an attachment cuff having a lumen therethrough for the passage of ingested contents from the cuff into the first bypass tube. 7. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 6, wherein the attachment cuff is flexible. 8. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 6, wherein the attachment cuff is configured to stretch by at least about 150% in the radial direction. 9. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein the first bypass tube has a length of at least about 50 cm. 10. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein the first bypass tube has a length of at least about 75 cm. 11. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein the first bypass tube has a length of at least about 100 cm. 12. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein attaching the second bypass tube to the support comprises suturing the second bypass tube to the support. 13. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein attaching the second bypass tube to the support comprises hooking the second bypass tube to the support. 14. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein attaching the second bypass tube to the support comprises stapling the second bypass tube to the support. 15. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 1, wherein attaching the second bypass tube to the support comprises connecting a first attachment surface on the support to a second attachment surface on the second bypass tube. 16. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 15, wherein the first attachment surface comprises an annular ridge. 17. A method of adjusting therapy in a patient as in claim 15, wherein the second attachment surface comprises a ring. 