A data packet is provided that includes a synchronization field and an acknowledgement field indicative of an acknowledgement of receipt of a prior data packet. The data packet also includes a response field that includes information indicative of a system fault, a header field, and a sequence number field that includes a number assigned to the data packet. The data packet further includes a data field, an end of packet field, and an error-checking field. Methods and computer program products are provided that, in some implementations, include retransmitting packets if the acknowledgement field in a received data packet is a no acknowledgement (NAK) and/or placing a node into a safe state in response to a fault signal that is included in the received data packet.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical system comprising: a first node configured to generate and transmit a data packet comprising control information and message information, wherein the control information comprises a fault bit that is set by the first node and that indicates a system fault condition exists; a second node configured to receive and retransmit the transmitted data packet without software intervention; a third node configured to receive the retransmitted data packet from the second node; a first robotic arm joint; a second robotic arm joint; and fault reaction hardware; wherein the fault reaction hardware is configured to place the system in a safe state that includes locking a position of the first robotic arm joint as a result of the second node receiving the transmitted data packet and detecting the set fault bit; and wherein the fault reaction hardware is configured to place the system in a safe state that includes locking a position of the second robotic arm joint as a result of the third node receiving the retransmitted data packet from the second node and detecting the set fault bit. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the data packet includes a synchronization field containing a predetermined shift-invariant value. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein: the data packet includes a response field containing flow-control information. 4. The data packet of claim 3, wherein: the flow-control information includes flow-control information for multiple channels, each channel having a particular message priority. 5. The data packet of claim 1, wherein: the data packet includes a header field including a channel-selection subfield indicating a channel that the data packet is intended for, where each channel has a particular assigned priority. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein: the data packet includes a header field including a command subfield. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein: the command subfield of the data packet includes a synchronization command. 8. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, further comprising: a fourth node configured to receive the retransmitted data packet from the second node, wherein upon receiving the retransmitted data packet and detecting the set fault bit at the fourth node, the fault reaction hardware places the system in a safe state that includes locking a position of a third robotic arm joint. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a robotic arm, wherein the robotic arm comprises the first robotic arm joint and the second robotic arm joint. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a first robotic arm, wherein the first robotic arm comprises the first robotic arm joint; and a second robotic arm, wherein the second robotic arm comprises the second robotic arm joint. 11. A method comprising: detecting a fault in a robotic surgical system; in response to detecting the fault, generating and transmitting a data packet at a first node, the data packet comprising control information and message information, wherein the control information comprises a fault bit that is set by the first node and that indicates a system fault condition exists; receiving the transmitted packet at a second node, the second node operable to receive and retransmit the transmitted data packet without software intervention; detecting the fault bit is set in the received data packet at the second node; locking a position of a first joint of one or more robotic arms of the robotic surgical system, the first joint being associated with the second node; receiving the retransmitted data packet at a third node, the third node operable to receive the retransmitted data packet from the second node; detecting the fault bit is set in the received data packet at the third node; and locking a position of a second joint of the one or more robotic arms of the robotic surgical system, the second joint being associated with the third node. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: propagating the data packet including the fault information to a plurality of nodes, each node operable to receive and retransmit the data packet; and clearing the fault bit in the data packet when the fault is corrected. 13. A robotic surgical system comprising: a plurality of nodes configured to receive a transmitted data packet comprising control information and message information, wherein the control information comprises a fault bit that, when set, indicates a system fault condition exists in the robotic surgical system; a first robotic arm joint; a second robotic arm joint; and fault reaction hardware; wherein each node of the plurality of nodes is configured to receive and retransmit the transmitted data packet without software intervention; and wherein the fault reaction hardware is configured to place the robotic surgical system in a safe state that includes locking a position of the first joint as a result of the first node receiving the data packet and detecting the fault bit as set and locking a position of the second joint as a result of a second node receiving the data packet from the first node and detecting the fault bit as set. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising: a robotic arm, wherein the robotic arm comprises the first robotic arm joint and the second robotic arm joint. 15. The system of claim 13, further comprising: a first robotic arm, wherein the first robotic arm comprises the first robotic arm joint; and a second robotic arm, wherein the second robotic arm comprises the second robotic arm joint. 16. A method comprising: detecting in control information of a data packet received at a first node that a fault bit is set to indicate that a robotic surgical system fault exists, the data packet further comprising message information; locking a position of a first joint in one or more robotic arms in the robotic surgical system in response to detecting at the first node that the fault bit is set; retransmitting the data packet from the first node to a second node; detecting that the fault bit is set in the retransmitted data packet received at the second node; and locking a position of a second joint in one or more robotic arms in the robotic surgical system in response to detecting at the second node that the fault bit is set. 