A method of operating an articulated arm CMM is provided. Instructions for the CMM can be inputted to the CMM arm by an action chosen from the group consisting of placing the arm in a predefined position and moving the arm in a predefined manner.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of operating an articulated arm CMM comprising: inputting an instruction to the CMM arm by an action chosen from the group consisting of placing the arm in a predefined position and moving the arm in a predefined manner; and awakening the articulated arm from a sleep mode by moving the arm into an extended position. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: placing the articulated arm into a retracted position; and the arm entering a sleep mode automatically after the step of placing the articulated arm into a retracted position. 3. A method of operating an articulated arm CMM comprising: inputting an instruction to the CMM arm by an action chosen from the group consisting of placing the arm in a predefined position and moving the arm in a predefined manner; and changing the arm's data acquisition mode automatically when the arm is moved slowly. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the step of inputting is performed without actuating any buttons, levers, dials, or other traditional actuation devices. 5. The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of awakening the articulated arm from a sleep mode by rapidly moving the arm. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein the arm's data acquisition mode is changed to a higher frequency or higher accuracy mode upon slow movement of the arm. 7. A method of operating an articulated arm CMM comprising: inputting an instruction to the CMM arm by an action chosen from the group consisting of placing the arm in a predefined position and moving the arm in a predefined manner; indicating that a desired calibration position has been reached by holding the arm still for an extended period of time; and confirming that the calibration position has been reached with a rapid movement of the arm. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of confirming is performed after the indication that a desired calibration position has been reached is acknowledged by the arm or an auxiliary device in communication with the arm. 9. A method for calibrating an articulated arm CMM comprising: indicating a calibration point and an associated arm calibration position to a user; moving a distal end of an articulated arm to the calibration point; and moving the articulated arm to the calibration position. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the step of indicating a calibration point and associated arm calibration position comprises displaying the arm calibration position. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of displaying the current position of the articulated arm during the moving steps. 12. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of displaying a calibration artifact representative of one or more calibration positions. 13. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of highlighting a portion out of alignment from the calibration position. 14. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of indicating that a calibration position has been reached. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of indicating that a calibration position has been reached comprises holding the arm still for an extended period of time. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of indicating that a calibration position has been reached comprises a change in display, sound, or color. 17. The method of claim 14, further comprising confirming that a calibration position has been reached by rapidly moving the arm. 