Friction stir methods are disclosed for processing at least one workpiece using a rotary tool with rotating member for contacting and processing the workpiece. The methods include oscillating the rotary tool laterally with respect to a selected propagation path for the rotating member with respect to the workpiece to define an oscillation path for the rotating member. The methods further include obtaining force signals or parameters related to the force experienced by the rotary tool at least while the rotating member is disposed at the extremes of the oscillation. The force signals or parameters associated with the extremes can then be analyzed to determine a lateral position of the selected path with respect to a target path and a lateral offset value can be determined based on the lateral position. The lateral distance between the selected path and the target path can be decreased based on the lateral offset value.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A friction stir method for processing at least one workpiece, wherein a system for said method comprises a spindle actuator coupled to a rotary tool comprising a rotating member for contacting and processing said at least one workpiece, the method comprising: oscillating the rotary tool laterally with respect to a selected propagation path for the rotating member with respect to the one workpiece to define an oscillation path for the rotating member; obtaining one or more force signals or parameters related to said force experienced by said rotary tool at least while the rotating member is disposed at first and second extremes of said oscillation of the rotary tool; comparing said force signals or parameters associated with the first extreme and said force signals or parameters associated with second extreme to stored lateral position correlation data to determine a lateral position of the selected propagation path with respect to a target path for the at least one workpiece; and determining a lateral offset value based on said lateral position and decreasing a lateral distance between the selected propagation path and the target path based on the lateral offset value. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein a vertical adjustment of the rotating member is performed when the oscillation path and the propagation path substantially overlap. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the vertical adjustment is only performed periodically. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said oscillating further comprises selecting a weaving pattern defining the oscillation path and specifying at least a dwell time and a lateral transition function for controlling the lateral oscillation. 5. A friction stir method for processing at least one workpiece, wherein a system for said method comprises a spindle actuator coupled to a rotary tool comprising a rotating member for contacting and processing said at least one workpiece, the method comprising: oscillating the rotary tool laterally with respect to a selected propagation path for the rotating member with respect to the one workpiece to define an oscillation path for the rotating member; obtaining one or more force signals or parameters related to said force experienced by said rotary tool at least while the rotating member is disposed at first and second extremes of said oscillation of the rotary tool; determining lateral offsets at said first and second extremes, respectively, using said force signals or parameters related to said force; comparing the degree of the lateral offsets at said first and second extremes; and reducing the lateral distance between the selected propagation path and a target path based on the comparing. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein a vertical adjustment of the rotating member is performed when the oscillation path and the propagation path substantially overlap. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the vertical adjustment is only performed periodically. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein said oscillating further comprises selecting a weaving pattern having for defining the oscillation path and specifying at least a dwell time and a lateral transition function for controlling the lateral oscillation. 9. The method of claim 5, further comprising: repeating said oscillating, obtaining, computing, determining, and adjusting to minimize a difference between the selected propagation path and the target path. 10. A friction stir method for processing at least one workpiece, wherein a system for said method comprises a spindle actuator coupled to a rotary tool comprising a rotating member for contacting and processing said at least one workpiece, the method comprising: weaving the rotary tool to cause the rotating member to move laterally with respect to a selected propagation path during processing of the at least one workpiece; measuring a plurality of axial force signals or parameters related to said force experienced by said rotary tool at least while the rotating member is laterally moving away from the selected propagation path; and reversing a direction of the lateral motion once an aggregate of the measured force signals or parameters meets a reversal criteria. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising repeating the steps of measuring and reversing. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein a vertical adjustment of the rotating member is performed when the oscillation path and the propagation path substantially coincide. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the lateral motion of the rotating member is temporarily suspended when the oscillation path and the propagation path substantially coincide. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of reversing further comprises computing said aggregate using a summation function based on the sampled force signals or parameters. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the step of reversing further comprises computing said aggregate using an integral of a function defined by the sampled force signals or parameters. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the aggregate is based on at least one of a normalization of the plurality force signals or parameters. 17. The method of claim 5, wherein the lateral offset information comprises at least a direction. 