Disclosed are a method, device kit, and automated system for simple, reproducible, and high-throughput quantification of mRNA from whole blood. More particularly, the method, device, kit and automated system involve combinations of leukocyte filters attached to oligo(dT)-immobilized multi-well plates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of obtaining mRNA from a leukocyte lysate comprising: obtaining whole blood; preparing a plurality of sample wells, each of the sample wells comprising a filter that traps leukocytes in the filter and allows erythrocytes and blood components other than leukocytes in the whole blood to be removed from the filter; adding an anticoagulant to the whole blood; adding the whole blood to the sample wells; removing erythrocytes and blood components other than leukocytes in the whole blood from the filter; lysing the leukocytes in the samples wells by applying lysis buffer comprising a guanidinium thiocyanate at a concentration in the range of about 1.4M to 1.75M into the sample wells and obtaining a leukocyte lysate comprising mRNA in each of the sample wells; transferring said leukocyte lysate from each of the sample wells into its corresponding mRNA capture zone in which oligo(dT) is immobilized; and obtaining said mRNA from said leukocyte lysate by annealing poly-A mRNA in the leukocyte lysate to the oligo(dT). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the leukocytes are located on the filter at the time they are lysed. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the lysis buffer comprises a detergent. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the detergent is Triton X-100, Tween-20, SDS (sodium dodecyl sulfate), sarcosyl, or deoxycholic acid. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the lysis buffer further comprises an additional ribonuclease inhibitor. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising assaying for the presence or quantity of one or more RNAs in the lysate. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said assaying step comprises a Northern blot, RNase protection assay, hybridization reaction, microarray analysis, or reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis is real-time RT-PCR or endpoint RT-PCR. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the oligo(dT) is immobilized on a plate comprising the plurality of sample wells and the transferring step is performed by vacuum aspiration. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the oligo(dT) is immobilized on a plate comprising the plurality of sample wells and the transferring step is performed by centrifugation. 11. A method of obtaining mRNA from a leukocyte lysate comprising: obtaining whole blood; preparing a plurality of sample wells, each of the sample wells comprising a filter that traps leukocytes in the filter and allows erythrocytes and blood components other than leukocytes in the whole blood to be removed from the filter; adding an anticoagulant to the whole blood; adding the whole blood to the sample wells; removing erythrocytes and blood components other than leukocytes in the whole blood from the filter; and lysing the leukocytes in the samples wells by applying lysis buffer comprising guanidine thiocyanate at a concentration in the range of about 1.4M to 1.75M into the sample wells and obtaining a leukocyte lysate comprising mRNA; extracting the mRNA from the leukocyte lysate and obtaining extracted mRNA; transferring said extracted mRNA into an mRNA capture zone in which oligo(dT) is immobilized; and obtaining said mRNA from said leukocyte lysate by annealing said mRNA to the oligo(dT). 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the extraction is performed via an organic extraction. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the organic extraction is a phenol/chloroform extraction. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein said extracting the mRNA from the leukocyte lysate comprises extracting the lysate with an organic solution, forming organic and aqueous phases; separating the organic and aqueous phases; and isolating the mRNA from the aqueous phase. 