A system and method for controlling a remote vehicle comprises a hand-held controller including a laser generator for generating a laser beam. The hand-held controller is manipulable to aim and actuate the laser beam to designate a destination for the remote vehicle. The remote vehicle senses a reflection of the laser beam and moves toward the designated destination. The hand-held controller allows single-handed control of the remote vehicle and one or more of its payloads. A method for controlling a remote vehicle via a laser beam comprises encoding control signals for a remote vehicle into a laser beam that is aimed and sent to a designated destination for the remote vehicle, and sensing a reflection of the laser beam, decoding the control signals for the remote vehicle, and moving toward the designated destination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling a remote vehicle, the system comprising: a hand-held controller including a laser generator for generating a laser beam comprising an embedded unique code corresponding to the remote vehicle, the hand-held controller being manipulable to aim and actuate the laser beam to designate a destination for the remote vehicle, wherein the remote vehicle senses a reflection of the laser beam, verifies the embedded unique code, computes a trajectory to the designated destination, and moves toward the designated destination. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the hand-held controller allows single-handed control of the remote vehicle and one or more of its payloads. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the hand-held controller includes a hand grip. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein a least one input device is located on the hand grip. 5. The system of claim 4, including additional input devices located on the hand-held controller, the input devices comprising at least a joystick or puck. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the hand grip is adjustable to fit a size of a user's hand. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the input device location is adjustable to fit a size of a user's hand. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the hand-held controller includes a replaceable hand grip selected to fit a size of a user's hand. 9. A system for controlling a remote vehicle, the system comprising: a hand-held controller allowing single-handed control of a remote vehicle and one or more of its payloads, the hand-held controller comprising a laser generator for generating a laser beam and being manipulable to aim and actuate the laser beam to designate a destination; and a remote vehicle comprising a sensor for sensing a reflection of the laser beam, and a processor for calculating a vector angle to the destination and computing a trajectory to the destination. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein a unique code corresponding to the remote vehicle is embedded in laser beam. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein the hand-held controller includes a hand grip. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein a least one input device is located on the hand grip. 13. The system of claim 12, including additional input devices located on the hand-held controller, the input devices comprising at least a joystick or puck. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein the hand grip is adjustable to fit a size of a user's hand. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the input device location is adjustable to fit a size of a user's hand. 16. The system of claim 9, wherein the hand-held controller includes a replaceable hand grip selected to fit a size of a user's hand. 17. A hand-held controller being manipulable to aim and actuate a laser beam to designate a destination for a remote vehicle, the hand-held controller comprising: a laser generator configured to generate a laser beam comprising an embedded unique code corresponding to the remote vehicle, the laser beam designating a destination for the remote vehicle to move toward; a hand grip configured to be adjustable to fit a size of a user's hand; and at least one input device located on the hand grip. 18. The hand-held controller of claim 17, wherein the hand-held controller allows single-handed control of the remote vehicle and one or more of its payloads. 19. The hand-held controller of claim 17, including additional input devices comprising at least a joystick or puck. 20. The system of claim 17, including a replaceable hand grip selected to fit a size of a user's hand. 