Disclosed are methods for reliably detecting the presence of proteins, especially proteins with various post-translational modifications (phosphorylation, glycosylation, methylation, acetylation, etc.) in a sample by the use of one or more capture agents that recognize and interact with recognition sequences uniquely characteristic of a set of proteins (Proteome Epitope Tags, or PETs) in the sample. Arrays comprising these capture agents or PETs are also provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for detecting the presence or absence of a post-translational modification at a location on a target protein within a sample, comprising: (1) subjecting the target protein to a fragmentation treatment to produce a peptide fragment comprising: (i) at least one potential post-translational modification site; and, (ii) a separate proteome epitope tag (PET) comprising an amino acid sequence unique to the peptide fragment within the sample, wherein the location of the post-translational modification site and the PET within the peptide fragment is known; (2) contacting the peptide fragment with a capture agent specific for the PET, thereby to bind the peptide fragment at the PET; (3) contacting the peptide fragment bound to the capture agent specific for the PET with a secondary capture agent specific for the post-translational modification site, wherein the secondary capture agent is labeled with a detectable moiety; and (4) detecting the secondary capture agent; wherein detection of the secondary capture agent is indicative of the presence of the post-translational modification at the location within the target protein. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting an amount of the peptide fragment bound to the capture agent. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising detecting an amount of post-translationally modified residues within the peptide fragment hound to the capture agent. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the presence or absence of the post-translational modification is indicative of a disease, a pre-disposition to a disease, or a stage of a disease. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the amount of one or more post-translational residues is indicative of a disease, a pre-disposition to a disease, or a stage of a disease. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the length of the amino acid sequence is selected from 15-20 amino acids, 20-25 amino acids, 25-30 amino acids, or 30-40 amino acids. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the post-translational modification is phosphorylation, and the secondary capture agent is a labeled secondary antibody that recognizes a phosphorylated tyrosine, phosphorylated serine, or phosphorylated threonine. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the fragmentation treatment is denaturation and/or fragmentation by a protease, a chemical agent, physical shearing, or sonication. 9. A method for detecting the presence or absence of a post-translational modification at a location on a target protein within a sample, comprising: (1) subjecting the target protein to a fragmentation treatment to produce a peptide fragment comprising (i) at least one potential post-translational modification site and, (ii) a separate proteome epitope tag (PET) comprising an amino acid sequence unique to the peptide fragment within the sample, wherein the location of the post-translational modification site and the PET within the peptide fragment is known; (2) contacting the peptide fragment with first and second capture agents respectively specific for the PET and the post-translational modification, one of which is immobilized and the other of which is labeled with a detectable moiety, to bind the fragment at the PET and at the post-translational modification to form a complex; and (3) detecting, the presence of the detectable moiety in said complex, wherein detection of the detectable moiety is indicative of the presence of said post-translational modification at the location on the target protein. 