A surgical apparatus includes a surgical device, configured to be manipulated by a user to perform a procedure on a patient, and a computer system. The computer system is programmed to implement control parameters for controlling the surgical device to provide at least one of haptic guidance to the user and a limit on user manipulation of the surgical device, based on a relationship between an anatomy of the patient and at least one of a position, an orientation, a velocity, and an acceleration of a portion of the surgical device, and to adjust the control parameters in response to movement of the anatomy during the procedure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical apparatus, comprising: a surgical device configured to be manipulated by a user to perform in a procedure on a patient; and a computer system programmed: to associate a virtual object with an anatomy of the patient to enable the surgical device to provide at least one of haptic guidance to the user and a limit on user manipulation of the surgical device, based on a relationship between the anatomy of the patient and at least one of a position, an orientation, a velocity, and an acceleration of a portion of the surgical device, and to adjust the virtual object associated with the anatomy in response to movement of the anatomy during the procedure by monitoring detected movement of the anatomy and then adjusting the virtual object in response to the detected movement, wherein the surgical device includes at least one feedback mechanism configured to supply feedback to the user manipulating the surgical device; and the computer system is programmed to control the at least one feedback mechanism to provide haptic guidance to the user, while the user manipulates the surgical device, based on the relationship between the anatomy of the patient and the at least one of a position, an orientation, a velocity, and an acceleration of the portion of the surgical device. 2. The surgical apparatus of claim 1, wherein the surgical device includes an arm, a surgical tool coupled to the arm, and a user interface mechanically connected to at least one of the arm and the surgical tool, wherein the user interface is configured to be gripped by a user to enable manipulation to perform the procedure on the patient. 3. The surgical apparatus of claim 2, wherein the user interface includes a first part configured to enable the user to change a configuration of the arm and a second part configured to enable the user to move the surgical tool relative to the arm. 4. The surgical apparatus of claim 3, wherein the first part comprises a joint of the arm and the second part comprises at least one of a distal end of the arm and the surgical tool. 5. The surgical apparatus of claim 2, wherein the computer system is programmed to control the surgical device to generate at least one of a force, a torque, and vibration based on a position of the surgical tool relative to the virtual object associated with the anatomy. 6. The surgical apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a detection device for determining a pose of an object. 7. The surgical apparatus of claim 6, wherein the detection device is mounted to the surgical device. 8. The surgical apparatus of claim 7, wherein the detection device is moveable from a first position to a second position relative to the surgical device. 9. The surgical apparatus of claim 7, wherein the detection device is fixed in position with respect to the surgical device. 10. The surgical apparatus of claim 6, further comprising at least one trackable element detectable by the detection device and configured to be attached to an object to be tracked. 11. The surgical apparatus of claim 10, wherein the computer system is programmed to alert the user if the detection device is unable to detect the at least one trackable element during the procedure. 12. The surgical apparatus of claim 10, wherein the at least one trackable element is disposed on the surgical device. 13. The surgical apparatus of claim 12, wherein the at least one trackable element is moveable between a first position and a second position relative to the surgical device. 14. The surgical apparatus of claim 12, wherein the at least one trackable element is fixed in position with respect to the surgical device. 15. The surgical apparatus of claim 10, wherein the surgical device includes an arm configured to engage a surgical tool, and wherein the at least one trackable element is configured to be disposed on at least one of a distal end of the arm and the surgical tool. 16. The surgical apparatus of claim 10, wherein the at least one trackable element includes a feature for verifying a calibration of a probe. 17. The surgical apparatus of claim 16, wherein the feature comprises a divot. 18. The surgical apparatus of claim 6, wherein the detection device is configured to be connected to an object to be tracked. 19. The surgical apparatus of claim 18, wherein the detection device includes a fixation device for attachment to a bone of the patient. 20. The surgical apparatus of claim 1, wherein the virtual object is a haptic object. 21. The surgical apparatus of claim 20, wherein the haptic object has a shape that substantially corresponds to a shape of a portion of an implant component. 22. The surgical apparatus of claim 21, wherein the portion of the implant component is a surface of a tibial component. 23. The surgical apparatus of claim 20, wherein the haptic object has either a shape or volume corresponding to a portion of bone to be removed during a surgical procedure. 24. A surgical apparatus, comprising: a haptic device configured to be manipulated by a user to perform a procedure on a patient, the haptic device including at least one feedback mechanism configured to supply feedback to the user manipulating the haptic device; and a computer system programmed: to associate a virtual object with an anatomy of the patient to enable the at least one feedback mechanism to provide haptic guidance to the user, while the user manipulates the haptic device, based on a relationship between the anatomy of the patient and at least one of a position, an orientation, a velocity, and an acceleration of a portion of the haptic device, and to adjust the virtual object associated with the anatomy in response to movement of the anatomy during the procedure by monitoring detected movement of the anatomy and then adjusting the virtual object in response to the detected movement. 25. The surgical apparatus of claim 24, wherein the haptic device includes an arm, a surgical tool coupled to the arm, and a user interface mechanically connected to at least one of the arm and the surgical tool, wherein the user interface is configured to be gripped by a user to enable manipulation to perform the procedure on the patient. 26. The surgical apparatus of claim 25, wherein the user interface includes a first part configured to enable the user to change a configuration of the arm and a second part configured to enable the user to move the surgical tool relative to the arm. 27. The surgical apparatus of claim 26, wherein the first part comprises a joint of the arm and the second part comprises at least one of a distal end of the arm and the surgical tool. 28. The surgical apparatus of claim 25, wherein the computer system is programmed to control the haptic device to generate at least one of a force, a torque, and vibration based on a position of the surgical tool relative to the virtual object associated with the anatomy. 29. The surgical apparatus of claim 24, wherein the computer system is configured to control the feedback mechanism to communicate information to the user, while the user manipulates the haptic device, about a location of the portion of the haptic device relative to the virtual object associated with the anatomy. 30. The surgical apparatus of claim 24, wherein the computer system is programmed to control the at least one feedback mechanism to provide haptic guidance to the user, while the user manipulates the haptic device, based on the relationship between the anatomy of the patient and the at least one of a position, an orientation, a velocity, and an acceleration of the portion of the haptic device. 31. The surgical apparatus of claim 24, further comprising a detection device for determining a pose of an object. 32. The surgical apparatus of claim 31, wherein the detection device is mounted to the haptic device. 33. The surgical apparatus of claim 32, wherein the detection device is moveable from a first position to a second position relative to the haptic device. 34. The surgical apparatus of claim 32, wherein the detection device is fixed in position with respect to the haptic device. 35. The surgical apparatus of claim 31, further comprising at least one trackable element detectable by the detection device and configured to be attached to an object to be tracked. 36. The surgical apparatus of claim 35, wherein the computer system is programmed to alert the user if the detection device is unable to detect the at least one trackable element during the procedure. 37. The surgical apparatus of claim 35, wherein the at least one trackable element is disposed on the haptic device. 38. The surgical apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one trackable element is moveable between a first position and a second position relative to the haptic device. 39. The surgical apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one trackable element is fixed in position with respect to the haptic device. 40. The surgical apparatus of claim 35, wherein the haptic device includes an arm configured to engage a surgical tool, and wherein the at least one trackable element is configured to be disposed on at least one of a distal end of the arm and the surgical tool. 41. The surgical apparatus of claim 35, wherein the at least one trackable element includes a feature for verifying a calibration of a probe. 42. The surgical apparatus of claim 41, wherein the feature comprises a divot. 43. The surgical apparatus of claim 31, wherein the detection device is configured to be connected to an object to be tracked. 44. The surgical apparatus of claim 43, wherein the detection device includes a fixation device for attachment to a bone of the patient. 45. The surgical apparatus of claim 24, wherein the virtual object is a haptic object. 46. The surgical apparatus of claim 45, wherein the haptic object has a shape that substantially corresponds to a shape of a portion of an implant component. 47. The surgical apparatus of claim 46, wherein the portion of the implant component is a surface of a tibial component. 48. The surgical apparatus of claim 45, wherein the haptic object has either a shape or volume corresponding to a portion of bone to be removed during a surgical procedure. 