A stopper and container body are molded in the same molding machine. An assembly device, such as a pick and place robot, transfers the stopper from one mold cavity into the opening in the container body located within another mold cavity, or vice versa, to assemble the stopper and container body. Then, the assembled container body and stopper are removed from the molding machine and transported to a needle filling and laser resealing station for filling and laser resealing. A laminar flow source directs a substantially laminar flow of air or sterile gas over the mold surfaces, stoppers and container bodies, and assembly device, to prevent contamination during assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: at least one first mold cavity shaped to form a container body; at least one second mold cavity shaped to form a resealable member; an assembly device, wherein at least one of the first mold cavity, second mold cavity and assembly device is movable relative to the others for assembling a substantially sterile resealable member at a first temperature and a substantially sterile container body at a second temperature into a sealed container and resealable member assembly, the first and second temperatures are greater than an ambient temperature of the apparatus, and the assembly device is located adjacent to the first and second mold cavities and configured to at least one of (i) move the resealable member into engagement with the container body which is located at least partially within the first mold cavity for assembling the resealable member to the container body, and (ii) move the container body into engagement with the resealable member which is located at least partially within the second mold cavity for assembling the container body to the resealable member; and a filling and resealing apparatus including (i) at least one filling member that is movable between a first position for penetrating the resealable member and introducing a substance from the filling member therethrough and into an interior chamber of the container body, and a second position spaced away from the resealable member; and (ii) a sealing apparatus for sealing a penetrated region of the resealable member upon withdrawal of the filling member therefrom. 2. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first and second mold cavities, assembly device, and the filling and resealing apparatus are mounted in line relative to each other such that the container body and resealable member assemblies flow from at least one of the first mold cavity, second mold cavity and assembly device to the filling and resealing apparatus. 3. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising an e-beam source for transmitting e-beam radiation on at least one of (i) the assembled container body and resealable member prior to filling and resealing thereof, and (ii) the assembled container and resealable member and filling member during filling and resealing thereof. 4. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first mold cavity is shaped to form the container body having an interior chamber and an opening in communication therewith for receiving a substance therein. 5. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a plurality of first mold cavities and a plurality of second mold cavities. 6. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the assembly device substantially simultaneously assembles a plurality of container bodies and resealable members from the first and second mold cavities, respectively. 7. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the assembly device assembles the resealable member from the first mold cavity and the container body from the second mold cavity by either (i) transferring the resealable member from the second mold cavity to the container body, and (ii) transferring the container body from the first mold cavity to the resealable member. 8. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first mold cavity defines a first outlet for removing the molded container body therethrough, and the assembly device is operatively coupled to the first outlet for at least one of (i) assembling the resealable member and container body and (ii) transferring an assembled resealable member and container body assembly. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the second mold cavity defines a second outlet for removing the molded resealable member therethrough, and the assembly device is operatively coupled to the second outlet for at least one of (i) assembling the resealable member and container body and (ii) transferring an assembled resealable member and container body assembly. 10. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first and second temperatures are bactericidal. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the first and second temperatures are each greater than approximately 80.degree. C. 12. An apparatus as defined in claim 11, wherein the first and second temperatures are each within the range of about 80.degree. C. through about 140.degree. C. 13. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the at least one filling member comprises at least one needle. 14. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the sealing apparatus includes a thermal source. 15. An apparatus as defined in claim 14, wherein the thermal source includes a laser. 16. An apparatus as defined in claim 14, wherein the thermal source thermally reseals the penetrated region. 17. An apparatus as defined in claim 16, wherein the filling and resealing apparatus further includes at least one temperature sensor for sensing the temperature of the thermally resealed portion of the resealable member, and the temperature sensor determines whether the temperature of a resealable surface of the resealable member is greater than the melting temperature of the resealable member material and less than the vaporization temperature of the resealable member material. 18. An apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein the temperature sensor compares a sensed temperature to at least one predetermined temperature to determine whether a penetration hole in the resealable member is sealed. 19. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, further comprising a source coupled in fluid communication with at least one of the first mold cavity, second mold cavity and assembly device for directing a flow of sterile gas over the container body and resealable member during assembly thereof. 20. An apparatus as defined in claim 19, wherein the source directs the flow of sterile gas at least one of (i) downwardly, and (ii) laterally over the container body and resealable member. 21. An apparatus as defined in claim 19, further comprising a barrier enclosure surrounding at least one of the first mold cavity, the second mold cavity and the assembly device, and defining an aseptic enclosure for assembling therein the resealable member and container body. 22. An apparatus as defined in claim 21, wherein the barrier enclosure surrounds the first mold cavity, the second mold cavity and the assembly device. 23. An apparatus as defined in claim 21, wherein the first mold cavity is located within a first molding machine, the second mold cavity is located within a second molding machine, and the first and second molding machines are located within the barrier enclosure. 24. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the assembly device is a robot including at least one robotic arm and an assembly tool mounted on the at least one robotic arm for assembling the resealable member and container body. 25. An apparatus comprising: first means for forming therein a container body; second means for forming therein a resealable member; third means located adjacent and movable relative to the first means and the second means for at least one of (i) moving a formed container body into engagement with a formed resealable member which is located at least partially within the second means and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein; (ii) moving a formed resealable member into engagement with a formed container body which is located at least partially in the first means and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein; and (iii) assembling the container body and the resealable member each at a bactericidal temperature and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein; fourth means for penetrating the resealable member of a sealed, empty container and resealable member assembly and filling a substance into the chamber thereof, and fifth means for resealing a resulting penetration hole in the resealable member. 26. An apparatus comprising: first means for forming therein a container body; second means for forming therein a resealable member; and third means located adjacent and movable relative to the first means and the second means for at least one of (i) moving a formed container body into engagement with a formed resealable member which is located at least partially within the second means and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein; (ii) moving a formed resealable member into engagement with a formed container body which is located at least partially in the first means and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein. 27. An apparatus as defined in claim 26, wherein the first means is a first mold cavity, the second means is a second mold cavity, and the third means is a robotic assembly device. 28. An apparatus as defined in claim 26, further comprising fourth means for penetrating the resealable member of a sealed, empty container and resealable member assembly and filling a substance into the chamber thereof, and fifth means for resealing a resulting penetration hole in the resealable member. 29. An apparatus of claim 28, wherein said filling comprises aseptic filling of the substance. 