The invention provides a method for providing human input to a computer which allows a user to interact with a display connected to the computer. The method includes the steps of placing a first target on a first portion of the user's body, using an electro-optical sensing means, sensing data related to the location of the first target and data related to the location of a second portion of the user's body, the first and second portions of the user's body being movable relative to each other, providing an output of the electro-optical sensing means to the input of the computer, determining the location of the first target and the location of the second portion of the user's body, and varying the output of the computer to the display based upon the determined locations for contemporaneous viewing by the user.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A touch interface comprising: a touch surface including a first portion and a touch sensor adapted to detect the position of a touch input on the touch surface; and a transducer responsive to the touch sensor and adapted to vibrate the touch surface with a first tactile force feedback signal to indicate to a user a touch input is close to or at the first portion of the touch surface. 2. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the touch surface is operable to display visually observable data. 3. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the touch surface is further adapted to identify the position of the touch input on the touch surface in two dimensions. 4. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the force feedback signal includes a frequency selected as a function of the location of the touch input. 5. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the force feedback signal includes an intensity selected as a function of the location of the touch input. 6. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the force feedback signal includes a pulse sequence selected as a function of the location of the touch input. 7. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the transducer includes a piezoelectric crystal. 8. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the touch surface includes an electro-optical sensor. 9. The touch interface of claim 1 wherein the touch surface is located in an automobile passenger compartment. 10. The touch interface of claim 9 wherein the touch surface is located on an automobile dashboard. 11. A method comprising: providing a touch surface including a first portion; determining a touch input is proximate the first portion of the touch surface; and vibrating the touch surface with a tactile force feedback signal in response to the determining step to indicate to the user that the touch input is proximate the first portion of the touch surface. 12. The method according to claim 11 wherein the touch surface is adapted to display visually observable data. 13. The method according to claim 11 further including providing a touch sensor to identify the location of the touch input on the touch surface. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein the force feedback signal includes a frequency selected as a function of the location of the touch input. 15. The method according to claim 13 wherein the force feedback signal includes an intensity selected as a function of the location of the touch input. 16. The method according to claim 13 wherein the force feedback signal includes a pulse sequence selected as a function of the location of the touch input. 17. The method according to claim 13 wherein the touch sensor includes an electro-optical sensor. 18. The method according to claim 11 further including providing a transducer. 19. The method according to claim 18 wherein the transducer includes a piezoelectric crystal. 20. The method according to claim 11 wherein the vibrating step includes vibrating the touch surface in a direction generally perpendicular to the touch surface. 21. The method according to claim 11 wherein the touch input includes one of a finger and a thumb in contact with the touch surface. 22. The method according to claim 11 wherein the touch surface is located in an automobile passenger compartment. 23. The method according to claim 11 wherein the touch surface is located on an automobile dashboard. 24. The method according to claim 11 wherein the touch surface is operable to receive input commands for a vehicle. 25. A computer implemented method for providing tactile feedback in response to input received from a user, the method comprising: providing a touch surface including a first portion; determining a touch input of the user is proximate the first portion of the touch surface; and providing a tactile force feedback signal to the user in response to the determining step to indicate to the user that the touch input is proximate the first portion of the touch surface. 26. The method according to claim 25 further including determining the location of the touch input on the touch surface. 27. The method according to claim 26 wherein the force feedback signal includes a frequency selected as a function of the location of the touch input. 28. The method according to claim 26 wherein the force feedback signal includes an intensity selected as a function of the location of the touch input. 29. The method according to claim 26 wherein the force feedback signal includes a pulse sequence selected as a function of the location of the touch input. 30. The method according to claim 25 further including providing a transducer. 31. The method according to claim 30 wherein the transducer includes a piezoelectric transducer. 32. The method according to claim 25 wherein the touch surface is a touch screen adapted to display visually observable data. 33. The method according to claim 25 wherein the touch input includes one of a finger and a thumb in contact with the touch surface. 34. The method according to claim 25 wherein the touch surface is located in an automobile passenger compartment. 35. The method according to claim 25 wherein the touch surface is located on an automobile dashboard. 36. The method according to claim 25 wherein the touch surface is operable to receive input commands for a vehicle. 