A packing installation having a handling head (10) with replaceable tulip-like gripping tools (11) connected by couplers (13). The installation has a magazine (15) with separate groups of tools (11) and a several presentation units (23) for the tools. The presentation units (23) have a spindle (25) to accommodate the tools (11). The spindle (25) is a floating type to give some flexibility and to engage the tools (11) not only during the depositing operation, but also during the gripping operation. The magazine (15) is mobile and is mounted on tracks (19) to move between its inactive position, away from the field of action of the bottle handling head (10), and its active position within the field of action of the head (10) and in particular at the station (5) where the bottles are picked up by the head (10).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Installation for packing bottles or other objects like flasks, comprising a chassis which supports a conveyor which delivers said bottles, grouped together on one or more lines to a pick-up station, a picking station where there is a pick-up operation, a packing station where there is a deposing operation, a handling head to transfer collected bottles to the packing station, which handling head comprises appropriate tulip-shaped gripping tools with pneumatic operation, which gripping tools are integral with said handling head by means of couplers which can be deactivated allowing them to be changed in order to adapt said handling head to the shape and the diameter of the neck of these bottles, wherein the installation further comprises a magazine making it possible to house at least two separate groups of gripping tools, which magazine comprises presentation units suited to the shapes and dimensions of said gripping tools, which presentation units are constituted by a spindle, of floating type, for receiving, fixing and centering said gripping tools, which spindle is integral with a tray of the magazine by means of a suspension permitting relative controlled displacement, in order to provide a flexibility and to cooperate with said gripping tools both during the depositing operation and during the pick-up operation of the gripping tools. 2. Installation according to claim 1, wherein the coupler arranged between the handling head and each gripping tool comprises a positioning lock in the form of an actuator which cooperate with the rod of the gripping tool, which positioning lock, or actuator, is subjected to a spring-type elastic element for the locking in position of said gripping tool on said handling head and to a fluid delivered by a line in order to release the rod of said gripping tool. 3. Installation according to claim 1, wherein each presentation unit is constituted by a centring device in the form of a spindle the diameter of which corresponds to that of the internal cavity of the corresponding gripping tool, which spindle comprises, at its lower part, a flange which acts as a stop and constitutes the reference plane for the depositing of said gripping tool. 4. Installation according to claim 3, wherein the spindle of the presentation unit is presented in the form of a skirt and this skirt cooperates with a base which is integral with the tray of the magazine, which skirt has a degree of freedom in relation to its base and is permanently pressed against said base by appropriate means which tend to hold it in its normal position for picking up and storing the gripping tools. 5. Installation according to claim 4, wherein the base of the skirt comprises a vertical shaft which is integral with the tray of the magazine, which shaft comprises two guides for centring said skirt: --a guide arranged at its upper part and--a guide of the same type arranged at its lower part, which guides are in the form of truncated cones oriented in the same way with the tip downwards and they cooperate with bearings of corresponding shape, arranged respectively at the upper and lower ends of said skirt. 6. Installation according to claim 5, wherein the means used for permanently pressing the skirt against the two seats are constituted by a spring-like elastic element which is inserted between the lower guide and a shoulder arranged in said skirt, under the upper conical bearing of the latter. 7. Installation according to claim 1, wherein the magazine is constituted by a mobile structure mounted, in particular, on tracks which are attached laterally onto the chassis of said packing installation, which magazine is mobile by means of an actuator-type operating device, integrated between said magazine and said chassis, in order to cause said magazine to pass from its inactive position, out of the field of action of the bottle-handling head, to its active position in said field of action of said handling head and in particular at the pick-up station where the bottles are picked up by said handling head. 8. Installation according to claim 7, wherein the magazine comprises several zones for receiving the groups of gripping tools: --a free zone for receiving and holding the group of tools in place on the handling head and--at least one zone for receiving and storing the group or groups of gripping tools which can be used as a variant, and it comprises sensors which are arranged in order to check the presence, or the absence, of the different groups of said gripping tools, both in the magazine and on the handling head. 9. The installation according to claim 1, wherein the bottles are flasks. 10. An installation for packing containers, comprising: a chassis that supports a conveyor that delivers the containers, grouped together on one or more lines to a pick-up station; a picking station where a pick-up operation occurs; a packing station where a deposing operation occurs; a handling head that transfers collected containers to the packing station, the handling head comprises pneumatic tulip-shaped gripping tools, the gripping tools are releasably coupled to the handling head by a coupler that is configured to be selectively deactivated; a magazine housing at least two separate groups of gripping tools, the magazine comprises mounts shaped and dimensioned to support said gripping tools, each of the mounts comprising a floating spindle that receives, fixes and centers a corresponding one of the gripping tools; the spindle is integral with the magazine and supported for relative displacement with respect to the handling head to carry out a change of the gripping tools coupled to the handling head by deposition of the gripping tools coupled to the handling head into the magazine and by coupling to the handling head to new gripping tools picked up from the magazine. 11. The installation according to claim 10, wherein the containers are bottles. 