Disclosed are a method, device kit, and automated system for simple, reproducible, and high-throughput quantification of mRNA from whole blood. More particularly, the method, device, kit and automated system involve combinations of leukocyte filters attached to oligo(dT)-immobilized multi-well plates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of isolating mRNA from a cell lysate, comprising: providing oligo(dT) polynucleotides immobilized on a solid support; introducing a cell lysate comprising mRNA to the oligo(dT) polynucleotides, thereby creating a reaction mixture comprising the mRNA and the oligo(dT) polynucleotides; maintaining said reaction mixture for overnight at a temperature between 4.degree. C. and 15.degree. C., thereby permitting hybridization of the mRNA and the oligo(dT) polynucleotides and forming hybridized mRNA; and separating other components of the cell lysate from the hybridized mRNA, thereby resulting in mRNA isolated from the cell lysate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the solid support comprises a multi-well plate. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the cell lysate is obtained by lysis of whole blood. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein an anticoagulant is administered to the whole blood prior to said lysis. 5. The method of claim 3, where the whole blood is frozen prior to said lysis. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein the cell lysate is obtained by removing erythrocytes and other blood components from the whole blood by filtration, yielding leukocytes on a filter membrane, and lysing the leukocytes on the filter membrane. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising washing the leukocytes on the filter membrane with a hypotonic buffer to remove said erythrocytes and said other blood components prior to said lysis. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising drying the filter membrane. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the leukocytes are lysed using a lysis buffer comprising: (a) a detergent at sufficient concentration to lyse at least one cytoplasmic membrane of a cell; (b) a salt at a sufficient concentration to act as an mRNA-oligo(dT) hybridizing agent; (c) 1.4 M-1.75 M guanidine thiocyanate; and (d) 200 .mu.g/ml-20 mg/ml proteinase K. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said 1.4M-1.75 M guanidine thiocyanate are 1.6 M-1.7 M, wherein said 200 .mu.g/ml-20 mg/ml proteinase K are 200 .mu.g/ml-1.0 mg/ml and wherein the lysis buffer additionally comprises an ingredient selected from the group consisting of 1 mM-100 mM Tris HCL, and a chelating agent in an amount sufficient to chelate Mg.sup.2+ and Ca.sup.2+. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the lysis buffer further comprises one of DNA and tRNA. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction mixture further comprises a spiked control RNA. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the spiked control RNA is selected from the group consisting of bcr-abl RNA and poly(A).sup.+ RNA. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction mixture further comprises specific antisense primers. 15. A method of quantifying a specific mRNA isolated from a cell lysate, comprising: isolating mRNA from a cell lysate using the method of claim 1; and quantifying the specific mRNA in said mRNA isolated from said cell lysate. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said quantifying the specific mRNA comprises synthesizing cDNA from the specific mRNA and amplifying the cDNA. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said amplifying the cDNA comprises performing a polymerase chain reaction. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein the specific mRNA is selected from the group consisting of actin mRNA, CD4 mRNA, the mRNA of a translocation gene involved in leukemia, the mRNA of a cancer-specific gene from micrometastatic cancer, virus-derived mRNA from infected white blood cells, the mRNA of an apoptosis gene involved in leukemia, the mRNA of a cytokine, the mRNA of a DNA-repair gene, and the mRNA of an allergen response gene. 19. The method of claim 12, further comprising determining the quantity of a specific mRNA in the cell lysate using the spiked control RNA. 20. A method of hybridizing mRNA to oligo(dT) polynucleotides immobilized on a solid support, comprising: exposing the mRNA to the oligo(dT) polynucleotides for overnight at a temperature between 4.degree. C. and 15.degree. C., thereby permitting hybridization of the mRNA and the oligo(dT) polynucleotides. 