Methods and apparatus are provided for defending against telephone-based robotic attacks An interactive voice response method is provided for presenting a menu having one or more menu options to a caller. The method comprises the steps of obtaining a script to present to the caller, the script including the one or more menu options; permuting one or more characteristics of at least one of the one or more menu options; and presenting the permuted menu to the caller. The permutation may comprise, for example, adding one or more additional menu options to the menu; varying a selection number associated with the at least one menu option; varying an order of at least a plurality of the menu options; or varying a wording or pronunciation of one or more menu options.
Claims We claim: 1. A method comprising: receiving, by a system, a call from a caller; in response to receiving the call, obtaining, by the system, a menu that includes a first menu option and a second menu option, wherein each menu option has a fixed position within the menu based on a selection number; permuting, by the system, the selection number of the first menu option and the second menu option without changing the fixed position of the first menu option and the second menu option, wherein the step of permuting comprises renumbering the selection number of the first menu option and the second menu option with a first randomly generated number and a second randomly generated number, respectively; and presenting, by the system, the first menu option with the second menu option to the caller after permuting. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of permuting further comprises adding a third menu option to the menu. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the third menu option is obtained from a library of menu options. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of permuting further comprises varying a wording of the first menu option. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of varying the wording of the first menu option further comprises dynamically generating the wording. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of permuting further comprises varying a pronunciation of the first menu option. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of varying the pronunciation further comprises varying one or more of a gender, rate of speech, volume, and pitch of the first menu option. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is performed when, and only when, one or more predefined criteria defining an attack are satisfied. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising quantifying a security level provided by the method. 10. A method comprising: receiving, by a system, a call from a caller; in response to receiving the call, obtaining a menu that includes a first menu option and a second menu option by the system; permuting, by the system, the first menu option and the second menu option, wherein the step of permuting comprises: (i) randomly generating, by the system, a first selection number and a second selection number, (ii) renumbering, by the system, the first menu option and the second menu option using the first selection number and the second selection number, respectively, and (iii) randomly shuffling, by the system, the first menu option and the second menu option; and presenting, by the system, the first menu option and the second menu option to the caller after permuting. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the permutation adds a third menu option to the menu. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the third menu option is obtained from a library of menu options. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the method is performed when, and only when, one or more predefined criteria defining an attack are satisfied. 14. The method of claim 10, further comprising quantifying a security level provided by the method. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the permutation varies a wording of the first menu option. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the permutation varies a pronunciation of the first menu option. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the pronunciation variation varies one or more of a gender, rate of speech, volume, and pitch of the first menu option. 