A method and apparatus for engine piston installation in which robots are used for the entire engine piston installation process. A first robot equipped with a stuffing gripper and force control picks up a piston with a connection rod, detects the piston ring presence, squeeze the rings, find the engine cylinder bore, and stuffs the piston into the cylinder bore. A second robot can be used to load and unload the engine block, hold the block and position it to the location, and indexes the crankshaft into the proper orientation for each cylinder bore. A set of tools either fixed on a stationary station or on a third robot is used to guide the piston connecting rod, transport and place on the connecting rod cap, and fasten the cap onto the connecting rod. The piston connecting rod guiding process may be omitted in piston stuffing for some types of engines.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for stuffing a piston assembly into an associated bore of an engine block, said piston assembly comprising: a rod cap; and a piston subassembly comprising a connecting rod suitable for coupling to said rod cap and a piston head, said connecting rod having a groove therein, the apparatus comprising: a first robot having a gripper for picking up said piston subassembly and inserting said piston subassembly into said associated bore of the engine block, said gripper having an extensible finger for insertion into said groove of said rod when said gripper picks up said piston subassembly for insertion into said associated bore of said engine block; and one or more tools for inserting said rod cap into said bore and allowing said rod cap to be fastened to said connecting rod. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said gripper comprises one or more jaws for grabbing said piston subassembly. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said piston head is provided with one or more rings and said gripper comprises a detection unit for detecting the presence of said one or more rings. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said gripper further comprises a pushing/suction unit for picking up said piston subassembly. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said gripper comprises an enforcement ring and driving unit for locking said jaws in position when grabbing said piston subassembly. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said detection unit is built into said one or more jaws. 7. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said detection unit comprises at least one ring-detecting sensor which is associated with a detection indicator. 8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said pushing/suction unit comprises a suction cup mounted on said pushing/suction unit to engage with a top surface of said piston subassembly when said pushing/suction unit picks up said piston subassembly. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first robot comprises a force controller for regulating a force applied during movement of the piston subassembly. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said force controller causes said first robot to perform a search for said bore during movement of the piston subassembly. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a second robot holding said engine block in a position suitable to receive said piston assembly. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said second robot comprises a controller designed to cause the orientation of said engine block into said position suitable to receive said piston assembly. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said one or more tools comprise a guiding pins and rod cap placing gripper for guiding the coupling between said rod cap and the connecting rod. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said guiding pins and rod cap placing gripper is mounted on and moved by a third robot. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said one or more tools further comprise: a cap feeder suitable to receive a rod cap; and a pusher for maintaining the piston subassembly in position into the bore during the connection of the rod cap with the connecting rod, said cap feeder, said pusher and said guiding pins and rod cap placing gripper being mounted on a stationary bay. 16. A method for stuffing a piston assembly into an associated bore of an engine block, said piston assembly comprising a rod cap, and a piston subassembly comprising a connecting rod suitable for coupling to said rod cap and a piston head, said connecting rod having a groove therein, the method comprising: (a) picking up by a gripper held by a first robot only said piston subassembly and said first robot inserting said piston subassembly into said associated bore of the engine block; (b) inserting an extensible finger of said gripper in said connecting rod groove when said gripper picks up said piston subassembly, said extensible finger remaining in said groove to stabilize said piston subassembly when said piston subassembly is moved to said associated bore for insertion into said associated bore; and (c) inserting said rod cap into said bore and allowing said rod cap to be fastened to said connecting rod. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising: (d) holding by a second robot said engine block in a position suitable to receive said piston subassembly. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein said step (a) comprises said gripper sucking up said piston subassembly and grabbing it. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said step (d) comprises picking up said engine block, moving it close to said first robot and orientating said engine block in said position suitable to receive the piston assembly. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said piston head is provided with one or more rings and said step (a) comprises detecting the presence of said one or more rings. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein said step (a) comprises, when said piston assembly is close to said bore, activating a force control unit of the first robot so as to control the force applied by it. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising regulating the force applied by said first robot when inserting said piston assembly into said bore. 23. The method of claim 21, further comprising activating a searching function for locating said bore when said piston assembly is in contact with a surface of said engine block in which said bore is located. 24. The method of claim 16, wherein said step (c) comprises picking up said rod cap and guiding it inside said bore for coupling with said connecting rod by means of a guiding pins and rod cap placing gripper which is mounted on and moved by a third robot, and fastening said rod cap onto said connecting rod. 25. The method of claim 16, wherein said step (c) comprises picking up said rod cap by means of said first robot and putting it into a cap feeder positioned on a stationary bay, coupling said connecting rod with a guiding pins and rod cap placing gripper mounted on said stationary bay, releasing the piston subassembly from the first robot and maintaining it in position by means of a pusher provided on said stationary bay, fastening said rod cap onto said connecting rod. 