The invention provides methods and apparatus for automated sample preparation for MALDI-TOF MS using columns in combination with a liquid handling system. The samples are typically biological such as serum or urine. The columns typically include a bed of media positioned within a modified pipette tip. In some embodiments, the invention provides methods for storing the prepared samples.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated method for preparing an analyte from a sample for mass spectrometry comprising: a) providing at least one pipette tip column in operative engagement with a liquid handling system, wherein the pipette tip column is comprised of i) a column body having an open upper end, an open lower end, and an open channel between the upper and lower ends of the column body, ii) a bottom frit extending across the open channel, and iii) a bed of media positioned inside the open channel and in contact with the bottom frit; b) introducing a sample containing an analyte into the pipette tip column whereby the analyte is captured on the solid support; c) introducing a wash solution into the pipette tip column; d) optionally, repeating step (c); e) ejecting the pipette tip column from the liquid handling system; f) introducing a solvent into the open upper end of the pipette tip column with a transfer tip; g) aspirating and expelling the solid support and the solvent through the lower end of a transfer tip to produce a suspension; h) aspirating the suspension into the transfer tip from the open upper end of the pipette tip column; i) depositing the slurry onto a MALDI target; and j) at least partially drying the slurry on the MALDI target. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein a MALDI matrix is added prior to step (d) and wherein the slurry is further comprised of the MALDI matrix. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein a mass internal standard is added prior to step (d) and wherein the slurry is further comprised of the mass internal standard. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein a mass internal standard is added prior to step (d) and wherein the slurry is further comprised of the mass internal standard. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein following step (e) or step (f), a MALDI matrix is deposited over the slurry on the MALDI target. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the solid support having an analyte bound is removed from the pipette tip column following step (b). 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the solid support is selected from the group consisting of normal phase, reverse phase, ion exchange, chelator, affinity and molecular sieve. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the analyte is a biomolecule selected from the group consisting of proteins, peptides, phosphopeptides, polynucleotides, carbohydrates, lipids, nucleic acids, metabolites, polysaccharides, and small organic molecules. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the solid support is selected from the group consisting of gel resins, pellicular resins, microporous resins, fibrous resins, molecular sieve resins, macroporous resins, silica, zirconium and titanium. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the sample is selected from a group consisting of blood, urine, serum, tissue, tissue culture and cell culture. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein prior to step (e), the analyte is mixed with water, buffer or MALDI matrix and stored at a temperature between -80.degree. C. and 60.degree. C. for a period of time prior to mass spectrometry. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein following step (f), the MALDI target is stored at a temperature between -80.degree. C. and 60.degree. C. for a period of time prior to mass spectrometry. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the sample is passed back and forth through the pipette tip column repeatedly. 