A method and an apparatus for determining displacement of a surface member coupled to a user interface mechanism, for example a joystick handle, using a fixed optical motion sensor. Using the displacement of the surface member, the method, and apparatus may determine an absolute position of the surface member, recalibrating a center point upon detecting a difference in light reflection of the center point.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus, comprising: an optical motion sensor; a user interface member; and a surface member coupled to the user interface member, the surface member operatively coupled to move over the optical motion sensor, the optical motion sensor to detect a fixed reference point on the surface member, wherein the surface member includes a first reflective area having a first reflectivity and a second reflective area having a second reflectivity, and wherein the first and second reflective areas comprise: horizontal lines superimposed on a checkerboard pattern having alternating blocks of the first reflective area and the second reflective area, wherein the horizontal lines have the second reflectivity when superimposed upon blocks of the first reflective area and have the first reflectivity when superimposed upon blocks of the second reflective area; and vertical lines superimposed on the checkerboard pattern, wherein the vertical lines have the second reflectivity when superimposed upon blocks of the first reflective area and have the first reflectivity when superimposed upon blocks of the second reflective area. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical motion sensor is an optical mouse sensor. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first reflective area is less reflective than the second reflective area. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the known position is a rest position. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the user interface member is a handle. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a motion translation assembly coupled to the user interface member, the motion translation assembly to translate angular motion of the handle into linear planar motion. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the motion translation assembly comprises: a shaft having a pivot point to allow tilt of the handle in any combination of x- and y-directions; a plate having a hole, the shaft is placed through the hole; and a set of guide rails to allow the plate to move only in a plane in both x- and y-directions. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the user interface member is a trackball. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the surface member comprises a flat surface member. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the surface member comprises a curved surface member. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the curved surface member is a substantially constant distance from the optical motion sensor. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical motion sensor comprises: an array of photodiodes; an amplifier coupled to the array of photodiodes; an analog to digital converter (ADC) coupled to the amplifier; and a processing device coupled to the ADC. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising: a light source to transmit light onto the surface member; illumination optics to focus the transmitted light onto a focused area of the surface member, the surface member scatters the transmitted light forming a speckle variation; and imaging optics to focus the scattered light forming the speckle variation onto the array of photodiodes. 14. A method, comprising: moving a surface member over a fixed optical motion sensor; determining displacement of the surface member using the fixed optical motion sensor; detecting a fixed reference point on the surface member; determining an absolute position of the surface member using the displacement of the surface member; and reducing drift in the absolute position of the surface member, wherein reducing drift in the absolute position of the surface member comprises: transmitting light onto the surface member using a light source; detecting a difference in light reflection between a first reflective area and a second reflective area, the first reflective area being less reflective than the second reflective area; and recalibrating the fixed reference point upon detecting the difference in light reflection between the first and second reflective areas, and wherein determining the absolute position of the surface member further comprises: accumulating x-direction incremental displacements; storing an x-direction value of the accumulated x-direction incremental displacements; accumulating y-direction incremental displacements; storing a y-direction value of the accumulated y-direction incremental displacements; accumulating z-direction incremental displacements; storing a z-direction value of the accumulated z-direction incremental displacements; and detecting an angle of an edge of the first reflective area; and wherein reducing drift in the absolute position of the surface member comprises resetting the stored z-direction value to zero when the detected angle of the edge matches a non-rotated angle of the edge, and wherein recalibrating the fixed reference point comprises resetting the stored x-direction and y-direction values to zero. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the known position is a rest position. 16. The method of claim 14, further comprising reducing drift in the absolute position of the surface member, wherein reducing drift in the absolute position of the surface member comprises determining a duty cycle of a light source to illuminate the surface member, wherein the duty cycle of the light source comprises: a first period when detecting a first reflective area; and a second period when detecting a second reflective period, wherein the first period is more than the second period. 17. The method of claim 14, further comprising reducing drift in the absolute position of the surface member, wherein reducing drift in the absolute position of the surface member comprises: detecting a position of a vertical line and a horizontal line superimposed on a checkerboard pattern relative to the checkerboard pattern and relative to a field of view of the fixed optical motion sensor; and calculating the absolute position of the surface member using the position of the vertical and horizontal lines relative to the checkerboard pattern and relative to the field of view of the fixed optical motion sensor. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein determining displacement of the surface member comprises: scattering the transmitted light off the surface member to form a speckle variation; capturing images of the surface member; comparing images of the surface member; and determining x- and y-direction incremental displacements of the surface member using the compared images. 