Methods and apparatus for configuring process, environmental, industrial and other control systems generate and/or utilize models representing configurations of control systems and/or the systems controlled by them. Records of changes to the models or the configurations represented by them are maintained, thereby, for example, providing bases for determining current states, prior states and histories of changes. Objects in the model have characteristics, such as an object type characteristic and an area characteristic. Users can have corresponding permissions. A security mechanism apparatus controls access by users to the objects. Composite objects are defined by definition objects and are displayed in encapsulated or expanded formats. Objects can include an edit control type identifier that determines how they are presented for editing. Functionality responds to user commands by transferring characteristics of a first object depicted by the graphical user interface to a second object. Configuration-time formulas contained objects are evaluated to constants prior to downloading to the control system.
Claims What we claim is: 1. Apparatus for configuring a control system, comprising a model representing a configuration of at least one of the control system and a system controlled thereby, the model comprising a plurality of objects, at least one object is a composite object that includes a plurality of component objects suitable for inclusion in the model independent of the composite object, an application that graphically depicts at least a portion of the model including the composite object and one other object to which it is connected, the application selectively (i) depicting the model with the composite object shown in an encapsulated graphical format, and (ii) depicting the model with the composite object shown in an expanded graphical format. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the application is an editor. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the editor facilitates any of creation and modification of the model. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the model comprises, in addition to at least one composite object, at least one object of a same type as one of the component objects. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the application utilizes substantially a single graphical icon to depict the composite object in the encapsulated format. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the application utilizes multiple graphical icons to depict the composite object in the expanded format. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the multiple graphical icons represent respective component objects of the composite object. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one component object has one or more parameters identifying characteristics of the entity represented by the component object. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein at least one parameter has attributes defining any of a name, grouping, display label, data type, behavior, help information, edit type, data value range, data value, formula definition, and display format. 10. Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein selected parameters of the component object are designated for connection with objects in the model external to the composite object. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the application shows the parameters designated for connection to other objects when depicting the model with the composite object shown in encapsulated format, and permits selection of those parameters for such connection. 12. Apparatus for configuring a control system, comprising a model representing a configuration of at least one of the control system and a system controlled thereby, the model comprising a plurality of objects, at least one object is a composite object that includes a plurality of component objects suitable for inclusion in the model independent of the composite object, a definition object that defines the composite object, a change during configuration to which definition object has effect as to the composite object, regardless of whether the change is made after the composite object is created, and an application that graphically depicts at least a portion of the model including the composite object and one other object to which it is connected, the application selectively (i) depicting the model with the composite object shown in an encapsulated graphical format, and (ii) depicting the model with the composite object shown in an expanded graphical format. 13. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the application is an editor. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the editor facilitates any of creation and modification of the model. 15. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the model comprises, in addition to at least one composite object, at least one object of a same type as one of the component objects. 16. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the application utilizes substantially a single graphical icon to depict the composite object in the encapsulated format. 17. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the application utilizes multiple graphical icons to depict the composite object in the expanded format. 18. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the multiple graphical icons represent respective component objects of the composite object. 19. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the definition object identifies the component objects, connections between the component objects internal to the composite object, and connections external to the composite object. 20. Apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the definition object defines parameters of the component object that are exposed for connection with objects in the model external to the composite object, the application shows those parameters when depicting the composite object in encapsulated format and permits selection of those parameters for such connection, and the application at least one of (i) does not show other parameters of the component object, and (ii) does not permit selection of those other parameters for such connection. 21. Apparatus according to claim 20, wherein a composite object overrides a definition from the associated definition object. 22. Apparatus for configuring a control system, comprising a database comprising a plurality of objects representing entities in any of the control system, a system controlled thereby, a control level hierarchy, and the apparatus for configuring the control system, the plurality of objects including at least one composite object that includes a plurality of component objects and that forms part of a model representing a configuration of at least one of the control system and the system controlled thereby, the plurality of objects including a definition object that defines the composite object, a digital data processor coupled with the database, the digital data processor responding to a change during configuration to the definition object by effecting that change in the composite object, regardless of whether the change is made after the composite object is created. 23. Apparatus according to claim 22, wherein the model comprises, in addition to at least one composite object, at least one object of a same type as one of the component objects. 24. Apparatus according to claim 23, adapted for process control, wherein at least one composite object includes a component object that is a control block object and wherein the model includes at least one control block object. 25. Apparatus according to claim 22, wherein at least one component object has one or more parameters identifying characteristics of the entity represented by the component object, at least one parameter having attributes defining any of a name, grouping, display label, data type, behavior, help information, edit type, data value range, data value, formula definition, and display format. 26. Apparatus according to claim 25, wherein selected parameters of the component object are exposed for connection with objects in the model external to the composite object. 27. Apparatus according to claim 26, comprising an application, coupled to the resource, that facilitates any of creation and editing of the model, the application permitting connection of the composite object with other object in the model via the exposed parameters. 28. Apparatus for configuring a process control system, comprising a model representing a configuration of at least one of the control system and a system controlled thereby, the model comprising a plurality of objects, at least one object is a loop object that includes one or more control block objects, the apparatus further including a template object that defines the loop object, a change during configuration to which template object is effective as to the loop object regardless of whether the change is made before or after the loop object is created and incorporated into the model. 29. Apparatus according to claim 28, wherein the model comprises, in addition to the loop object, at least one control block object. 30. Apparatus according to claim 28, wherein at least one control block object included in the loop object has one or more parameters pertaining to characteristics of the entity represented by the control block object, at least one parameter having attributes defining any of a name, grouping, display label, data type, behavior, help information, edit type, data value range, data value, formula definition, and display format. 31. Apparatus according to claim 30, wherein selected parameters of the control block object are exposed for connection with objects external to the loop object representing input/output points and objects external to the loop object in the model. 32. Apparatus according to claim 31,comprising an application, coupled to the resource, that facilitates any of creation and editing of the model, the application permitting connection of the loop object with other objects in the model via the exposed parameters. 33. Apparatus according to claim 32, wherein the application prevents connection of the loop object with another object via parameters that are not exposed. 34. Apparatus for configuring a control system, comprising a plurality of objects representing entities in any of the control system, a system controlled thereby, a control level hierarchy, and the apparatus for configuring the control system, the plurality of objects including at least one composite object that (i) includes a plurality of component objects suitable for inclusion in the model independent of the composite object, and (ii) forms part of a model representing a configuration of at least one of the control system and the system controlled thereby, the plurality of objects including a definition object that defines the composite object, including any of identifying the component objects, connections between the component objects internal to the composite object, and connections external to the composite object, a change to the definition object during configuration being effective as to the composite object, regardless of whether the change is made after the composite object is created. 35. Apparatus according to claim 34, wherein at least one component object has one or more parameters identifying characteristics of the entity represented by the component object. 36. Apparatus according to claim 35, wherein at least one parameter has attributes defining any of a name, grouping, display label, data type, behavior, help information, edit type, data value range, data value, formula definition, and display format. 37. Apparatus according to claim 35, wherein the definition object defines parameters of the component object that are exposed for connection with objects in the model external to the composite object. 38. Apparatus according to claim 35, wherein a composite object overrides a definition from a definition object. 39. Apparatus according to claim 38, wherein the model comprises a modifier object that is associated with a composite object and that overrides one or more parameters of one or more component objects making up the composite object. 40. Method of configuring a control system, comprising maintaining a model representing a configuration of at least one of the control system and a system controlled thereby, the model comprising a plurality of objects, at least one object is a composite object that includes a plurality of component objects suitable for inclusion in the model independent of the composite object, depicting graphically at least a portion of the model including the composite object and one other object to which it is connected, the depicting step including selectively (i) depicting the model with the composite object shown in an encapsulated graphical format, and (ii) depicting the model with the composite object shown in an expanded graphical format. 41. Method according to claim 40, comprising invoking an editor, and performing the depicting step in the context of the editor. 42. Method according to claim 41, wherein the invoking step includes invoking an editor that facilitates any of creation and modification of the model. 43. Method according to claim 40, wherein the maintaining step includes maintaining with the model, in addition to at least one composite object, at least one object of a same type as one of the component objects. 44. Method according to claim 40, wherein the invoking step includes utilizing substantially a single graphical icon to depict the composite object in the encapsulated format. 45. Method according to claim 40, wherein the invoking step includes utilizing multiple graphical icons to depict the composite object in the expanded format. 46. Method according to claim 45, wherein the invoking step includes representing respective component objects of the composite object with the multiple graphical icons. 47. Method according to claim 40, wherein the maintaining step includes maintaining one or more parameters that are associated with at least one component object and that pertaining to characteristics of the entity represented by the component object. 48. Method according to claim 47, wherein at least one parameter has attributes defining any of a name, grouping, display label, data type, behavior, help information, edit type, data value range, data value, formula definition, and display format. 49. Method according to claim 47, comprising designating selected parameters of the component object for connection with objects in the model external to the composite object. 50. Method of configuring a control system, comprising maintaining a model representing a configuration of at least one of the control system and a system controlled thereby, the model comprising a plurality of objects, at least one object is a composite object that includes a plurality of component objects suitable for inclusion in the model independent of the composite object, maintaining a definition object that defines the composite object, responding to a change during configuration to the definition object by effecting a corresponding change in the composite object, regardless of whether the change is made after the composite object is created, and depicting graphically at least a portion of the model including the composite object and one other object to which it is connected, the depicting step including selectively (i) depicting the model with the composite object shown in an encapsulated graphical format, and (ii) depicting the model with the composite object shown in an expanded graphical format. 51. Method according to claim 50, comprising invoking an editor, and performing the depicting step in the context of the editor. 52. Method according to claim 51, wherein the invoking step includes invoking an editor that facilitates any of creation and modification of the model. 53. Method according to claim 50, wherein the maintaining step includes maintaining with the model, in addition to at least one composite object, at least one object of a same type as one of the component objects. 54. Method according to claim 50, wherein the invoking step includes utilizing substantially a single graphical icon to depict the composite object in the encapsulated format. 55. Method according to claim 50, wherein the invoking step includes utilizing multiple graphical icons to depict the composite object in the expanded format. 56. Method according to claim 55, wherein the invoking step includes representing respective component objects of the composite object with the multiple graphical icons. 57. Method according to claim 50, comprising defining, in the definition object, the component objects, connections between the component objects internal to the composite object, and connections external to the composite object. 58. Method according to claim 57; wherein the defining step includes defining parameters of the component object that are exposed for connection with objects in the model external to the composite object, the depicting step includes showing in the encapsulated format parameters that are designated for connection to other objects and permitting selection of those parameters for such connection, the depicting step including (i) not showing in the encapsulated format parameters that are not designated for connection to other objects, and (ii) not permitting selection of those parameters for such connection. 59. Method according to claim 58, comprising overriding in a composite object a definition from a definition object. 