Systems and methods are described for performing image analysis. A computer-implemented method for analyzing images may include quantitatively analyzing image data to identify image objects relative to a background portion of the image according to predefined object criteria, the image data including a plurality of image objects that represent objects in a sample distributed across a substrate. The identified image objects are further clustered into groups or colonies of the identified image objects according to predetermined clustering criteria.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-implemented method for analyzing an image, comprising: providing a montaged image that comprises plural images corresponding to part of one or more samples; quantitatively analyzing image data to identify image objects relative to a background portion of the montaged image according to at least one predefined object criteria; and clustering the identified image objects into groups or colonies of the identified image objects according to at least one predefined clustering criteria. 2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising calculating morphological characteristics of the groups or colonies. 3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the calculating morphological characteristics further comprises at least one of: determining a number of cells; determining a size of a colony; determining cell density within at least one of the groups or colonies; determining cell distribution with at least one of the groups or colonies; and determining expression of a predetermined marker for a given one of the groups or colonies. 4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing results that quantitatively describes at least one of colony morphology and cell morphology. 5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: repeating the quantitatively analyzing, clustering and providing results under a plurality of different conditions; and assessing an efficacy of different processing techniques for the plurality of different conditions. 6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one predefined object criteria comprises at least one user-adjustable threshold set according to a characteristic of objects being clustered into the groups or colonies. 7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising storing parameter values that parameterize the computer-implemented method, including at least a portion of the quantitatively analyzing and the clustering, at least a portion of the parameter values being selectable in response to a user input. 8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising storing a plurality of templates, each of the plurality of templates comprising a set of stored parameter values that parameterize at least a portion of the computer-implemented method, each of templates being selectable in response to a user input. 9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein each of the plurality of templates comprises a set of parameters encapsulating parameterization of an image processing protocol for the one or more samples. 10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising one of modifying parameters of an existing template or creating a new template in response to a user input. 11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising differentiating at least one of morphological features and chemical features in a given image based on marker criteria. 12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the marker criteria comprises at least one of morphologic markers, immunochemical markers, and dye markers. 13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing identifying data, the identifying data including an indication of a location for objects in each group or colony that exhibits at least one predefined selection criteria. 14. An image analysis system, comprising: an image acquisition system that provides image data that defines an image having a plurality of image objects that represent corresponding objects in a physical sample; an analysis engine that segments image objects relative to an image background according to predefined object criteria to provide a segmented image, the analysis engine clusters image objects in the segmented image into groups or colonies of the image objects according to predetermined clustering criteria; and a user interface programmed to selectively adjust at least one of the predefined object criteria and the predetermined clustering criteria in response to a user input. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising at least one template that includes a set of stored parameters that define at least one of the predefined object criteria and the predetermined clustering criteria, at least one of the stored parameters of the at least one template being adjustable in response to a user input via the user interface. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising a plurality of different templates, each comprising different stored parameters for defining at least one of the predefined object criteria and the predetermined clustering criteria according to application requirements, a control being programmed to select a given one of the plurality of different templates in response to a user input. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the control is programmed to modify at least one parameter in a selected given one of the plurality of different templates in response to a user input. 18. The system of claim 15, further comprising a display that concurrently displays a representation of each of a plurality of images defined by respective sets of the image data, at least one of the concurrently displayed representation of the plurality of images being modified in response to changes in the at least one of the stored parameters that cause changes in parameterization of an image analysis process employed by the analysis engine. 19. The system of claim 14, wherein the analysis engine is programmed to differentiate at least one of morphological features and chemical features in a given image based on marker criteria. 20. The system of claim 14, wherein the analysis engine is programmed to provide identifying data, the identifying data including an indication of a location for objects that exhibits at least one predefined selection criteria. 