Configurations are provided for vehicular robots or other vehicles to provide shifting of their centers of gravity for enhanced obstacle navigation. Various head and neck morphologies are provided to allow positioning for various poses such as a stowed pose, observation poses, and inspection poses. Neck extension and actuator module designs are provided to implement various head and neck morphologies. Robot control network circuitry is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot capable of addressing various obstacles, the robot comprising: a chassis defining a central open volume and having a chassis center of gravity; a steerable drive supporting the chassis; a set of driven flippers, each flipper having a proximal end, a distal end, and a flipper center of gravity therebetween, each the proximal end of each flipper coupled to the chassis near the leading end of the chassis; a neck having a pivot end, a distal end, and a neck center of gravity therebetween, the neck pivotable about a second pivot axis substantially at the leading end of the chassis, having at least two tilt axis actuators along a length thereof; and a sensor head at the distal end of the neck, the head having a pivot end, a distal end, and a head center of gravity therebetween, the head pivotable with respect to the neck about a third pivot axis at the distal end of the neck; the neck and sensor head being movable between different configurations including: (i) a stable stair ascending position in which the centers of gravity of the head, neck, and flippers are positioned to shift a vertical projection of the overall center of gravity of the robot to at least one step span in front of the rearmost main track ground contact point and at least one step span behind the foremost flipper track ground contact point; and (ii) an unstable stair ascending position in which the centers of gravity of the head, neck, and flippers are positioned to shift a vertical projection of the overall center of gravity of the robot to outside the stable range. 2. The robot of claim 1, further comprising a pan link extension having a one-axis actuator along a length thereof, the pan link comprising at least first and second sectional pieces disposed at an angle to offset the sensor head from the neck extension such that the sensor head may move to point the sensor face to a right angle to the neck in a first active position and the sensor head may move to point the sensor face approximately parallel to the neck extension in a second stowed position. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein the neck includes an offset for receiving the head in line with a portion of the neck in a stowed position in which the head and neck are substantially within a chassis profile. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein the robot is capable of moving to one or more preset positions in response to a respective single operator command. 5. The robot of claim 1, wherein the head houses at least part of a robot energy storage device. 6. The robot of claim 1, wherein a total weight of the robot is less than about 30 pounds, the sensor head comprises about 15 percent of a total weight of the robot and the neck comprises about 5 percent of a total weight of the robot. 7. The robot of claim 1, wherein the neck extension comprises one or more pass-through regions therein through which one or more power cables are disposed, the one or more power cables providing power from batteries disposed on the chassis or steerable drive to a controller in the sensor head. 8. The robot of claim 7, further comprising a network switch disposed on the chassis, the network switch operably coupled to at least one network cable connected to the sensor head from the chassis through the one or more pass-through regions and operably coupling the network switch to the controller. 9. The robot of claim 7, further comprising power management circuitry disposed on the chassis and operably coupled to circuitry in the sensor head through a power management bus at least partially disposed in the pass-through regions. 10. A robot comprising: a chassis a steerable drive supporting the chassis; a neck extension removably coupled to the chassis by a neck connector; a pan link extension having proximal and distal ends and being coupled to the neck extension at the proximal end with a first tilt axis actuator, the pan link extension having a one-axis actuator along a length thereof, the pan link extension having at least one angled bend; and a sensor head coupled to the distal end of the pan link extension with a second tilt axis actuator, the sensor head movable using the first and second tilt axis actuators and the pan one-axis actuator; wherein the neck connector comprises: a connector base attached to the chassis; a neck connector piece attached to the neck extension; and a tool-less connector configured to releasably couple the connector base to the neck connector piece with substantially zero backlash. 11. The robot of claim 10, wherein the tool-less connector comprises a latch rotatably mounted to a latch base coupled to the chassis. 12. The robot of claim 11, wherein the latch comprises a plunger received by a receiving slot defined by the neck connector piece, the plunger securing the neck connector piece to the connector base. 13. The robot of claim 12, wherein the plunger is threadably received by the latch base and adjustable to for setting a closing force position of the latch. 14. The robot of claim 10, wherein the connector base comprises electrical contacts configured to match with corresponding con electrical contacts of the neck connector. 15. The robot of claim 10, wherein the neck extension comprises one or more pass-through regions therein through which one or more power cables are disposed, the one or more power cables providing power from batteries disposed on the chassis or steerable drive to a controller in the sensor head. 16. The robot of claim 15, further comprising a network switch disposed on the chassis, the network switch operably coupled to at least one network cable connected to the sensor head from the chassis through the one or more pass-through regions and operably coupling the network switch to the controller. 17. The robot of claim 15, further comprising power management circuitry disposed on the chassis and operably coupled to circuitry in the sensor head through a power management bus at least partially disposed in the pass-through regions. 18. The robot of claim 10, wherein the chassis defines a central open volume having a stowage cavity, the sensor head further comprises at least one front sensor face, the neck extension and sensor head moveable into a first upright position in which the sensor face points to substantially a right angle from the neck extension, and a second stowed position, the pan link comprising at least first and second sectional pieces disposed at an angle necessary to offset the sensor head from the neck extension such that the sensor head may move to point the sensor face to approximately parallel to the neck extension. 19. The robot of claim 18, wherein the neck extension comprises at least a first piece and a second offset piece, the offset piece being approximately parallel to the first piece and connected to the first piece such that when the sensor head is in the first stowed position, the offset piece is offset below the first piece. 20. The robot of claim 18, wherein the second tilt axis actuator is rotatable 360 degrees. 21. The robot of claim 18, wherein the first and second tilt actuators and the one-axis actuator each comprise an actuator motor, a motor driver, digital logic circuitry for controlling the motor driver, and transceiver circuitry for communicating with an actuator control bus. 22. The robot of claim 18, further comprising a shoulder tilt actuator coupling the neck extension to the chassis, the shoulder tilt actuator comprising an actuator motor, a motor driver, digital logic circuitry for controlling the motor driver, and transceiver circuitry for communicating with an actuator control bus, the transceiver circuitry of the first tilt axis actuator includes first and second transceivers, the first transceiver for communicating over the actuator control bus to the shoulder tilt actuator, the second transceiver for communicating with the one-axis actuator. 