Techniques for improving treatment delivered to a target site in a patient include delivering a treatment from a treatment delivery device to a target site in a patient supported by a patient support structure. During the delivery of treatment, a state of the patient is measured to produce real-time measurement data. Measuring the state is non-invasive; and the measured state is a correlated surrogate for position of the target site. Compensating movement data is determined based on the real-time measurement data to cause the target site to maintain a particular spatial relationship with the treatment delivery device. Either the treatment delivery device, or the support structure, or both, are moved based on the compensating movement data. When the delivery device alone is moved, the correlation between measured state and target site is based on partial least squares applied to pre-treatment measurements of both.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of delivering a treatment to a target site in a patient, said method comprising: delivering a treatment with a treatment delivery device to a target site in a patient supported by a patient support structure; measuring a state of the patient while delivering the treatment to produce feedback, wherein the measuring comprises using a real-time surrogate for movement of the target site; and moving the patient support structure based on the feedback acquired while delivering the treatment by compensating for disturbances on the target site as a function of disturbance on the target site due to both the patient and the patient support structure, wherein the patient support structure is used to compensate for the disturbances of the target site. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient support structure is moved automatically. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient support structure is moved manually. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein an automatic feedback control system is used to move the patient support structure. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein an automatic feedback control system employing a prediction of the target site is used. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the information regarding the target state is measured at regular time intervals. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the information regarding the target state is measured at irregular time intervals. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the information regarding the target state is measured directly using transponders embedded in the target emitting information to a detection system regarding the location of the transponders. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the information regarding target state is measured directly using radioactive material embedded in the target emitting information to a detection system regarding the location of the radioactive material. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the information regarding target state is measured using images of the target acquired continuously, intermittently or irregularly throughout treatment. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the images are acquired using ultrasound. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the images are acquired using fluoroscopy. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the images are acquired using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the images are acquired using computed tomography (CT). 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the images are acquired using emission tomography. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the images are acquired using photoacoustic imaging. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein the images are acquired thermography. 18. The method of claim 10, wherein the images are acquired using a surface rendering of the patient's body. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the surface rendering is created using one or more scanning laser(s). 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the surface rendering is created using a one or more camera system(s). 21. The method of claim 10, wherein the images are acquired using at least one of the following modalities: ultrasound, fluoroscopy, MRI, CT, photoacoustic imaging, thermography, scanning laser-based body surface rendering, and camera-based body surface rendering. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the information regarding target state is inferred based on a correlation between the internal target state and one or more external sources. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the correlation between the state of the patient and the position of the target site is determined using temporally overlapping measurements of the state of the patient over time and a plurality of images of the target site. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein the correlation between the state of the patient and the position of the target site is inferred prospectively using measurements of the state of the patient. 25. The method of claim 22, wherein the external sources include one or more camera systems. 26. The method of claim 22, wherein the external sources include one or more scanning lasers. 27. The method of claim 22, wherein the external sources include one or more respiratory strain gauges. 28. The method of claim 22, wherein the external sources include a spirometer. 29. The method of claim 22, wherein the external sources include one or more thermographic devices. 30. The method of claim 22, wherein the external sources include at least one of the following: one or more camera systems, one or more scanning lasers, one or more respiratory strain gauges, spirometer, and thermographic devices. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein compensating for disturbances on the target site includes subtracting a position of the patient support structure from itself plus an inferred position of the target site. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein compensating for disturbances on the target site includes subtracting a position of the patient support structure from itself plus a position of a surrogate of the target site. 