An integrated processing tool is described comprising a full-wafer processing module and a combinatorial processing module. Chemicals for use in the combinatorial processing module are fed from a delivery system including a set of first manifolds. An output of each first manifold is coupled to at least one mixing vessel. An output of each mixing vessel feeds more than one of a set of second manifolds. An output of each set of second manifolds feeds one of multiple site-isolated reactors of the combinatorial processing module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated processing tool comprising a site-isolated reactor (SIR), wherein the SIR includes: a set of first manifolds, wherein each of the first manifolds is coupled to a plurality of chemicals in a liquid state; a plurality of mixing vessels, wherein each mixing vessel is coupled to an output of each of the first manifolds, and wherein each of the mixing vessels includes a stirring element; a set of second manifolds, wherein each of the second manifolds is coupled to an output of multiple mixing vessels; and a plurality of flow cells, wherein each flow cell is coupled to an output of at least one of the second manifolds. 2. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of first manifolds includes a plurality of inputs. 3. The tool of claim 1, wherein one or more of the first manifolds and the second manifolds is coupled to a vacuum source. 4. The tool of claim 1, comprising an in-line mixer coupled between a second manifold and a corresponding flow cell. 5. The tool of claim 1, wherein the first and second manifolds are configured to sequence the plurality of chemicals one or more of individually or in a plurality of combinations. 6. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of first manifolds is configured to vary independently a composition formed in each mixing vessel. 7. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of first manifolds is configured to vary independently a volume to each mixing vessel. 8. The tool of claim 1, wherein each mixing vessel includes one or more of a temperature control element and a pH control element. 9. The tool of claim 1, wherein an output of each mixing vessel is coupled to an external flow mechanism configured to selectively direct output from each mixing vessel to one of the set of second manifolds or waste. 10. The tool of claim 1, wherein at least one second manifold is coupled to a plurality of chemicals, and wherein an input for each of the multiple mixing vessels and for the plurality of chemicals into the second manifold is separate from each other. 11. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of second manifolds are configured to sequence one or more of the plurality chemicals and the output of at least one mixing vessel. 12. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of second manifolds feeds a separate flow cell. 13. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of second manifolds is configured to flow the plurality chemicals to the flow cell one or more of sequentially and simultaneously. 14. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of second manifolds is configured to flow the plurality chemicals to the flow cell using one or more of serial, rapid serial, serial/parallel, and parallel delivery. 15. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of second manifolds is configured to serially flow the plurality chemicals to each flow cell of the plurality of flow cells. 16. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of second manifolds is configured to serially flow the plurality chemicals to each of the plurality of flow cells. 17. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of second manifolds is configured to flow in parallel the plurality chemicals to each flow cell of a first set of flow cells of the plurality of flow cells and a second set of flow cells of the plurality of flow cells. 18. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of second manifolds is configured to flow in parallel the chemicals to each of the plurality of flow cells. 19. The tool of claim 1, wherein the set of second manifolds is configured to serially flow the chemicals to each flow cell of a first set of flow cells of the plurality of flow cells and to flow in parallel the chemicals to each flow cell of a second set of flow cells of the plurality of flow cells. 20. The tool of claim 1, wherein a body of each flow cell includes a plurality of process paths for delivering compositions from the set of second manifolds. 21. The tool of claim 20, wherein the body includes a plurality of waste paths for directing waste away from the flow cell. 22. The tool of claim 21, wherein each of the process paths and waste paths include a plurality of valves, wherein a configuration of the valves allows purging of a first process path simultaneous with delivering compositions to the flow cell via a second process path. 23. The tool of claim 1, comprising a reactor block coupled to a plurality of sleeves, wherein a set of sleeves is configured to receive each flow cell, wherein a set of sleeves and a flow cell in combination form a SIR vessel. 24. The tool of claim 23, comprising a fixture coupled to the plurality of flow cells, wherein the fixture is configured to manipulate a vertical position of the plurality of flow cells relative to the set of sleeves, wherein the fixture is configured to dynamically and independently control a volume of each SIR vessel. 25. The tool of claim 1, wherein a position of the flow cells is fixed. 26. The tool of claim 1, comprising: a third manifold coupled to the plurality of chemicals; and a full wafer reactor coupled to the third manifold. 27. The tool of claim 1, comprising a full-wafer reactor coupled to an output of at least one first manifold. 28. The tool of claim 1, comprising a full-wafer reactor coupled to an output of at least one mixing vessel. 29. The tool of claim 1, comprising a full-wafer reactor coupled to an output of at least one second manifold. 