Methods and systems are provided for a vacuum-based semiconductor handling system. The system may be a linear system with a four-link robotic SCARA arm for moving materials in the system. The system may include one or more vertically stacked load locks or vertically stacked process modules.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor manufacturing system adapted to handle a wafer, the semiconductor manufacturing system comprising: a plurality of vertically stacked loading stations; a shared vacuum environment coupled to the loading stations; one or more vertically stacked mid-entry stations coupled to the shared vacuum environment; and a plurality of process modules arranged in a linear system and sharing the shared vacuum environment, wherein the shared vacuum environment has a loading end and an exit end at opposite ends of the linear system, the plurality of process modules being vertically stacked process modules that are arranged in a 2-level configuration having a top level and a bottom level, the top level rotated substantially 45-degrees relative to the bottom level. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the system includes a SCARA arm robotic component for passing materials between the process modules. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the system includes a four-link SCARA robotic arm. 4. The system of claim 2 wherein the robotic arm passes materials from arm to arm among the process modules. 5. The system of claim 2 wherein the robotic arm moves in the vertical direction to service at least one of vertically stacked process modules. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the system includes dual, vertically opposed robotic arms. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the arms are four-link SCARA arms. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein one of the plurality of vertically stacked loading stations feeds a manufacturing process that includes one or more of the plurality of vertically stacked processing modules. 9. The system of claim 8 further comprising a controller configured to effect loading a second one of the plurality of vertically stacked loading stations while the one of the plurality of vertically stacked loading stations feeds the manufacturing process. 10. The system of claim 1 further comprising a controller configured to coordinate loading of the plurality of vertically stacked loading modules to minimize wait time. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the plurality of vertically stacked processing modules are arranged to reduce a footprint for the system. 12. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one robot can access any one of the vertically stacked load stations. 13. The system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of vertically stacked exit stations. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one robotic component can access more than one vertically stacked process module. 15. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one robotic component can access more than one horizontally adjacent processing module. 16. The system of claim 1 further comprising at least one holding station between two horizontally adjacent processing modules. 17. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one robotic component can access more than one vertically stacked mid-entry station. 18. The system of claim 1 wherein a workpiece can move through a plurality of different paths of adjacent processing modules. 