An apparatus includes a body, an eccentric load, a rotational motor coupled to the body and adapted to rotate the eccentric load, and a plurality of legs each having a leg base and a leg tip at a distal end relative to the leg base. At least a portion of the plurality of legs are constructed from a flexible material, are injection molded, are integrally coupled to the body at the leg base, and include at least one driving leg configured to cause the apparatus to move in a direction generally defined by an offset between the leg base and the leg tip as the rotational motor rotates the eccentric load.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a body; a rotational motor coupled to the body; an eccentric load, wherein the rotational motor is adapted to rotate the eccentric load; a plurality of legs each having a leg base and a leg tip at a distal end relative to the leg base, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of legs are: constructed from a flexible material; integrally coupled to the body at the leg base; and include at least one driving leg configured to cause the apparatus to move in a direction generally defined by an offset between the leg base and the leg tip as the rotational motor rotates the eccentric load; and wherein each of the plurality of legs has a diameter of at least five percent of a length of the leg between the leg base and the leg tip and forces from rotation of the eccentric load interact with a resilient characteristic of the at least one driving leg to cause the at least one driving leg to propel the apparatus in a forward direction and to leave a support surface as the apparatus translates in the forward direction. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the legs are arranged in two single file rows, with the leg base of the legs in each row coupled to the body substantially along a lateral edge of the body. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the body includes a housing, the legs are integrally coupled to a portion of the housing at the leg base, and wherein at least a portion of the housing is situated between the two rows of legs and extends below the leg base of the plurality of legs in the direction of the leg tip of the plurality of legs. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of legs include multiple leg pairs, with each leg pair including a first leg coupled to the body substantially along a first lateral edge of the body and a second leg coupled to the body substantially along a second lateral edge, substantially opposite the first lateral edge, of the body, and the first leg for at least one leg pair includes different drag characteristics than the second leg for the at least one leg pair, with the different drag characteristics configured to counteract a tendency of the apparatus to turn as a result of a rotation of the eccentric load, and wherein the first leg and the second leg for the at least one leg pair are situated substantially equal distances from a center of gravity of the apparatus. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the legs are arranged in a first row and a second row, with each row arranged substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of the body and with each leg in the first row having a corresponding leg in the second row, and at least one of the legs in the first row that contacts a supporting surface as rotation of the eccentric load induces movement of the apparatus is longitudinally offset from a corresponding leg in the second row that contacts a supporting surface as rotation of the eccentric load induces movement of the apparatus, wherein the longitudinal offset alters a tendency of the apparatus to turn as rotation of the eccentric load induces movement of the apparatus. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the rotational motor has an axis of rotation that is substantially parallel to the leg tips of the plurality of legs and passes within 20% of a center of gravity of the apparatus as a percentage of the height of the apparatus to induce a substantially constant rolling force. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the housing is configured to facilitate rolling of the apparatus about a longitudinal center of gravity, based on a rotation of the eccentric load, with the apparatus on a substantially fat surface when the legs are not oriented such that a leg tip of at least one leg on each lateral side of the body contacts the substantially flat surface. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the plurality of legs are arranged in two rows and the rows are substantially parallel to the axis of rotation of the rotational motor, and wherein at least some of the leg tips that contact the substantially flat surface tend to substantially prevent rolling of the apparatus based on a spacing of the two rows of legs when the legs are oriented such that a leg tip of at least one leg on each lateral side of the body contacts the substantially flat surface. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein an axis of rotation of the rotational motor passes sufficiently close to a longitudinal center of gravity of the apparatus to induce a substantially constant tendency for the apparatus to roll about the longitudinal center of gravity and the body includes a housing configured to facilitate rolling of the apparatus about the longitudinal center of gravity, with the substantially constant tendency for the apparatus to roll and the configuration of the housing to facilitate rolling about the longitudinal center of gravity enabling the apparatus to roll onto the legs based on forces from rotation of the eccentric load. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the body includes a housing having a front end, rear end, top side, bottom side, and lateral sides, wherein the front end includes a resilient nose adapted to contact obstacles and having a resiliency adapted to facilitate bouncing off of obstacles and causing the apparatus to deflect off of obstacles at an angle as the apparatus moves in the forward direction. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a coefficient of friction of a portion of at least a subset of the legs that contact a support surface is sufficient to substantially eliminate drifting in a lateral direction. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein fewer than twenty legs contact a support surface as the at least one driving leg causes the apparatus to move. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the legs are sufficiently stiff that four or fewer legs are capable of supporting the apparatus without substantial deformation when the apparatus is in an upright position. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of legs include a plurality of driving legs arranged in at least one pair and the eccentric load is configured to be located closer to a front end of the apparatus than a forward-most pair of driving legs, wherein the front end of the apparatus is defined by an end in a direction that the apparatus primarily tends to move as the rotational motor rotates the eccentric load. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of legs are integrally molded with at least a portion of the body. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the plurality of legs are co-molded with at least a portion of the body constructed from a different material. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the flexible material includes an elastomer. 18. An apparatus comprising: a body; a rotational motor coupled to the body; an eccentric load wherein the rotational motor is adapted to rotate the eccentric load; a plurality of legs each having a leg a leg tip at a distal end relative to the leg base, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of legs are: constructed from a flexible material; integrally coupled to the body at the leg base; and include at least one driving leg configured to cause the apparatus to move in a direction generally defined by the leg base and the leg tip as the rotational motor rotates the eccentric load; and wherein at least a subset of the plurality of legs, including the at least one driving leg, are curved and are arranged in a row, and a ratio of a radius of curvature of the curved legs to leg length of the curved legs is in a range of 2.5 to 20 and forces from rotation of the eccentric load interact with a resilient characteristic of the at least one driving leg to cause the at least one driving leg to propel the apparatus in a forward direction and to leave a support surface as the apparatus translates in the forward direction. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein each of the plurality of legs has a diameter of at least five percent of a length of the leg between the leg base and the leg tip. 20. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the plurality of legs include a plurality of driving legs arranged in at least one pair and the eccentric load is configured to be located closer to a front end of the apparatus than a forward-most pair of driving legs, wherein the front end of the apparatus is defined by an end in a direction that the apparatus primarily tends to move as the rotational motor rotates the eccentric load. 