A robotic painting system includes a device for generating a vacuum and a dump line disposed upstream from a connection between an isolation line and a canister, wherein the device for generating a vacuum and the dump line are employed for filling and cleaning the robotic painting system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-axis painting robot system comprising: a robot having an outer arm moveable within a spray booth; an at least two-axis wrist with one end attached to the outer arm; a paint applicator attached to an other end of said wrist; a paint metering device mounted on the robot and in fluid communication with the paint applicator, the paint metering device in fluid communication with a paint supply valve; and a color changer mounted on the robot and in fluid communication with the paint metering device and the paint supply valve, wherein a vacuum is subjected to at least one of the internal passages of said paint applicator, said paint metering device, said color changer, and related fluid connections to remove an amount of air prior to opening the paint supply valve. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the paint metering device is a servo motor controlled paint canister. 3. The system according to claim 2, wherein a cleaning solvent and compressed air are supplied to a point of the fluid connection between the paint canister and the color changer, wherein said color changer has a dump valve such that said fluid connection can be cleaned and dried in a reverse direction of the paint supply to the canister for the purpose of electrostatic isolation. 4. The system according to claim 2, wherein the solvent is used to push paint from the color changer through the fluid connection in a direction of a paint supply to a canister inlet. 5. The system according to claim 2, wherein a channel is formed between an inlet hole and an outlet hole of the paint metering device such that a fluid path is formed when a canister piston is pushed fully forward. 6. The system according to claim 2, wherein an electrical feedback from the servo motor driving a piston is used to plot a positive force or a negative force on the piston with respect to time, wherein a slope of the feedback response is used to determine when the paint hits an injector tip, thereby indicating that the system is adequately primed prior to moving to a next step in a filling sequence. 7. The system according to claim 2, wherein an electrical feedback from the servo motor driving a piston is used to measure a positive force or a negative force on the piston, wherein the force feedback is used to confirm that a vacuum system is operating correctly. 8. The system according to claim 7, wherein in the event it is determined that the vacuum system is not operating correctly, the system includes a control system adapted to automatically switch from a vacuum priming mode to a pressure priming mode, wherein paint is pushed through the system until sensed at a fluid tip, in order to remove air and prime the system from a color changer to an applicator exit nozzle. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the paint metering device is a servo motor controlled gear pump. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein the vacuum is generated by a venturi-type vacuum pump. 11. A multi-axis paint robot system comprising: a robot having an outer arm moveable within a spray booth: an at least two-axis wrist with one end attached to the outer arm; a paint applicator attached to an other end of said wrist; a paint metering device mounted on the robot and in fluid communication with the paint applicator, the paint metering device in fluid communication with a paint supply valve; and a color changer mounted on the robot and in fluid communication with the paint metering device, wherein cleaning solvent and compressed air are supplied to a location between a fluid connection of the paint metering device and the color changer, wherein said color changer has a dump valve such that said fluid connection can be cleaned and dried in a reverse direction of a paint supply to the paint metering device for the purpose of electrostatic isolation. 12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the paint metering device is a servo motor controlled paint canister. 13. The system according to claim 11, wherein a vacuum is subjected to internal passages of said paint applicator, said paint metering device, said color changer, and related fluid connections to remove an amount of air in the system prior to opening the paint supply valve. 14. The system according to claim 13, wherein the vacuum is generated by a venturi-type pump. 15. The system according to claim 11, wherein the solvent is used to push paint from the color changer through the fluid connection in a direction of a paint supply to a canister inlet. 16. The system according to claim 11, wherein a channel is formed between an inlet hole and an outlet hole of the paint metering device such that a fluid path is formed when a canister piston is pushed fully forward. 17. The system according to claim 11, wherein an electrical feedback from the servo motor driving a piston is used to plot a positive force or a negative force of the piston with respect to time, wherein a slope of the feedback response is used to determine when paint hits an injector tip, thereby indicating that the system is adequately primed prior to. moving to a next step in a filling sequence. 18. The system according to claim 11, wherein an electrical feedback from the servo motor driving a piston is used to measure a positive or negative force on the piston, wherein the force feedback is used to confirm that the vacuum system is operating correctly. 19. The system according to claim 18, wherein in the event it is determined that a vacuum system is not working adequately, a control system automatically switches from a vacuum priming mode to a pressure priming mode, wherein paint is pushed through the system until sensed at a fluid tip in order to remove air and prime the fluid path from the color changer to an applicator exit nozzle. 