The present invention relates to eukaryotic host cells having modified oligosaccharides which may be modified further by heterologous expression of a set of glycosyltransferases, sugar transporters and mannosidases to become host-strains for the production of mammalian, e.g., human therapeutic glycoproteins. The invention provides nucleic acid molecules and combinatorial libraries which can be used to successfully target and express mammalian enzymatic activities such as those involved in glycosylation to intracellular compartments in a eukaryotic host cell. The process provides an engineered host cell which can be used to express and target any desirable gene(s) involved in glycosylation. Host cells with modified oligosaccharides are created or selected. N-glycans made in the engineered host cells have a Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 core structure which may then be modified further by heterologous expression of one or more enzymes, e.g., glycosyltransferases, sugar transporters and mannosidases, to yield human-like glycoproteins. For the production of therapeutic proteins, this method may be adapted to engineer cell lines in which any desired glycosylation structure may be obtained.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A glycoprotein composition comprising a recombinant human glycoprotein wherein at least 60 % of the oligosaccharide structures on the glycoprotein consist of a GlcNAcMan.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 oligosaccharide structure. 2. A glycoprotein composition comprising a recombinant human glycoprotein wherein at least 60% of the oligosaccharide structures on the glycoprotein in consist of a GlcNAcMan.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 oligosaccharide structure, and wherein the glycoprotein is produced in a Pichia pastoris genetically engineered to lack OCH1 activity and to express (a) a chimeric mannosidase I comprising an alpha-1,2 mannosidase catalytic domain fused to a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the enzyme to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell; (b) a chimeric N-acetylglucosamine transferase I (GnT I) comprising a GnT I catalytic domain fused to a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell; and (c) a uridine diphosphate-N-acetylglucosamine (UDP-GlcNAc) transporter. 3. The glycoprotein composition of claim 2, wherein the chimeric mannosidase I comprises the Saccharomyces SEC12 cellular targeting peptide and the mouse mannosidase IA lacking the first 187 amino acids. 4. The glycoprotein composition of claim 2, wherein the chimeric GnT I comprises the Saccharomyces MNN9 cellular targeting peptide and the human GnT I lacking the first 38 amino acids. 5. The glycoprotein composition of claim 2, wherein the UDP-GlcNAc transporter is encoded by the Kluveromyces lactis MNN2-2 gene. 6. A glycoprotein composition comprising a recombinant human glycoprotein wherein at least 50% to 70% of the oligosaccharide structures on the glycoprotein consist of a Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 oligosaccharide structure. 7. A glycoprotein composition comprising a recombinant human glycoprotein wherein at least 50% to 70% of the oligosaccharide structures on the glycoprotein consist of a Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 oligosaccharide structure, and wherein the glycoprotein is produced in a Pichia pastoris genetically engineered to lack OCH1 activity and to express (a) a chimeric mannosidase I comprising an alpha-1,2 mannosidase catalytic domain fused to a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the enzyme to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell; (b) a chimeric N-acetylglucosamine transferase I (GnT I) comprising a GnT I catalytic domain fused to a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell; and (c) a uridine diphosphate-N-acetylglucosamine (UDP-GlcNAc) transporter. 8. The glycoprotein composition of claim 7, wherein the chimeric mannosidase I comprises the Saccharomyces SEC12 cellular targeting peptide and the mouse mannosidase IA lacking the first 187 amino acids. 9. The glycoprotein composition of claim 7, wherein the chimeric mannosidase I comprises the Saccharomyces VAN1 cellular targeting peptide and the C. elegans mannosidase IB lacking the first 80 amino acids. 10. The glycoprotein composition of claim 1, wherein the recombinant human glycoprotein is a therapeutic glycoprotein. 11. The glycoprotein composition of claim 1, wherein the recombinant human glycoprotein is selected from the group consisting of erythropoietin; interferon-.alpha.; interferon-.beta.; interferon-.gamma.; interferon-.omega.; granulocyte-CSF; factor VIII; factor IX;human protein C; soluble IgE receptor .alpha.-chain; IgG; IgG fragments; IgM; interleukins; urokinase; chymase; urea trypsin inhibitor; IGF-binding protein; epidermal growth factor; growth hormone-releasing factor; annexin V fusion protein; angiostatin; vascular endothelial growth factor-2; myeloid progenitor inhibitory factor-1; osteoprotegerin; .alpha.-1-antitrypsin; and, .alpha.-feto proteins. 12. The glycoprotein composition of claim 6, wherein the glycoprotein is a therapeutic glycoprotein. 13. The glycoprotein composition of claim 6, wherein the glycoprotein is selected from the group consisting of erythropoietin; interferon-.alpha.; interferon-.beta.; interferon-.gamma.; interferon-.omega.; granulocyte-CSF; factor VIII; factor IX; human protein C; soluble IgE receptor .alpha.-chain; IgG; IgG fragments; IgM; interleukins; urokinase; chymase; urea trypsin inhibitor; IGF-binding protein; epidermal growth factor; growth hormone-releasing factor; annexin V fusion protein; angiostatin; vascular endothelial growth factor-2; myeloid progenitor inhibitory factor-1; osteoprotegerin; .alpha.-1-antitrypsin; and, .alpha.-feto proteins. 14. The glycoprotein composition of claim 2, wherein the glycoprotein is a therapeutic glycoprotein. 15. The glycoprotein composition of claim 2, wherein the glycoprotein is selected from the group consisting of erythropoietin; interferon-.alpha.; interferon-.beta.; interferon-.gamma.; interferon-.omega.; granulocyte-CSF; factor VIII; factor IX; human protein C; soluble IgE receptor .alpha.-chain; IgG; IgG fragments; IgM; interleukins; urokinase; chymase; urea trypsin inhibitor; IGF-binding protein; epidermal growth factor; growth hormone-releasing factor; annexin V fusion protein; angiostatin; vascular endothelial growth factor-2; myeloid progenitor inhibitory factor-1; osteoprotegerin; .alpha.-1-antitrypsin; and, .alpha.-feto proteins. 16. The glycoprotein composition of claim 7, wherein the glycoprotein is a therapeutic glycoprotein. 17. The glycoprotein composition of claim 7, wherein the glycoprotein is selected from the group consisting of erythropoietin; interferon-.alpha.; interferon-.beta.; interferon-.gamma.; interferon-.omega.; granulocyte-CSF; factor VIII; factor IX; human protein C; soluble IgE receptor .alpha.-chain; IgG; IgG fragments; IgM; interleukins; urokinase; chymase; urea trypsin inhibitor; IGF-binding protein; epidermal growth factor; growth hormone-releasing factor; annexin V fusion protein; angiostatin; vascular endothelial growth factor-2; myeloid progenitor inhibitory factor-1; osteoprotegerin; .alpha.-1-antitrypsin; and, .alpha.-feto proteins. 