A system for process control comprises a server digital data processor and a client digital data processor that are coupled by a network, such as the Internet or an Intranet. The server digital data processor, which is additionally coupled to a control/sensing device and any associated interface equipment (collectively, referred to as "process control apparatus"), includes a command processor that transfers information between the network and the process control apparatus. The client digital data processor includes an information client (e.g., a so-called Internet web browser) capable of requesting and receiving an applet from the server digital data processor. The information client, further, defines a hardware-independent and operating system-independent virtual machine environment within the client digital data processor. The client digital data processor executes, within that virtual machine environment, an applet for configuring the client digital data processor as a "process controller" that establishes communications over the network with the command processor and that monitors and/or controls the process control apparatus via those communications.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of operating a control system of the type having a control apparatus comprising one or more control/sensing devices, the method comprising the steps of A. executing a program that configures a digital data processor as a process controller for monitoring and/or controlling the control apparatus, the program comprising any of (i) a JAVA applet, (ii) an intermediate language program, (iii) a byte code program, (iv) a downloaded program that executes in a virtual machine environment, (v) a program that executes in a web browser, B. responding to a request for a data value associated with the control apparatus by transmitting to the digital data processor that data value and one or more subsequent changes thereto. 2. A method of claim 1, comprising the generating the request for the data value with the digital data processor, when configured as a process controller. 3. A method according to claim 1, comprising executing the program so as to configure the digital data processor to report at least one of the data value and subsequent changes thereto. 4. A method according to claim 1, comprising communicating between the digital data processor and the control apparatus via a network. 5. A method according to claim 4, comprising communicating between the digital data processor and the control apparatus via a further digital data processor. 6. A method according to claim 5, comprising communicating between the digital data processor and the further digital data processor via a network. 7. A method according to claim 5, comprising communicating between the server digital data processor and the control apparatus by any of a bus and a network. 8. A method according to claim 5, comprising transmitting from the digital data processor to the further digital data processor a request for the data value. 9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the client digital data processor generates a request for the program. 10. A method according to claim 1, comprising maintaining with at least one of the further digital data processor and the control apparatus one or more objects that at least one of control and reflect a status of the control apparatus. 11. A method of operating a control system of the type having a control apparatus comprising one or more control/sensing devices, the method comprising the steps of A. executing on a client digital data processor a program that configures the client digital data processor as a process controller for monitoring and/or controlling the control apparatus, the applet comprising any of (i) a JAVA applet, (ii) an intermediate language program, (iii) a byte code program, (iv) a downloaded program that executes in a virtual machine environment, (v) a program that executes in a web browser, and B. maintaining with at least one of the control apparatus and a server digital data processor that is coupled thereto an object that stores the data value associated with the control apparatus, C. responding to a request for the object by transmitting to the client digital data processor that data value and one or more subsequent changes thereto. 12. A method of claim 11, comprising providing, with at least one of the control apparatus and the server digital data processor, services for any of (i) creating a named such object, (ii) destroying such an object, (iii) accessing information in such an object, (iv) updating information in such an object, (v) determining, from an object name, a physical address associated with such an object, and (vi) providing notification of changes in at least selected information stored in such an object. 13. A method of claim 12, comprising requesting such services with the client digital data processor, when configured as a process controller. 14. A method of claim 11, comprising providing, with at least one of the control apparatus and the server digital data processor, services for any of getting and setting a value of such object. 15. A method of claim 11, comprising communicating between the client digital data processor and the server digital data processor by a network. 16. A method of claim 11, comprising communicating between the server digital data processor and the control apparatus by any of a bus and a network. 