One embodiment of the invention includes a multilayer dry adhesive system capable of reversible joining of rigid substrates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: placing a multiplayer adhesive system between a first substrate and a second substrate, the multiplayer adhesive system comprising a first dry adhesive layer having a first curved profile, a second dry adhesive layer having a second curved profile, and shape memory polymer layer therebetween; heating the multiplayer adhesive system; pressing the substrates together with the heated multiplayer adhesive system therebetween and cooling the multiplayer adhesive system under load to attach the first substrate to the second substrate; and thereafter heating the multiplayer adhesive system so that the multiplayer adhesive system changes shape and peels away from the substrates from the outer edges of the multilayer dry adhesive system. 2. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of the first dry adhesive layer and the second dry adhesive layer has a generally convex curved profile. 3. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the shape memory polymer layer comprises: at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy; and at least one of a crosslinking agent or a catalytic curing agent; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, and the crosslinking agent is one of a multi-amine, an organic multi-carboxylic acid, or an anhydride. 4. A method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the first adhesive layer and the second adhesive layer comprises: at least one of a rigid epoxy or a flexible epoxy; and at least one of a crosslinking agent or a catalytic curing agent; wherein the rigid epoxy is an aromatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, the flexible epoxy is an aliphatic epoxy having at least two epoxide groups, and the crosslinking agent is one of a multi-amine, an organic multi-carboxylic acid, or an anhydride. 5. A method comprising: placing a multilayer adhesive system between a first substrate and a second substrate, the multilayer adhesive system comprising a first dry adhesive layer, a second dry adhesive layer, and shape memory polymer layer therebetween, wherein the shape memory polymer layer comprises a first portion adjacent to the first dry adhesive layer and a second portion adjacent to the second dry adhesive layer and a cavity therebetween, wherein an outer surface of each of the first dry adhesive layer and the second dry adhesive layer has a convex shape, and wherein the thickness of the cavity is the greatest in a center portion of the multilayer adhesive system and tapers to outer edges thereof; heating the multilayer adhesive system; pressing the substrates together with the heated multilayer adhesive system therebetween and cooling the multilayer adhesive system under load to attach the first substrate to the second substrate; and thereafter heating the multilayer adhesive system so that the multilayer adhesive system changes shape and peels away from the substrates from the outer edges of the multilayer dry adhesive system. 6. A method comprising: placing a multilayer adhesive system between a first substrate and a second substrate, the multilayer adhesive system comprising a first dry adhesive layer, a second dry adhesive layer, and shape memory polymer layer therebetween, wherein the shape memory polymer layer has a geometry thickest in a center portion of the shape memory polymer layer and tapering to the outer edges thereof; heating the multilayer adhesive system; pressing the substrates together with the heated multilayer adhesive system therebetween and cooling the multilayer adhesive system under load to attach the first substrate to the second substrate; and thereafter heating the multilayer adhesive system so that the multilayer adhesive system changes shape and peels away from the substrates from the outer edges of the multilayer dry adhesive system. 7. A method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said shape memory polymer has a glass transition temperature and said heating the multiplayer adhesive system comprises heating to a temperature above the glass transition temperature. 8. A method as set forth in claim 1, wherein said multiplayer adhesive system comprises at least two shape memory polymer layers. 