Systems, methods and devices for the remote control of a robot which incorporates interchangeable tool heads. Although applicable to many different industries, the core structure of the system includes a robot with a tool head interface for mechanically, electrically and operatively interconnecting a plurality of interchangeable tool heads to perform various work functions. The robot and tool head may include several levels of digital feedback (local, remote and wide area) depending on the application. The systems include a single umbilical cord to send power, air, and communications signals between the robot and a remote computer. Additionally, all communication (including video) is preferably sent in a digital format. Finally, a GUI running on the remote computer automatically queries and identifies all of the various devices on the network and automatically configures its user options to parallel the installed devices. Systems according to the preferred embodiments find particular application in the pipeline arts. For example, interchangeable tool heads may be designed to facilitate inspection, debris clearing, cleaning, relining, lateral cutting after relining, mapping, and various other common pipeline-related tasks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing rehabilitation on a pipeline, the pipeline including a main pipe and at least one feature of interest in the main pipe, the method comprising: identifying, using a robotic device, the at least one feature of interest in the main pipe; implanting, using the robotic device, at least one marking device into a wall of the main pipe proximate the at least one feature of interest; and sensing, using the robotic device, the at least one marking device from within the main pipe, wherein the at least one feature of interest comprises at least one of the following: a crack in the main pipe; a joint of the main pipe; and a lateral pipe connected to the main pipe. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the at least one feature of interest comprises using the robotic device to perform a video survey of the pipeline. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the at least one feature of interest comprises using the robotic device to perform range mapping of the pipeline. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein implanting the at least one marking device into the wall of the main pipe comprises implanting a plurality of marking devices into the wall of the main pipe proximate the at least one feature of interest. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein implanting the at least one marking device into the wall of the main pipe comprises using the robotic device to drill into the wall of the main pipe. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein sensing the at least one marking device comprises electromagnetically sensing the at least one marking device. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising using the robotic device to clear debris in the main pipe. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising using the robotic device to clean a surface of the main pipe. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising using the robotic device to trim a lateral pipe of the pipeline. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising using the robotic device to place a sealing material at a joint of the main pipe. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising using the robotic device to register a position of the implanted at least one marking device relative to a coordinate reference frame. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising using the robotic device to cut a lining positioned in the main pipe, wherein the lining obscures a line of sight between the robotic device and the at least one marking device. 13. A mobile robot, comprising: a chassis; and a universal interface positioned within the chassis, wherein the universal interface is: movable relative to the chassis; and configured for removable connection to a plurality of different attachments, the plurality of different attachments comprising at least two of the following pluralities: a plurality of different electrically-powered attachments; a plurality of different pneumatically-powered attachments; and a plurality of different hydraulically-powered attachments. 14. The mobile robot of claim 13, wherein the universal interface has at least two degrees of freedom relative to the to the chassis. 15. The mobile robot of claim 13, further comprising an attachment removably connected to the universal interface, wherein the attachment is from one of the plurality of different attachments. 16. The mobile robot of claim 15, wherein the attachment from the plurality of different attachments has at least one degree of freedom relative to the universal interface. 17. The mobile robot of claim 15, wherein the attachment from the plurality of different attachments comprises one of the following: a tool; and a sensor. 18. A system, comprising: a mobile robot, wherein the mobile robot comprises: a chassis; a universal interface positioned within the chassis, wherein the universal interface is: movable relative to the chassis; and configured for removable connection to a plurality of different attachments, the plurality of different attachments comprising at least two of the following pluralities: a plurality of different electrically-powered attachments; a plurality of different pneumatically-powered attachments; and a plurality of different hydraulically-powered attachments; and a controller communicably connected with the universal interface, wherein the controller is configured to: automatically identify each attachment when the attachment is connected to the universal interface; and automatically control the functionality of the mobile robot based on the identified attachment; and a computing device communicably connected to the controller. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the mobile robot further comprises at least one sensing device communicably connected to the controller. 20. The system of claim 18, further comprising an attachment removably connected to the universal interface, wherein the attachment is from one of the plurality of different attachments. 