An electromagnetic braking system and method is provided for selectively braking a motor using an electromagnetic brake having an electromagnet, a permanent magnet, a rotor assembly, and a brake pad. The brake assembly applies when the electromagnet is de-energized and releases when the electromagnet is energized. When applied the permanent magnet moves the brake pad into frictional engagement with a housing, and when released the electromagnet cancels the flux of the permanent magnet to allow a leaf spring to move the brake pad away from the housing. A controller has a DC/DC converter for converting a main bus voltage to a lower braking voltage based on certain parameters. The converter utilizes pulse-width modulation (PWM) to regulate the braking voltage. A calibrated gap is defined between the brake pad and permanent magnet when the brake assembly is released, and may be dynamically modified via the controller.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A motor assembly comprising: a rotor; a stator having windings that are selectively energized by a first voltage from a high voltage bus to cause rotation of the rotor assembly; a brake assembly having an electromagnet, a permanent magnet, and a moveable brake pad, wherein the brake assembly is adapted for releasing the rotor when the electromagnet is energized using a second voltage, and for braking the rotor when the electromagnet is de-energized; and a controller having a DC-DC converter for converting the first voltage to the second voltage, the second voltage being lower than the first voltage; wherein the controller includes an algorithm adapted for optimizing the second voltage as a function of a set of brake control parameters. 2. The motor assembly of claim 1, wherein the brake control parameters include at least one of: brake current, brake voltage, brake temperature, motor speed, and motor torque. 3. The motor assembly of claim 1, wherein the controller applies pulse-width modulation (PWM) to vary the duty cycle of the first voltage, and to thereby generate the second voltage. 4. The motor assembly of claim 1, wherein the brake pad defines a gap of a calibrated size in conjunction with the permanent magnet when the brake assembly is in a released state, and wherein the brake control parameters include the calibrated size of the gap. 5. The motor assembly of claim 4, further comprising: an actuator in communication with the controller and adapted for selectively modifying the calibrated size of the gap using the brake control parameters. 6. The motor assembly of claim 1, further comprising a set of springs, wherein the springs are positioned between and directly connected to the brake pad and to a surface of the rotor. 7. The motor assembly of claim 1, further comprising a first sensor configured for generating an output signal that varies in response to the temperature of the brake assembly, and a second sensor for determining the brake current, wherein the brake control parameters includes the respective output signals of the first and second sensors. 8. An electromagnetic brake assembly for use with a motor assembly having a rotor and a stator operable for causing rotation of the rotor when the stator is energized, the electromagnetic brake assembly comprising: an electromagnet; a permanent magnet; a moveable brake pad, wherein the electromagnetic brake assembly is adapted for releasing the brake pad from frictional engagement with the rotor when the electromagnet is energized using a second voltage, and for braking the rotor via friction engagement with the rotor when the electromagnet is de-energized; and a controller having a DC-DC converter operable for converting the first voltage to the second voltage at a voltage level lower than that of the first voltage; wherein the controller includes an algorithm adapted for optimizing the second voltage as a function of a set of brake control parameters. 9. The brake assembly of claim 8, wherein the controller applies pulse-width modulation (PWM) to vary a duty cycle of the first voltage, thereby generating the second voltage. 10. The brake assembly of claim 8, wherein the brake pad defines a gap of a calibrated size in conjunction with the permanent magnet, and wherein the brake control parameters includes the calibrated size. 11. The brake assembly of claim 10, wherein the brake control parameters further include at least one of: brake current, brake voltage, brake temperature, motor speed, and motor torque. 12. The brake assembly of claim 11, further comprising: an actuator in communication with the controller and adapted for selectively changing the calibrated size of the gap based on the brake control parameters. 13. The brake assembly of claim 8, wherein the brake pad is formed of a unitary piece of magnetic material. 14. The brake assembly of claim 13, further comprising a housing containing the electromagnet and the permanent magnet, wherein the brake pad frictionally engages the housing when the electromagnet is de-energized. 15. A method for optimizing the efficiency of an electromagnetic brake assembly having a moveable brake pad adapted for selectively braking a rotor of a motor assembly, and having a housing containing an electromagnet and a permanent magnet, the method comprising: detecting a set of brake control parameters; using a DC-DC converter to convert a first voltage from a high-voltage bus to a second voltage that is lower than the first voltage; applying the second voltage to the electromagnet to substantially cancel a magnetic flux of the permanent magnet, and to thereby allow the brake pad to move out of frictional engagement with the housing to release the rotor; discontinuing the second voltage to thereby allow the permanent magnet to move the brake pad into frictional engagement with the housing to brake the rotor; and automatically varying the second voltage as a function of a set of brake control parameters to thereby determine an optimal value of the second voltage. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the permanent magnet and the brake pad define a gap of a calibrated size therebetween, the method further comprising: using an actuator to selectively adjust the size of the size of the gap. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein using an actuator to selectively adjust the size of the gap includes activating an actuator to thereby move a component of the motor assembly in an axial direction with respect to an axis of rotation of the rotor. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein continuously optimizing the second voltage includes varying a duty cycle using pulse width modulation (PWM), and applying the duty cycle to the first voltage to thereby generate the second voltage. 