A robotic arm compensator includes a housing, a lock mandrel, a first lock slide, a second lock slide and an instrument attached to the lock mandrel. A method of using the robotic arm compensator includes moving the first and second lock slides in a direction toward each other to engage the lock mandrel in a first state and moving the lock slides apart from each other to disengage the lock mandrel in a second state for providing exceptional radial movement, large lateral travel relative to overall size, zero force to utilize the compensation travel and no axial compressibility.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A robotic arm compensator comprising: a housing having an instrument side and an adapter side; a lock mandrel disposed between the instrument side and the adaptor side, the lock mandrel having a projection defining at least two angled surfaces; a first lock slide being configured to engage a first surface of the angled surfaces in a first state and to disengage the first surface in a second state; a second lock slide opposing the first lock slide and being configured to engage a second surface of the angled surfaces in the first state and to disengage the second surface in the second state; and an instrument attached to the lock mandrel proximate the instrument side, wherein, in or approaching the second state, the lock mandrel is configured to float between the first and second lock slides such that the instrument may move laterally and radially, the lock mandrel being disposed in the housing to limit axial movement of the lock mandrel. 2. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, wherein the projection includes a third surface, the projection being triangular shaped in cross-section. 3. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, wherein the first lock slide defines at least two receiving surfaces disposed at an angle to each other. 4. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, wherein the second lock slide defines a horizontal surface for engaging the second surface of the projection. 5. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, wherein the projection includes a third surface, the projection being triangular shaped in cross-section, the first lock slide defining at least two receiving surfaces disposed at an angle to each other for engaging the first and third surfaces of the projection in the first state, the second lock slide defining a horizontal surface for engaging the second surface of the projection in the first state. 6. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, wherein the first lock slide defines a first gear rack and the second lock slide defines a second gear rack and further comprising a pinion in communication with the first and second gear racks, the pinion being configured to rotate, the first and second lock slides being configured to travel in opposing directions in the first and second states. 7. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, wherein the instrument is a gripper tool. 8. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, wherein the instrument is a pneumatic gripper. 9. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, wherein the instrument is configured to move laterally about 1/4 inch. 10. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, further comprising an axis and wherein the instrument is configured to move radially about the axis up to about 25 degrees. 11. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, further comprising an absence of axial compression in the second state. 12. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, further comprising a plurality of gibs, the first and second lock slides being configured to travel in the gibs between the first state and the second state. 13. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, further comprising a propulsion unit in communication with one of the first and second lock slides. 14. The robotic arm compensator as in 13, wherein the propulsion unit is a pneumatic air cylinder. 15. The robotic arm compensator as in 1, further comprising at least one shock absorber disposed proximate one of the first and second lock slides, the shock absorber being configured to arrest movement of one of the first and second lock slides. 