A method and device for sorting postal items according to formats, wherein postal items having at least two formats are fed by first conveyor to a sorting location; postal items of a first format are removed from the first conveyor in the area of the sorting location at a number of sorting stations arranged one behind the other in a direction of conveyance of the first conveyor, and are fed to a second conveyor, which, in the area of the sorting location, extends laterally next to the first conveyor, and; the postal items with other formats remain on the first conveyor.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for sorting mailpieces according to formats, comprising: feeding mailpieces having at least two formats by a first conveyor to a sorting line, a first format being a large format in which dimensions of the mailpieces exceed pre-specified values, accumulating the mailpieces in an area of the sorting line in front of an end section of the first conveyor located in a downstream end area of the sorting line, removing mailpieces having the first format from the first conveyor in the area of the sorting line at several sorting stations arranged one after the other in a conveying direction of the first conveyor, and feeding mailpieces to a second conveyor that runs in the area of the sorting line laterally next to the first conveyor, and feeding the mailpieces having other formats that remain on the first conveyor to a third conveyor that is arranged below the second conveyor. 2. The method according to claim 1, comprising removing a mailpiece having the first format that was not removed from the first conveyor at a first sorting station from the first conveyor at a subsequent sorting station and feeding the mailpiece to the second conveyor. 3. The method according to claim 1, comprising consecutively emptying containers containing mailpieces of respectively varying sizes on the first conveyor, thereby arranging the mailpieces in spaced piles on the first conveyor as a result. 4. The method according to claim 1, comprising stopping the first conveyor once a pile of the mailpieces has reached the sorting line. 5. The method according to claim 1, comprising at the sorting line, pushing the mailpieces having the other formats off of the first conveyor onto the third conveyor once all of the mailpieces having the first format have been removed from the first conveyor. 6. The method according to claim 1, comprising removing the mailpieces having the first format from the first conveyor and feeding mailpieces to the second conveyor by means of a robot, at least some of the sorting stations. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first format is the format that occurs with the lowest frequency in a mail volume. 8. A device for sorting mailpieces according to formats, comprising: a first conveyor for feeding mailpieces of all formats to a sorting line, the first conveyor comprising an end section in a downstream end area in front of which the mailpieces are accumulated, whereby the sorting line comprises a plurality of sorting stations arranged one after the other on a first side of the first conveyor along the first conveyor in a conveying direction thereof, a second conveyor for receiving mailpieces having a first format, said second conveyor being arranged laterally on a second side of the first conveyor, opposite from the first side and running in the area of the sorting line laterally next to the first conveyor, and a third conveyor, for receiving mailpieces having formats other than the first format, that is arranged below the second conveyor. 9. The device according to claim 8, comprising a mechanism operated from at least one sorting station in order to stop the conveyor. 10. The device according to claim 8, comprising in the area of the sorting line, the third conveyor running parallel to the first conveyor. 11. The device according to claim 8, wherein the second conveyor is offset upwardly in terms of height relative to the first conveyor. 12. The device according to claim 8, wherein the third conveyor is offset downwardly in terms of height relative to the first conveyor. 13. The device according to claim 8, comprising a robot installed in at least one of the sorting stations in order to remove the mailpieces having the first format from the first conveyor and to feed subsequent mailpieces to the second conveyor. 14. The device according to claim 8, wherein the mailpieces having the first format are large-format mailpieces whose dimensions exceed a pre-specified value. 15. The device according to claim 8, wherein the second conveyor is a conveyor for receiving large-format mailpieces. 16. The device according to claim 8, wherein in the area of the sorting line, the second conveyor runs parallel to the first conveyor. 17. The device according to claim 8, wherein in the area of the sorting line, the second conveyor runs along an ascending course relative to the first conveyor. 18. The device according to claim 8, wherein the second conveyor is arranged laterally on one side of the first conveyor. 