A robot gripper block is provided that facilitates the simultaneous attached of robot deployed tools to a plurality of distinct robot platforms having robot grippers with opposing moveable fingers. The block includes a plurality of parallel cylindrical sockets passing through the block to accept the complementary cylindrical bars of the robot deployed tools. A set pin is inserted through the block and tools to secure the tools in the block. Running along the faces of the block and arranged in pairs are channels sixed and shaped to complement the fingers of the robot grippers. Each set of channels is arranged for a given robot gripper.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot gripper system, comprising: a robot comprising a distinct two-finger robot gripper, wherein said distinct two-finger robot gripper comprises two robot gripper fingers; and a gripper adaptor comprising a unitary block comprising a plurality of identical sockets passing through the unitary block, wherein each socket comprises a size and a shape corresponding to a standardized bar on robot deployed tools, wherein said unitary block comprises a plurality of pairs of channels where each channel of the plurality of pairs of channels runs along a face of the unitary block, wherein each pair of channels of the plurality of pairs of channels is associated with said distinct two-finger robot gripper such that channels of said each pair of channels are disposed on opposing faces of the unitary block to accommodate opposing said two robot gripper fingers of the associated two-finger robot gripper, and wherein the channels in a given pair comprise a complementary shape to each of said opposing two robot gripper finger of the associated two-finger robot gripper. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of identical sockets comprise cylindrical shafts and the corresponding standardized bar comprises a complementary cylindrical bar. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of identical sockets are parallel. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said each socket passes completely through the block and comprises two openings on opposing faces of the unitary block to accept the standardized bar on robot deployed tools. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of identical sockets further comprises three sockets. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of holes in the plurality of sockets being aligned for accommodating passage of a single set pin through all of theplurality of sockets for engaging each said standardized bars on the robot deployed tools and for securing the robot deployed tools in the plurality of sockets. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of pairs of channels comprises two pairs of channels, and wherein each one of four channels constitutes the two pairs of channels, which occupy a separate face of the block. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the channels in a first pair of channels comprise a rectangular cross section and the channels in a second pair of channels comprise a width that decreases from one end of the channel to another end. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said each channel runs an entire length of the face of the block on which it is located. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein each channel comprises a flared opening to facilitate acceptance of one of the two robot gripper fingers. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the block comprises polyoxymethlynene. 12. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of holes in a plurality of cylindrical shafts being aligned to for accommodating passage of a single set pin through all of the plurality of cylindrical shafts for engaging the standardized bare on the robot deployed tools and for securing the robot deployed tools in the cylindrical shafts. 