An input device for a robotic surgical instrument includes an operator input on a handle that is rotatably supported by a supporting link structure. A primary winding of a rotary transformer is fixed to the supporting link structure and connected to an electric power source. A secondary winding is fixed to the handle. An axial passage extends through the primary and secondary windings. An optical data transmitter is connected to the operator input to transmit data from the operator input through the axial passage. The secondary transformer winding provides power to the optical data transmitter without physical contact. An optical data receiver fixed to the supporting link structure receives data from the optical data transmitter transmitted through the axial passage in the rotary transformer without physical contact. The transmission of power and data without physical contact allows the handle to rotate continuously.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An operator input device comprising: a supporting link structure; a handle that is rotatably supported by the supporting link structure; an operator input supported by the handle; a rotary transformer having a primary winding fixed to the supporting link structure and connected to an electric power source, a secondary winding fixed to the handle, and an axial passage through the primary and secondary windings; an optical data transmitter connected to the operator input and the secondary winding, the optical data transmitter fixed to the handle and aligned to transmit data from the operator input through the axial passage in the rotary transformer; and an optical data receiver fixed to the supporting link structure and aligned to receive data from the optical data transmitter. 2. The input device of claim 1, further comprising a signal generator fixed to the handle and connected to the secondary transformer winding and to the optical data transmitter, the signal generator receiving power from the secondary transformer winding and generating data to be transmitted by the optical data transmitter in response to the operator input. 3. The input device of claim 2, wherein the signal generator further generates a voltage signal multiplexed with the operator input data to be transmitted by the optical data transmitter in response to the voltage provided by the secondary transformer winding. 4. The input device of claim 3, wherein the power source is connected to the optical data receiver, the power source being turned on and off in response to the voltage signal received by the optical data receiver. 5. The input device of claim 1, further comprising: a bearing supported by the supporting link structure; a tube rotatably supported by the bearing, a proximal end of the tube connected to the handle and a distal end of the tube connected to the rotary pot core half; and a wire that electrically connects the operator input to the optical data transmitter, the wire passing through the tube from the proximal end to the distal end. 6. The input device of claim 1, wherein the rotary transformer further includes a pot core, the primary winding being fixed in a first half of the pot core that is fixed to the supporting link structure, the secondary winding being fixed in a second half of the pot core that is fixed to the handle, and the pot core providing the axial passage through the primary and secondary windings. 7. A method of receiving an operator input comprising: receiving the operator input from an input device on a handle that is rotatably supported by a link structure; coupling an electrical power source between a primary coil fixedly supported by the link structure and connected to an electric power source, and a secondary coil fixedly supported by the handle; and transmitting data from the operator input with an optical data transmitter fixed on the axis of rotation of the handle and connected to the secondary coil, the optical transmission directed through an axial passage through the primary and secondary windings, to a coaxial optical data receiver fixed on the link structure. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising generating data to be transmitted by the optical data transmitter from the operator input with a signal generator connected to the input device and to the secondary transformer winding to receive power. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising generating a voltage signal in response to the voltage provided by the secondary transformer winding and multiplexing the voltage signal with the operator input data to be transmitted by the optical data transmitter. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising turning the electrical power source on and off in response to the voltage signal received by the optical data receiver. 11. A device for receiving an operator input comprising: means for receiving the operator input mounted on a handle that is rotatably supported by a link structure; means for coupling an electrical power source between a primary coil fixedly supported by the link structure and connected to an electric power source, and a secondary coil fixedly supported by the handle; and means for optically transmitting operator input data fixed on the axis of rotation of the handle and connected to the secondary coil, the optical transmission directed through an axial passage through the primary and secondary windings, to a coaxial means for receiving optical data fixed on the link structure. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising means for generating data to be optically transmitted from the operator input connected to the input device and to the secondary transformer winding to receive power. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising means for generating a voltage signal in response to the voltage provided by the secondary transformer winding and means for multiplexing the voltage signal with the operator input data to be transmitted by the means for optically transmitting operator input data. 14. The method of claim 12, further comprising means for turning the electrical power source on and off in response to the voltage signal received by the means for receiving optical data. 15. An input device comprising: a supporting link structure that includes a stationary pot core half fixed to the supporting link structure and holding a primary transformer winding connected to an electric power source, and an optical data receiver fixed to the supporting link structure adjacent the stationary pot core half; and a handle that is rotatably supported by the supporting link structure that includes an operator input supported by the handle, a rotary pot core half fixed to the handle facing the stationary pot core half and holding a secondary transformer winding, and an optical data transmitter fixed to the handle on its axis of rotation, the optical data transmitter connected to the secondary transformer winding to receive power and to the operator input to transmit data from the operator input through axial passages in the rotary and stationary pot core halves to the optical data receiver. 16. The input device of claim 14, further comprising a signal generator fixed to the handle and connected to the secondary transformer winding and to the optical data transmitter, the signal generator receiving power from the secondary transformer winding and generating data to be transmitted by the optical data transmitter in response to the operator input. 17. The input device of claim 15, wherein the signal generator further generates a voltage signal multiplexed with the operator input data to be transmitted by the optical data transmitter in response to the voltage provided by the secondary transformer winding. 18. The input device of claim 16, wherein the electric power source is connected to the optical data receiver, the electric power source being turned on and off in response to the voltage signal received by the optical data receiver. 19. The input device of claim 14, further comprising: a bearing supported by the supporting link structure; a tube rotatably supported by the bearing, a proximal end of the tube connected to the handle and a distal end of the tube connected to the rotary pot core half; and a wire that electrically connects the operator input to the optical data transmitter, the wire passing through the tube from the proximal end to the distal end. 