An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations, or modules, in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in reaction receptacles. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a specimen sample, incubating the sample at prescribed temperatures for prescribed periods, performing an analyte isolation procedure, and ascertaining the presence of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the reaction receptacles from one station to the next. The analyzer further includes devices for carrying a plurality of specimen tubes and disposable pipette tips in a machine-accessible manner, a device for agitating containers of target capture reagents comprising suspensions of solid support material and for presenting the containers for machine access thereto, and a device for holding containers of reagents in a temperature controlled environment and presenting the containers for machine access thereto. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte. The process is performed by automatically moving each of a plurality of reaction receptacles containing a solid support material and a fluid sample between stations for incubating the contents of the reaction receptacle and for separating the target analyte bound to the solid support from the fluid sample. An amplification reagent is added to the separated analyte after the analyte separation step and before a final incubation step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for removing a contamination limiting element from a distal end of a resilient fluid transfer tube, the fluid transfer tube comprising a conduit having an outer transverse dimension, and the contamination limiting element comprising a conduit having an inner transverse dimension and an outer transverse dimension, wherein the outer transverse dimension of at least a portion of the contamination limiting element is larger than the outer transverse dimension of the distal end of the fluid transfer tube, and wherein the distal end of the fluid transfer tube is adapted to be inserted into the contamination limiting element to removably secure the contamination limiting element to the distal end of the fluid transfer tube, the apparatus comprising: a stripper plate having a stripper hole formed therethrough, the stripper hole comprising: a first portion having a transverse dimension that is at least as large as the outer transverse dimension of the distal end of the fluid transfer tube but that is smaller than the outer transverse dimension of at least part of the contamination limiting element; a second portion having a transverse dimension that is at least as large as the outer transverse dimension of the largest portion of the contamination limiting element; and a beveled surface surrounding at least a portion of the stripper hole and configured so that as the fluid transfer tube and contamination limiting element are moved into the stripper hole in a first, generally axial direction with respect to the fluid transfer tube, the beveled surface urges the fluid transfer tube and contamination limiting element into the second portion so that the contamination limiting element can pass through the second portion of the stripper hole, and wherein the stripper hole is configured so that, after the contamination limiting element has passed through the stripper hole, resilience of the fluid transfer tube causes the distal end of the fluid transfer tube to move into the first portion of the stripper hole so that when the fluid transfer tube is moved in an opposite axial direction, the contamination limiting element is blocked from passing through the first portion of the stripper hole and a peripheral edge of the first portion contacts the contamination limiting element and strips the contamination limiting element off the distal end of the fluid transfer tube. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the distal end of the fluid transfer tube comprises a generally cylindrical portion, and the outer transverse dimension comprises an outside diameter of the generally cylindrical portion. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the contamination limiting element comprises a generally cylindrical portion, the inner transverse dimension comprises an inside diameter of the generally cylindrical portion, and the outer transverse dimension comprises an outside diameter of the generally cylindrical portion. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a waste container constructed and arranged receive the contamination limiting element removed from the fluid transfer tube. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a chute constructed and arranged to direct the contamination limiting element removed from the fluid transfer tube into the waste container. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a fluid transfer tube moving apparatus constructed and arranged to move the fluid transfer tube in the first axial direction into the stripper hole and then the opposite axial direction out of the stripper hole. 7. An apparatus for removing a contamination limiting element from a distal end of each of a plurality of resilient fluid transfer tubes, each fluid transfer tube comprising a conduit having an outer transverse dimension, and each contamination limiting element comprising a conduit having an inner transverse dimension and an outer transverse dimension, wherein the outer transverse dimension of at least a portion of each contamination limiting element is larger than the outer transverse dimension of the distal end of an associated fluid transfer tube, and wherein the distal end of each associated fluid transfer tube is adapted to be inserted into one of the contamination limiting elements to removably secure the contamination limiting element to the distal end of the associated fluid transfer tube, the apparatus comprising: a stripper plate having a plurality of stripper holes formed therethrough, each stripper hole being associated with one of the fluid transfer tubes and comprising: a first portion having a transverse dimension that is at least as large as the outer transverse dimension of the distal end of the associated fluid transfer tube but that is smaller than the outer transverse dimension of at least part of the contamination limiting element secured to the associated fluid transfer tube; a second portion having a transverse dimension that is at least as large as the outer transverse dimension of the largest portion of the contamination limiting element secured to the associated fluid transfer tube; and a beveled surface surrounding at least a portion of each stripper hole and configured so that as the associated fluid transfer tube and contamination limiting element are moved into the stripper hole in a first, generally axial direction with respect to the fluid transfer tube, the beveled surface urges the associated fluid transfer tube and contamination limiting element into the second portion so that the contamination limiting element can pass through the second portion of the stripper hole, and wherein the stripper hole is configured so that, after the contamination limiting element has passed through the stripper hole, resilience of the associated fluid transfer tube causes the distal end of the associated fluid transfer tube to move into the first portion of the stripper hole so that when the associated fluid transfer tube is moved in an opposite axial direction out of the stripper hole, the contamination limiting element is blocked from passing through the first portion of the stripper hole and a peripheral edge of the first portion contacts the contamination limiting element and strips the contamination limiting element off the distal end of the associated fluid transfer tube. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the distal end of each fluid transfer tube comprises a generally cylindrical portion, and the outer transverse dimension comprises an outside diameter of the generally cylindrical portion. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein each contamination limiting element comprises a generally cylindrical portion, the inner transverse dimension comprises an inside diameter of the generally cylindrical portion, and the outer transverse dimension comprises an outside diameter of the generally cylindrical portion. 10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein one or more, but less than all, of the stripper holes are located in one position and one or more, but less than all, of the stripper holes are located in a different position, so that when the fluid transfer tubes are moved in the opposite axial direction, not all contamination limiting elements secured to the associated fluid transfer tubes contact the peripheral edge of the first portion of the associated stripper hole at the same time. 11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the fluid transfer tubes are arranged in a substantially parallel configuration, and the stripper holes are arranged in a side-by-side configuration. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the stripper holes are arranged in a row. 13. An instrument comprising: the device of claim 7; and a fluid transfer tube moving apparatus constructed and arranged to move the plurality of fluid transfer tubes in unison in the first axial direction into the associated stripper holes and then the opposite axial direction out of the associated stripper holes. 