A robotic bending apparatus for bending archwires and other types of elongate, bendable medical devices into a desired configuration includes a first gripping tool and a moveable gripping tool. The first gripping tool can be either fixed with respect to a base or table for the robot or positioned at the end of robot am. The moveable gripping tool is mounted to the end of a moveable robot arm having a proximal portion also mounted to the base. The robot preferably comprises a six axis bending robot, in which the distal end of the moveable arm can move relative to the fixed gripping tool about three translational axes and three rotational axes. The gripping tools preferably incorporate force sensors which are used to determine overbends needed to get the desired final shape of the archwire. The robot may also include a resistive heating system in which current flows through the wire while the wire is held in a bent condition to heat the wire and thereby retain the bent shape of the wire. A magazine for holding a plurality of straight archwires needing to be bent and a conveyor system for receiving the wires after the bending process is complete are also described. The robot bending system is able to form archwires with any required second and third order bends quickly and with high precision. As such, it is highly suitable for use in a precision appliance-manufacturing center manufacturing a large number of archwires (or other medical devices or appliances) for a distributed base of clinics.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for forming a bend between two straight wire sections of an orthodontic archwire having a first straight wire section, a second straight wire section and a bend between the first and second straight wire sections, comprising: heat treating the second straight wire section of the orthodontic archwire; and after heat treating the second straight wire section of the orthodontic archwire, forming a complex bend in the orthodontic archwire between the first straight wire section and the heat treated second straight wire section by gripping the first straight wire section with a first gripper and the heat treated second straight wire section with a second gripper; wherein said second gripper is mounted on a movable arm of a wire bending robot under the control of a computer; wherein said complex bend comprises a combination of a bend and a twist. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising forming another bend in the orthodontic archwire between the second straight wire section and another straight wire section by gripping the orthodontic archwire in at least the second straight wire section. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein heat treating the second straight wire section is performed using a computer controlled robot gripper. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first straight wire section and the second straight wire section are consecutive straight wire sections. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first straight wire section corresponds to position of a slot in a first virtual bracket and the second straight wire section corresponds to position of a slot in a second virtual bracket. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the bend is part of a patient treatment plan. 