Disclosed is a method for dislodging a mold from a casting formed within the mold. The mold may be removed from the casting by scoring the mold and applying a force sufficient to cause the mold to fracture and break into pieces. Additionally, the mold may be fractured by either explosive charges placed in the mold pack or by high energy pulsations directed at the mold. Once the mold is fractured and broken into various pieces it may then be dislodged from the casting.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of dislodging a mold from a casting formed therein, comprising: moving the mold along a processing path with the casting therein; directing a recurring or intermittent pulsed wave at an exterior wall of the mold, the pulsed wave comprising at least one of a compressed air pulse, a fuel fired gas and air mix, or a mechanically generated gaseous pulse, the pulsed wave generated by a wave source; orienting the mold in a first known, indexed position relative to the wave source; orienting the mold in a second known, indexed position relative to the wave source by means of a transfer mechanism, applying mechanical force directly to the mold by means of the transfer mechanism to assist in separating sand from the casting; and dislodging the mold from the casting. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein dislodging the mold comprises heating the casting to cause expansion of the casting within the mold. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein heating the casting comprises directing energy through the mold at the casting with an energy source selected from the group consisting of radiant energy, inductive energy and combinations thereof. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the energy source is selected from the group consisting of electromagnetic energy, lasers, radio waves, microwaves, and combinations thereof. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the mold is formed from sand and a degradable binder, and dislodging the mold from the casting includes combusting the binder of the mold as the mold is heated under elevated pressures in an enriched oxygen atmosphere to facilitate breakdown of the mold. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the mold is dislodged from the casting prior to heat treating the casting. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein dislodging the mold from the casting comprises removing at least a portion of a core from the casting. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the pulsed wave is directed at the exterior walls of the mold when the casting is partially solidified. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the orienting the mold comprises a locator pin or an indexing saddle. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the compressed air pulse has a pressure in a range of about 5 psi to about 200 psi; the fuel fired gas and air mix pulse has a pressure in a range of about 0.5 psi to about 5000 psi; and the mechanically generated gaseous pulse has a pressure in a range of about 0.1 psi to about 100 psi. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the pulsed wave comprises at least two pulsations. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the transfer mechanism is at least one of a robotic arm or an overhead hoist conveyor. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing a second recurring or intermittent pulsed wave at a second exterior wall of the mold, the second pulsed wave comprising at least one of a compressed air pulse, a fuel fired gas and air mix, or a mechanically generated gaseous pulse, the second pulsed wave generated by the wave source. 14. A method of removing a mold from a casting formed therein, comprising: orienting the mold in a first known, indexed position; directing a recurring or intermittent pulsed wave at an exterior wall of the mold when the casting is partially solidified, the pulsed wave comprising at least one of a compressed air pulse, a fuel fired gas and air mix, or a mechanically generated gaseous pulse, the pulsed wave generated by a wave source; orienting the mold in a second known, indexed position relative to the wave source by means of a transfer mechanism; applying mechanical force directly to the mold by means of the transfer mechanism to assist in separating sand from the casting; and dislodging at least a portion of the mold from the casting. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the pulsed wave further comprises at least one stream selected from pressurized fluids, electromagnetic energy, particles and combinations thereof. 16. The method of claim 14, further comprising scoring the mold to weaken the mold. 17. The method of claim 14, further comprising heating the casting to cause thermal expansion of the casting. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein dislodging at least a portion of the mold includes removing at least a portion of a core from the casting. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein the compressed air pulse has a pressure in a range of about 5 psi to about 200 psi; the fuel fired gas and air mix pulse has a pressure in a range of about 0.5 psi to about 5000 psi; and the mechanically generated gaseous pulse has a pressure in a range of about 0.1 psi to about 100 psi. 20. The method of claim 14, wherein the pulsed wave comprises at least two pulsations. 21. The method of claim 14, wherein the transfer mechanism is at least one of a robotic arm or an overhead hoist conveyor. 22. The method of claim 14, further comprising directing a second recurring or intermittent pulsed wave at a second exterior wall of the mold when the casting is partially solidified, the second pulsed wave comprising at least one of a compressed air pulse, a fuel fired gas and air mix, or a mechanically generated gaseous pulse, the second pulsed wave generated by the wave source. 