A fluid control or actuation system providing selective recruiting of actuators antagonistic to one another to provide variable output power, such as that used to drive a load. The actuators are intended to comprise different sizes, and to be operable with one or more pressure control valves capable of providing displacement of a non-recruited actuator without requiring active input to cause such displacement. Being able to selectively recruit different sized actuators to drive the load, and being able to displace non-recruited without active input, effectively incorporates a gearing function into the fluid control system.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A fluid control system adapted to optimize power output for a given operating condition, comprising: a load; a first pair of parallel actuators operating antagonistic to one another, and operable with said load; a second pair of parallel actuators operating antagonistic to one another, and operable with said load, said second pair of parallel actuators comprising a different size than said first pair of parallel actuators; at least one pressure control valve operable with each pair of said first and second pairs of parallel actuators and a pressurized fluid source, wherein said at least one pressure control valve provides a continuously variable pressure to said parallel actuators that facilitates a continuous range of output forces; means for operably coupling said first and second pairs of actuators to said load; and a control algorithm operable to recruit from said first and second pairs of parallel actuators to achieve variable power output, and to separately recruit and actuate either of said first and second pairs of parallel actuators, as well as a combination of said first and second pairs of parallel actuators. 2. The fluid control system of claim 1, wherein one or more pressure control valves operable with a non-recruited pair of parallel actuators are caused to enter a valving state of inactive passivity that permits said non-recruited pair of parallel actuators to displace, without active input, simultaneously with a recruited pair of parallel actuators being actuated by active input. 3. The fluid control system of claim 1, wherein said means for operably coupling said first and second pairs of actuators to said load comprises a tendon drive system. 4. The fluid control system of claim 3, wherein said tendon drive system comprises: a first tendon and first pulley operable with said first pair of parallel actuators; and a second tendon and second pulley operable with said second pair of parallel actuators, said first and second pulleys being operably coupled to said load. 5. The fluid control system of claim 4, wherein said first and second pulleys comprise a different size to facilitate a mechanical advantage. 6. The fluid control system of claim 1, wherein said means for operably coupling said first and second pairs of actuators to said load comprises a mechanical linkage system. 7. The fluid control system of claim 1, wherein said control algorithm is adapted to optimize fluid conservation for a given output power, and within said given operating condition. 8. The fluid control system of claim 1, wherein said pressure control valve comprises: a valve body; a return spool freely supported within said valve body; a pressure spool, independent of said return spool, and freely supported within said valve body, each of said return and pressure spools being movable within said valve body in accordance with a pressure differential present across said return and pressure spools, respectively; and an intrinsic feedback system operating to exert a feedback force on said return and pressure spools in response to said pressure differential in an attempt to equalize said pressure differential. 9. The fluid control system of claim 1, wherein said pressure control valve comprises: a valve body having an asymmetric configuration, such that a return valving component of said valve body comprises a greater size than a pressure valving component of said valve body, said valve body having return and pressure inlet and outlet ports formed therein for fluidly communicating with an interior cavity of said valve body; a return spool freely supported within an interior cavity of said return valving component of said valve body and configured to regulate fluid flow through said return inlet and outlet ports; and a pressure spool, independent of said return spool, and freely supported within an interior cavity of said pressure valving component of said valve body, said pressure spool configured to regulate fluid flow through said pressure inlet and outlet ports, said return spool being greater in size than said pressure spool and corresponding in size to said return valving component, said pressure spool corresponding in size to said pressure valving component. 10. The fluid control system of claim 1, wherein said pressure control valve comprises: a valve body having return and pressure inlet and outlet ports and first and second feedback ports formed therein for fluidly communicating with an interior cavity of said valve body; a return spool freely supported within said valve body and configured to regulate fluid flow through said return inlet and outlet ports; a pressure spool, independent of said return spool, and freely supported within said valve body opposite said return spool, said pressure spool configured to regulate fluid flow through said pressure inlet and outlet ports; an intrinsic pressure feedback system configured to displace said return and pressure spools in response to a pressure differential created between a pilot pressure and a feedback pressure concurrently acting on opposing sides of said return and pressure spools, said intrinsic pressure feedback system configured to dissipate said pressure differential and equalize said pilot pressure and said feedback pressure; and limiting means located within said valve body and configured to establish limiting positions of said return and pressure spools within said valve body during various valving states. 11. A fluid control system adapted to optimize power output for a given operating condition, comprising: a load; a first actuator operable with said load; a second actuator operable with said load, and operating antagonistic to said first actuator, said first and second actuators comprising a different size; a pressure control valve operable with each of said first and second actuators, and a pressurized fluid source, wherein said pressure control valve provides a continuously variable pressure to said first and second actuators that facilitates a continuous range of output forces; means for operably coupling said first and second actuators to said load; and a control algorithm operable to recruit and actuate either of said first and second actuators to achieve variable power output. 12. A method for varying power output within a fluid control system operable with a load, said method comprising: providing a first pair of parallel actuators operating antagonistic to one another, and operable with said load; providing a second pair of parallel actuators operating antagonistic to one another, and operable with said load, said second pair of parallel actuators comprising a different size than said first pair of parallel actuators; operating at least one pressure control valve with each pair of said first and second pairs of parallel actuators and a pressurized fluid source, wherein said at least one pressure control valve provides a continuously variable pressure to said parallel actuators that facilitates a continuous range of output forces; coupling said first and second pairs of actuators to said load; and recruiting, selectively, from said first and second pairs of parallel actuators to achieve a variable power output, said recruiting being capable of separately recruiting and actuating either of said first and second pairs of parallel actuators, as well as a combination of said first and second pairs of parallel actuators. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising causing one or more pressure control valves operable with a non-recruited pair of parallel actuators to enter a valving state of inactive passivity that permits said non-recruited pair of parallel actuators to displace, without active input, simultaneously with a recruited pair of parallel actuators being actuated by active input. 14. The method of claim 12, further comprising coupling said first and second pairs of actuators to said load via a tendon drive system. 15. The fluid control system of claim 14, wherein said tendon drive system comprises: a first tendon and first pulley operable with said first pair of parallel actuators; and a second tendon and second pulley operable with said second pair of parallel actuators, said first and second pulleys being operably coupled to said load. 16. The method of claim 12, further comprising utilizing a control algorithm adapted to control said recruiting, selectively, from said first and second pairs of parallel actuators. 17. A method for varying power output within a fluid control system operable with a load, said method comprising: recruiting a first pair of parallel actuators to achieve a first power output; recruiting a second pair of parallel actuators, having different size than said first pair of parallel actuators, to achieve a second power output; recruiting, in combination, said first and second pairs of parallel actuators to achieve a third power output; causing a pressure control valve operable with said second pair of parallel actuators to enter a state of inactive passivity during said recruiting of said first pair of parallel actuators to achieve said first power output; and causing a pressure control valve operable with said first pair of parallel actuators to enter a state of inactive passivity during said recruiting of said second pair of parallel actuators to achieve said second power output, wherein said pressure control valve operable with said second pair of parallel actuators provides a continuously variable pressure to said second pair of parallel actuators that facilitates a continuous range of output forces, said range comprising said second power output. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising maintaining at least some active input to said pressure control valves during said state of inactive passivity. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising selectively alternating between said recruiting said first pair of parallel actuators, said recruiting said second pair of parallel actuators, and said recruiting, in combination, said first and second pairs of parallel actuators to achieve selective variable power outputs as needed, and in response to given operating conditions. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising recruiting only those pairs of parallel actuators necessary to maintain operation of said load within a certain range of operating conditions, and to preserve the greatest amount of pressurized fluid. 21. The method of claim 17, further comprising reverting to the most efficient actuation state available to still enable proper operation of said load given a current operating condition, said reverting comprising recruiting an appropriate pair or combination of pairs of parallel actuators. 