The disclosed methods address the identification and monitoring of cancer in a subject using serum peptide profiles. Such profiles allow the detection of the differential presence of certain serum peptide markers in comparison with controls. The profiles can be determined employing mass spectrometry.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of generating a peptide profile of a subject having cancer of the prostate, comprising the steps of: i) combining an exogenous peptide selected from the group consisting of a complement C3f, ITIH4, clusterin, complement C4-alpha, fibrinopeptide A, kininogen, factor XIII, fibrinogenA peptide and combinations thereof with a biological sample from the subject; and ii) proteolytically digesting a peptide of step i), wherein combining the biological sample and said peptide proteolytically digests said peptide, and wherein the biological sample is serum or plasma, thereby generating a peptide profile of the subject. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the exogenous peptide is labeled with an isotope. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the peptide profile indicates that the subject has cancer of the prostate. 4. A method of generating a peptide profile of a subject having cancer of the bladder, comprising the steps of: i) combining an exogenous peptide selected from the group consisting of a complement C3f, ITIH4, clusterin, complement C4-alpha, fibrinopeptide A, bradykinin, APO A-I, APO A-IV, APO E, kininogen, fibrinogenA peptide and combinations thereof with a biological sample from the subject; and ii) proteolytically digesting a peptide of step i), wherein combining the biological sample and said peptide proteolytically digests said peptide, and wherein the biological sample is serum or plasma, thereby generating a peptide profile of the subject. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the exogenous peptide is labeled with an isotope. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the peptide profile indicates that the subject has cancer of the bladder. 7. A method of generating a peptide profile of a subject having cancer of the breast, comprising the steps of: i) combining an exogenous peptide selected from the group consisting of a ITIH4, bradykinin, complement C4-alpha, fibrinopeptide A, complement C3f, APO A-IV, factor XIII, transthyretin, fibrinogenA peptide and combinations thereof with a biological sample from the subject; and ii) proteolytically digesting a peptide of step i), wherein combining the biological sample and said peptide proteolytically digests said peptide, and wherein the biological sample is serum or plasma, thereby generating a peptide profile of the subject. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the exogenous peptide is labeled with an isotope. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the peptide profile indicates that the subject has cancer of the breast. 10. A method of generating a peptide profile of a subject having cancer of the thyroid, comprising the steps of: i) combining an exogenous peptide selected from the group consisting of a fibrinopeptide A, fibrinogenA peptide, complement C3f and combinations thereof with a biological sample from the subject; and ii) proteolytically digesting a peptide of step i), wherein combining the biological sample and said peptide proteolytically digests said peptide, and wherein the biological sample is serum or plasma, thereby generating a peptide profile of the subject. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the exogenous peptide is labeled with an isotope. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the peptide profile indicates that the subject has cancer of the thyroid. 