A man-machine interface which provides tactile feedback to various sensing body parts is disclosed. The device employs one or more vibrotactile units, where each unit comprises a mass and a mass-moving actuator. As the mass is accelerated by the mass-moving actuator, the entire vibrotactile unit vibrates. Thus, the vibrotactile unit transmits a vibratory stimulus to the sensing body part to which it is affixed. The vibrotactile unit may be used in conjunction with a spatial placement sensing device which measures the spatial placement of a measured body part. A computing device uses the spatial placement of the measured body part to determine the desired vibratory stimulus to be provided by the vibrotactile unit. In this manner, the computing device may control the level of vibratory feedback perceived by the corresponding sensing body part in response to the motion of the measured body part. The sensing body part and the measured body part may be separate or the same body part.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of decoupling an amplitude and a frequency in a rotary actuator, wherein the actuator comprises an eccentric mass coupled to a shaft, the eccentric mass configured to rotate about the shaft to produce a haptic effect, the method comprising: measuring, by a sensor coupled to the actuator, an angular displacement of the eccentric mass about the shaft; and outputting a control signal to the actuator from a processor based on the measured angular displacement, wherein the processor is coupled to the sensor, the control signal configured to accelerate the eccentric mass for a first range of displacement of a full rotation and decelerate the eccentric mass for a second range of displacement of the full rotation. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first range of displacement of the full rotation comprises a first half of the full rotation or a first 180 degrees of the full rotation. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second range of displacement of the full rotation comprises a second half of the full rotation or a second 180 degrees of the full rotation. 4. A haptic effect assembly comprising: a motor; a shaft extending from the motor; an eccentric mass configured to rotate about the shaft to produce a haptic effect; a sensor configured to measure an angular displacement of the mass; a circuit coupled to the motor and the sensor, the circuit adapted to control a rate of movement of the eccentric mass while rotating about the shaft, wherein the circuit accelerates the eccentric mass for a first range of displacement of a full rotation about the shaft and decelerate the mass for a second range of displacement of the full rotation. 5. The haptic effect assembly of claim 4, wherein the first range of displacement of the full rotation comprises a first half of the full rotation or a first 180 degrees of the full rotation. 6. The haptic effect assembly of claim 4, wherein the second range of displacement of the full rotation comprises a second half of the full rotation or a second 180 degrees of the full rotation. 7. The haptic effect assembly of claim 4, wherein the circuit comprises a control system that is configured to achieve a single rotation of the shaft. 8. The haptic effect assembly of claim 7, wherein a rotational position of the mass is based on a bandwidth of the control system. 9. The haptic effect assembly of claim 7, wherein a rotational position of the mass is based on a friction and damping of the control system. 10. A mass moving actuator comprising: a motor; a shaft extending from the motor; a rotatable structure coupled to the shaft and configured to rotate about the shaft upon the motor being activated; an elastic member coupled to the rotatable structure; and a mass coupled to the elastic member, the mass and elastic member configured to move linearly with respect to the rotatable structure when the motor is activated to adjust a magnitude of a haptic effect output by the actuator when activated. 11. The mass moving actuator of claim 10, wherein one end of the elastic member is attached to the rotatable structure and an other end of the elastic member is attached to the mass. 