Device and method for harvesting and implanting hair follicular units is provided. A combined harvesting and implanting tool or tool assembly provides a harvesting cannula portion detachably coupled to an implanting cannula portion. The harvesting and implanting cannula portions may be coupled by a connector that could be designed to allow for multiple uses of the tool assembly, or alternatively may be designed for single use and rendered non-functional when the implanting cannula portion of the tool is separated from the harvesting cannula portion of the tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for harvesting and implanting a hair follicular unit, comprising: harvesting a follicular unit from a body surface, wherein the harvested follicular unit is received into, and carried in, an interior lumen of a harvesting cannula; transferring the harvested hair follicular unit from the interior lumen of the harvesting cannula into an interior lumen of an implanting cannula while the implanting cannula is aligned in tandem with the harvesting cannula; and implanting the follicular unit from the implanting cannula lumen into a same or different body surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the harvesting cannula is coupled to the implanting cannula when harvesting the follicular unit, the method further comprising detaching the harvesting cannula from the implanting cannula after the follicular unit has been transferred from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implanting cannula lumen. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein detachment of the implanting cannula from the harvesting cannula renders one or both of the implanting and harvesting cannulas unfit for reuse. 4. The method of claim 2, further comprising reattaching the same or a different implanting cannula to the harvesting cannula after the follicular unit has been implanted. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein detaching the implanting cannula from the harvesting cannula comprises breaking a connection therebetween. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein detaching the harvesting cannula from the implanting cannula comprises crushing a proximal end of the harvesting cannula. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the follicular unit is transferred from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implanting cannula lumen using suction. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the follicular unit is transferred from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implanting cannula lumen using a physical displacement member. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the follicular unit is transferred from the harvesting cannula lumen into the implanting cannula lumen using both a physical displacement member and suction. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the harvesting and implanting the follicular unit is substantially automated. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving the harvesting cannula and the implanting cannula together as a single unit while harvesting the follicular unit. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the harvesting and implanting the follicular unit is computer controlled. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein transferring the harvested hair follicular unit comprises aligning a distal end of the harvesting cannula adjacent a proximal end of the implanting cannula. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein transferring the harvested hair follicular unit comprises aligning a proximal end of the harvesting cannula adjacent a distal end of the implanting cannula. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising using an alignment sleeve to facilitate alignment of the harvesting and the implanting cannulas. 