A system for process control comprises a server digital data processor and a client digital data processor that are coupled by a network, such as the Internet or an Intranet. The server digital data processor, which is additionally coupled to a control/sensing device and any associated interface equipment (collectively, referred to as "process control apparatus"), includes a command processor that transfers information between the network and the process control apparatus. The client digital data processor includes an information client (e.g., a so-called Internet web browser) capable of requesting and receiving an applet from the server digital data processor. The information client, further, defines a hardware-independent and operating system-independent virtual machine environment within the client digital data processor. The client digital data processor executes, within that virtual machine environment, an applet for configuring the client digital data processor as a "process controller" that establishes communications over the network with the command processor and that monitors and/or controls the process control apparatus via those communications.
Claims Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments discussed above and shown in the claims are merely illustrative and that other embodiments incorporating modifications within the reach of one of ordinary skill in the art fall within the scope of the invention, of which we claim: 1. A portable computer for use in a process control system, comprising: a digital data processor located remotely with respect to process control equipment and coupled thereto via a network; software for execution on the digital data processor that generates and transmits via the network a request to get a value associated with the process control equipment and to display the value received in response to such request; the software configured to generate and transmit via the network a request to set a value associated with the process control equipment. 2. The portable computer of claim 1, wherein the portable computer is configured to receive the software, via the network, from a digital data processor associated with the process control equipment. 3. The portable computer of claim 2, wherein the process control equipment comprises any of a control station, server, a further digital data processor, and further process control apparatus. 4. The portable computer of claim 2, where the digital data processor comprises a device that receives input from an operator. 5. The portable computer of claim 4, wherein the device that receives input from the operator comprises any of a keyboard and mouse. 6. The portable computer of claim 4, where the digital data processor comprises a display. 7. The portable computer of claim 2, wherein the software comprises any of (i) a browser, (ii) an information client, and (iii) an applet that executes within an environment defined by a browser and/or an information client. 8. The portable computer of claim 2, wherein the software configures the portable computer as a process controller. 9. The portable computer of claim 2 wherein the software responds to input to generate and transmit on the network a request to update information regarding the control equipment. 10. The portable computer of claim 2, wherein the software generates a display that permits the operator to select process control apparatus values that are to be displayed. 11. The portable computer of claim 10, wherein the software transmits to the control equipment a request for at least one of creating, reading, writing and destroying an object. 12. The portable computer of claim 11, wherein the object stores information that controls and/or reflects the status of associated process control equipment. 13. A portable computer for use in a process control system, comprising: a digital data processor in remote communication with process control equipment; software for execution on the digital data processor that generates and transmits a request to get a value associated with the process control equipment and to display the value received in response to such request; the software configured to generate and transmit via a network a request to set a value associated with the process control equipment. 14. The portable computer of claim 13, wherein the portable computer is configured to receive the software, via the network, from a digital data processor associated with the process control equipment. 15. The portable computer of claim 14, wherein the digital data processor comprises at least one of (i) a display and (ii) a device that receives input from an operator. 16. The portable computer of claim 14, wherein the process control equipment comprises any of a control station, server, a further digital data processor, and further process control apparatus. 17. The portable computer of claim 14, wherein the software comprises any of (i) a browser, (ii) an information client, and (iii) an applet that executes within an environment defined by a browser and/or an information client. 18. The portable computer of claim 14, wherein the software configures the portable computer as a process controller. 19. The portable computer of claim 14, wherein the software responds to input to generate and transmit on the network a request to update information regarding the control equipment. 20. A portable computer for use in a process control system, comprising: a digital data processor in remote communication with process control equipment; software for execution on the digital data processor that (i) permits the operator to select process control values that are to be displayed, (ii) transmits one or more requests to get such values, and (ii) displays one or more values received in response to such requests; and the software configured to generate and transmit via a network a request to set a value associated with the process control equipment. 21. The portable computer of claim 20, wherein the portable computer is configured to receive the software, via the network, from a digital data processor associated with the process control equipment. 22. The portable computer of claim 21, wherein the software transmits to the control equipment a request for at least one of creating, reading, writing and destroying an object. 23. The portable computer of claim 22, wherein the object stores information that controls and/or reflects the status of associated process control equipment. 24. The portable computer of claim 23, wherein the software transmits to the control equipment a request for at least one of creating, reading, writing and destroying an object. 25. The portable computer of claim 24, wherein the object stores information that controls and/or reflects the status of associated process control equipment. 