The present invention relates to compact palletizers that include a stretch-wrap operation as the pallet is built. Specifically, the present invention uses a robot to place items from a fixed infeed elevation either above or, alternatively, below the height of the finished load. A four-sided compression mechanism compresses the rough-built load to the final pallet size and then the entire layer is released to the pallet. Individual items or group of items are picked and placed onto a layer support device in a loose orientation. The loose orientation enables a much faster palletizing operation because the robotic arm that pick-and-places the item, the items, or the row of items, can travel much faster as it does not have to precisely locate the item, items, or row of items. During the time that a layer is being loosely constructed on the layer support device concurrent wrapping can occur.
Claims We claim: 1. An item handling and stacking system adapted to receive at least one item from an infeed system presented at a first height, the item handling and stacking system comprising: a frame defining a generally vertical column of space; a layer queuing device within the vertical column of space and operable within the vertical column, the layer queuing device comprising a layer assembly platform where items are placed for layer assembly, and the layer queuing device further adapted to independently and selectively reciprocate vertically in the vertical column of space, the layer queuing device further comprising an apron operable from a first closed position to a second open position, and a compression mechanism operable to include relative movement in at least two directions in a single plane, the compression mechanism comprising a first x-direction arm and a second, oppositely disposed x-direction arm, and a first y-direction barrier arranged generally perpendicular to the first x-direction arm and cooperating with both arms to define a generally rectilinear space; a pallet-build area disposed within the vertical column of space and positioned under the layer queuing device; a pick-and-place robot disposed adjacent to the vertical column of space, the robot adapted to transfer the at least one item from the infeed system at the first height to a predetermined position on the layer queuing device; and a stretch wrapping device comprising means for automatic wrap start and wrap cut after wrapping completion, a turntable positioned in the vertical column of space and adapted to selectively rotate, and a wrap dispensing system adjacent to the turntable, the dispensing system being operable to concurrently wrap a plurality of item layers within the vertical column while at least one item is being transferred from the infeed system to the layer assembly platform. 2. The item handling and stacking system according to claim 1 in which the layer queuing device further comprises: a flexible apron comprising at least one roller curtain floor operable between open and closed positions. 3. The item handling and stacking system according to claim 1 in which the layer queuing device further comprises: a flexible apron comprising at least two roller curtain floors operable to selectively index in the same horizontal plane, the first roller curtain floor following a first continuously looped path and operable in a clockwise direction and the second roller curtain floor following a second continuously looped path and operable in an anti-clockwise direction. 4. The item handling and stacking system according to claim 1 in which the layer queuing device further comprises: a rigid apron comprising at least one floor panel operable to actuate from a closed position to an open position. 5. The item handling and stacking system according to claim 1 in which the pick-and-place robot further comprises: a gripping element disposed at the end of an arm, the gripping element and arm being operable to pick and place the at least one item from the infeed system and transfer the at least one item to a predetermined location on the layer queuing device, the gripping element further comprising a bottom support picker. 6. The item handling and stacking system according to claim 1 wherein the apron of the layer queuing device comprises an oversized layer assembly platform having an at least two-axis compression mechanism operable to position the at least one item on the oversized layer assembly platform from a first loosely placed position to a second compressed position, the second compressed position approximating a finished pallet dimension. 7. The item handling and stacking system according to claim 1 wherein: the vertical column of space includes a finish-build height defined by a final pallet layer comprising a plurality of items deposited by the layer queuing element; and the finish-build height is the same or lower than the infeed system first height. 8. The item handling and stacking system according to claim 7 wherein the pick-and-place robot further comprises: a robotic end effector adapted sliding items from the infeed conveyor to the layer assembly platform, the end effector comprising a variable sized push bar, the push bar comprising a positionable hand, the hand being operable from 0-degrees rotation to 270-degrees rotation relative to the push bar whereby a rotation of 0-degrees enables the hand to be folded on the push bar and whereby 180-degrees rotation enables the hand and push bar to cooperatively extend the effective length of the push bar, and whereby 270-degrees rotation creates a right-angle with the push bar. 9. The item handling and stacking system according to claim 8 wherein the robotic end effector is operable to rotate the at least one item 90-degrees from a first orientation to a second orientation. 10. The item handling and stacking system according to claim 1 wherein: the vertical column of space includes a finish-build height defined by a final pallet layer comprising a plurality of items deposited by the layer queuing element; and the finish-build height is higher than the infeed system first height. 11. The item handling and stacking system according to claim 1 wherein: the robot is operable to transfer a plurality of items from the infeed conveyor to the layer queuing device; and the layer queuing device adapts to receive the plurality of items to form multiple layers on the layer queuing device. 12. A hybrid palletizer comprising: a frame defining a generally vertical column of space; an infeed system positioned at a first height relative to the vertical column of space; a vertical transport platform adapted to independently and selectively reciprocate vertically adjacent to the vertical column of space; a layer queuing device within the vertical column of space and operable between a first position and a second position within the vertical column, the layer queuing device comprising a layer assembly platform where items are placed for layer assembly and the layer assembly platform defining a selectively adjustable layer-assembly height and further operable to receive at least one item at the layer-assembly height, the layer-assembly height being intermediate to the first and second positions, and the layer queuing device further adapted to independently and selectively reciprocate vertically in the vertical column of space, the layer queuing device further comprising a selectively openable and closable apron; a pallet-build area disposed within the vertical column of space; and a robot operable to pick and place at least one item from the infeed system to the vertical transport layer assembly platform. 13. The hybrid palletizer of claim 12 in which the robot further comprises: a gripping element disposed at the end of an arm, the gripping element and arm being operable to pick and place the at least one item from the infeed conveyor to the vertical transport layer assembly platform, the gripping element further comprising a bottom support picker. 14. The hybrid palletizer of claim 12 wherein: the layer queuing device further comprises a transfer mechanism operable to slidably transfer at least one item from the vertical transport platform. 15. The hybrid palletizer of claim 12 wherein: the layer queuing device further comprises an apron defining the layer assembly height, the apron operable from a first closed position to a second open position and a compression mechanism disposed in the vertical column and operable to include relative movement in at least two directions in a single plane, the compression mechanism comprising a first x-direction arm and a second, oppositely disposed x-direction arm, a first y-direction arm, and a second, oppositely disposed y-direction arm whereby the four arms cooperate to define a generally rectilinear space, the four arms cooperatively operable from a first, loose-build position to a second compressed-build position; and wherein the hybrid palletizer and item handling system further comprises a stretch wrap device positioned in the vertical column of space and being operable for concurrent and automated stretch wrapping of a plurality of pre-positioned items within the vertical column while at least one item is being transferred from the infeed system to the layer queuing device. 16. The hybrid palletizer of claim 15 wherein the compression mechanism further comprises: a four-axis compaction element wherein the first x-direction arm and the second, oppositely disposed x-direction arm are operable to selectively move toward each other to compact a plurality of items from a rough-build x-direction to a compact-build x direction and wherein the first y-direction arm, and the second, oppositely disposed y-direction arm are operable to selectively move toward each other to compact a plurality of items from a rough-build y-direction to a compact-build y direction. 17. An item handling and stacking system adapted to receive at least one item from a high infeed system presented at a first height, the item handling and stacking system comprising: a frame defining a generally vertical column of space; a layer queuing device within the vertical column of space, the layer queuing device comprising a layer assembly platform where items are placed for layer assembly, the layer assembly platform selectively vertically adjustable in the vertical column of space to a layer-assembly height and operable to receive at least one item at a layer-assembly height, the layer queuing device further comprising an apron operable from a first closed position to a second open position; a pallet-build area disposed within the vertical column of space and positioned under the layer queuing device; and a pick-and-place robot adapted to transfer the at least one item from the infeed system at the first height to a predetermined position on the layer queuing device at the layer assembly height. 18. The item handling and stacking system according to claim 17 in which the pick-and-place robot further comprises: a robotic end effector adapted sliding items from the infeed conveyor to a vertical transport platform, the end effector comprising a variable sized push bar, the push bar comprising a positionable hand, the hand being operable from 0-degrees rotation to 270-degrees rotation relative to the push bar whereby a rotation of 0-degrees enables the hand to be folded on the push bar (for a compact position) and whereby 180-degrees rotation enables the hand and push bar to cooperatively extend the effective length of the push bar, and whereby 270-degrees rotation creates a right-angle with the push bar. 19. An item handling and stacking system adapted to receive at least one item from an infeed system presented at a first height, the item handling and stacking system comprising: a frame defining a generally vertical column of space; a layer queuing device within the vertical column of space and selectively operable to reciprocate between a first position and a second position within the vertical column, the layer queuing device comprising a layer assembly platform where items are placed for layer assembly and the layer assembly platform defining a selectively adjustable layer-assembly height and further operable to receive at least one item at the layer-assembly height, the layer-assembly height being intermediate to the first and second positions, the layer queuing device further comprising an apron operable from a first closed position to a second open position; a pallet-build area disposed within the vertical column of space and positioned under the layer queuing device; and a pick-and-place robot adapted to transfer the at least one item from the infeed system at the first height to a predetermined position on the layer queuing device at the layer-assembly height. 