A device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification (RFID) tags is disclosed. The device includes a mobile base, a robotic arm, and a data reading device. The robotic arm is attached to the mobile base. The data reading device employed to collect the data of electric tags is attached to the end of the robotic arm. A device for retrieving data from an RFID tag arrives at the position, where the electric tag is, by moving the mobile base and adjusting the height of the robotic arm. The movement is controlled according to the position and the height of the electric tag. Finally, the data reading device reads the data stored in the electric tag.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags, and the device comprising: a mobile base; a robotic arm mounted on the mobile device and the robotic arm having a mounting base mounted on the mobile base; and an arm device pivotally mounted on the mounting base and rotated by a first rotating device relative to the mounting base, and the arm device having a second rotating device; and a data reading device attached to the second rotation device of the arm device. 2. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 1, wherein the mobile base includes a rotating platform which rotates within a range of 0.about.360 degrees, and the mounting base is mounted on the rotating platform. 3. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 2, wherein the mobile base is a programmable mobile device having a microcomputer device to control the programmable mobile device, the rotating platform, the robotic arm and the data reading device. 4. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 3, wherein the programmable mobile device further includes an electrical energy storage device electrically connected to the programmable mobile device, the robotic arm and the data reading device to provide power. 5. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 4, wherein the electrical energy storage device includes a charge device and a battery, and the charge device is connected to a power source to charge the battery. 6. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags to of claim 5, wherein the programmable mobile device includes a driving device having a first driving motor and a second driving motor through a transmission mechanism to output power respectively. 7. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 6, wherein the arm device includes a plurality of telescopic devices, and each telescopic device is connected to each other sequentially. 8. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 7, wherein a joint portion is mounted between each pair of connected telescopic devices, and includes a third rotating device. 9. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 8, wherein each third rotating device includes a third driving motor and a first transmission mechanism, and the third driving motor is coupled with the first transmission mechanism to drive the third rotating device. 10. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 9, wherein each telescopic device includes an upper arm and a lower arm, and the upper arm is telescopically mounted on the lower arm. 11. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 10, wherein the lower arm includes a screw rod, a sliding block, a fourth driving motor and a second transmission mechanism, and the fourth driving motor is coupled with the second transmission mechanism to rotate the screw rod, and the sliding block is movably mounted on the screw rod and the upper arm is connected to the sliding block. 12. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 11, wherein the data reading device is a reader of radio frequency is identification. 13. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 12, wherein the first driving motor, the second driving motor, the third driving motor and the fourth driving motor are a direct current servo motor, respectively. 14. The device for retrieving data from radio frequency identification tags of claim 12, wherein the first driving motor, the second driving motor, the third driving motor and the fourth driving motor are an alternating current servo motor, respectively. 