This invention relates to methods and apparatus for making articles made of polyester, preferably polyethylene terephthalate (PET), having coated directly to at least one of the surfaces thereof one or more layers of thermoplastic material with good gas-barrier characteristics. In one preferred method and apparatus, preforms are injection molded, barrier-coated immediately thereafter, and remain on a mold portion for a time to speed cooling of the completed preform. Preferably the barrier-coated articles take the form of preforms coated by at least one layer of barrier material and the containers are blow-molded therefrom. Such barrier-coated containers are preferably of the type to hold beverages such as soft drinks, beer or juice. The preferred barrier materials have a lower permeability to oxygen and carbon dioxide than PET as well as key physical properties similar to PET. The materials and methods provide that the barrier layers have good adherence to PET, even during and after the blow molding process to form containers from preforms. Preferred barrier coating materials include poly(hydroxyamino ethers).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mold for injection molding preforms, the mold comprising: a first mold portion comprising a plurality of cavities, each cavity comprising a cavity mold surface; a second mold portion comprising a plurality of mandrels; and a fluid insertion system coupled to at least one of the cavities; wherein the first and second mold portions are moveable between a closed position and an open position, wherein each of the plurality of cavities is mated with a corresponding mandrel of the plurality of mandrels in the closed position; wherein a plurality of void spaces is defined by the cavities and corresponding mandrels when the mold is in the closed position, the fluid insertion system being configured to selectively deliver a volume of fluid to at least one void space; and wherein fluid delivered to the void space by the fluid insertion system helps overcome vacuum forces between a molded preform and the corresponding cavity. 2. The mold of claim 1, wherein the fluid insertion system comprises at least one notch along the cavity mold surface. 3. The mold of claim 2, wherein the at least one notch is formed at least partially by a step. 4. The mold of claim 3, wherein the step comprises a depth of approximately 0.002 to 0.005 inches. 5. The mold of claim 2, wherein the notch is at least partially circumferentially disposed around the cavity mold surface. 6. The mold of claim 1, wherein fluid delivered to the void space by the fluid insertion system comprises air. 7. The mold of claim 1, wherein the fluid insertion system comprises a flow control device configured to selectively control the flow of fluid to the void space. 8. The mold of claim 7, wherein the flow control device comprises a valve. 9. The mold of claim 1, wherein the fluid insertion system is in fluid communication with an air line. 10. The mold of claim 9, wherein an operating pressure of the air line is about 75 psi to 150 psi. 11. The mold of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of cavities and the plurality of mandrels comprises a high heat transfer material. 12. A method of injection molding a plurality of multi-layer preforms, the method comprising: providing a mold assembly comprising a cavity portion and a mandrel portion, the mandrel portion being configured to rotate, the mandrel portion being divided into a plurality of stations, wherein a first station of the mandrel portion comprises a plurality of molding mandrels and a first station cooling system, and wherein a second station of the mandrel portion comprises a plurality of coating mandrels and a second station cooling system; wherein the cavity portion and the mandrel portion are selectively movable between a closed position and an open position; moving the cavity portion and the mandrel portion into the closed position, wherein the molding mandrels mate with corresponding cavities of the cavity section defining a plurality of molding void spaces, and the coating mandrels mate with corresponding cavities of the cavity section defining a plurality of coating void spaces; injecting a volume of a first melt material within the molding void spaces while simultaneously injecting a volume of a second melt material within the coating void spaces; cooling the first melt material using the first station cooling system and cooling the second melt material using the second station cooling system; wherein operational parameters of the first station cooling system are separately controlled from operational parameters of the second station cooling system; moving the cavity portion and the mandrel portion into the open position, while the first melt material remains on the molding mandrels and the second melt material remains on the coating mandrels; rotating the mandrel portion; moving the cavity portion and the mandrel portion into the closed position so that the molding mandrels and the first melt material situated thereon mate with cavities of the cavity section defining a plurality of coating void spaces; injecting a volume of a second melt material within the coating void spaces so that the second melt material at least partially surround the first melt material, the first melt material and the second melt material forming a plurality of multi-layer preforms; cooling the multi-layer preform using the first station cooling system; moving the cavity portion and the mandrel portion into the open position, while the multi-layer preforms remain on the molding mandrels; rotating the mandrel portion; and ejecting the multi-layer preforms from the molding mandrels. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising delivering a volume of fluid within the molding void spaces toward the first melt material using a fluid insertion system, the fluid insertion system being situated within the cavities of the cavity portion. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein each station separated by 90 degrees of rotation. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the cavity portion comprises at least two cavity stations, each cavity section comprising a plurality of cavities, each cavity comprising a cavity mold surface. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein at least some of the cavities comprise a fluid insertion system. 17. The method of claim 16, the fluid insertion system comprises a notch along the cavity mold surface. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the notch is at least partially circumferentially disposed around the cavity mold surface. 19. A molding assembly for injection molding a two-layer preform, the molding assembly comprising: at least one cavity section; and a mandrel section configured to rotate about at axis; the mandrel section comprising a plurality of stations; wherein a first station of the mandrel section comprises a plurality of molding mandrels and a second station of the mandrel section comprises a plurality of coating mandrels; wherein the first and second stations of the mandrel section are configured to simultaneously mate with corresponding cavities of the cavity section; wherein the molding mandrels comprise a molding mandrel cooling system; wherein the coating mandrels comprise a coating mandrel cooling system; wherein operating parameters of the molding cooling system are configured to be separately controlled from operating parameters of the coating cooling system. 20. The molding assembly of claim 19, wherein each station of the mandrel section is separated by 90 degrees of rotation. 