The present invention relates to a system (10) operable to evaluate spasticity in a movable extremity (12). The system (10) comprises a fixation device (14) comprising a first part (14.sub.1) connected via a movable joint (16) to a second part (14.sub.2). The fixation device (14) is operable to fix the movable extremity (12) in such a way that the rotational axis of the fixation device (14) is aligned with the rotational axis of the joint of the movable extremity (12). The system (10) also comprises a moving device (18) operable to move the second part (14.sub.2) with a first, constant velocity (V.sub.1), without any reflex contribution, and with a second, constant velocity (V.sub.2) with reflex contribution. The system (10) also comprises a force sensor (20) operable to measure a first force trace in connection with the first velocity (V.sub.1), and a second force trace in connection with the second velocity (V.sub.2). The system (10) also comprises a processor means (22) connected to the force sensor (20), the processor means (22) is operable to extract a first point (P1) and second maximum point (P2) from the second force trace, and a third point (P3) from the first force trace, which three points (P1-P3) are used to evaluate spasticity.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system operable to evaluate spasticity in a movable extremity, said system comprising: a fixation device comprising a first part connected via a movable joint to a second part, the fixation device being operable to fix said movable extremity in such a way that the rotational axis of said fixation device is aligned with the rotational axis of the joint of the movable extremity, a moving device operable to move said second part with a first, constant velocity (V.sub.1) without any reflex contribution, and with a second, constant velocity (V.sub.2) with reflex contribution, a force sensor operable to measure a first force trace in connection with said first velocity (V.sub.1), and a second force trace in connection with said second velocity (V.sub.2), a processor means connected to said force sensor and operable to extract three resistance measurements from the first and second force traces, the three resistance measurements being a first point (P1) and second maximum point (P2) extracted from said second force trace, and a third point (P3) extracted from said first force trace, the three points (P1, P2 and P3) being used to evaluate spasticity based on non-neural contributions to passive movement resistance being reflected in (P1) and (P3) and neural contributions to passive movement resistance being reflected in (P2). 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said moving device also is operable to, after having moved said second part with said first velocity (V.sub.1) or with said second velocity (V.sub.2), hold said second part during a first predetermined time interval (t.sub.1) before moving said second part to a starting position, wherein said third point (P3) is measured during said first predetermined time interval (t.sub.1). 3. The system according to claim 2, wherein said moving device also is operable to hold said second part during a second predetermined time interval (t.sub.2) before starting moving said second part with said second velocity (V.sub.2). 4. The system according to claim 3, wherein said first velocity (V.sub.1) is in the range of 1-40 degrees/second, and said second velocity (V.sub.2) is in the range of 100-400 degrees/second. 5. The system according to claim 4, wherein said first velocity (V.sub.1) is 5 degrees/second, and said second velocity (V.sub.2) is 240 degrees/second. 6. The system according to claim 5, wherein said force sensor is arranged under said movable extremity. 7. The system according to claim 5, wherein said force sensor is arranged in connection with the rotational axis of said fixation device. 8. The system according to claim 6, wherein the resistance measurements corresponding to said three points (P1, P2 and P3) are defined as P1=max F at t<35 ms at said second velocity (V.sub.2), P2=max F at 35 ms<t<t (stop) at said second velocity (V.sub.2), and P3=F at t (stop)+1 s at said first velocity (V.sub.1), where "F" is force, "t" is the time of the respective resistance measurements, and "t (stop)" is the moment in time when said second part has stopped moving. 9. A method for evaluating spasticity in a movable extremity with the aid of a system comprising a fixation device comprising a first part connected via a movable joint to a second part, a moving device, a force sensor and a processor means connected to said force sensor, the method comprising the steps of: using the fixation device to fix said movable extremity in such a way that the rotational axis of said fixation device is aligned with the rotational axis of the joint of the movable extremity; using the moving device to move said second part with a first, constant velocity (V.sub.1), without any reflex contribution and to move said second part with a second, constant velocity (V.sub.2), with reflex contribution; using the force sensor to measure a first force trace in connection with said first velocity (V.sub.1) and a second force trace in connection with said second velocity (V.sub.2); using the processor means connected to said force sensor to extract three resistance measurements from the first and second force traces, the three resistance measurements being a first point (P1) and second maximum point (P2) extracted from said second force trace, and a third point (P3) extracted from said first force trace, the three points (P1, P2 and P3) being used to evaluate spasticity based on non-neural contributions to passive movement resistance being reflected in (P1) and (P3) and neural contributions to passive movement resistance being reflected in (P2). 10. The method for evaluating spasticity in a movable extremity according to claim 9, wherein said method also comprises the steps of: after said second part has been moved with said first velocity (V.sub.1) or with said second velocity (V.sub.2), holding said second part during a first, predetermined time interval (t.sub.1), before moving said second part to a starting position; and measuring said third point (P3) during said first, predetermined time interval (t.sub.1). 11. The method for evaluating spasticity in a movable extremity according to claim 10, wherein said method also comprises the step of holding said second part during a second, predetermined time interval (t.sub.2) before starting to move said second part with said second velocity (V.sub.2). 12. The method for evaluating spasticity in a movable extremity according to claim 11, wherein said first velocity (V.sub.1) is in the range of 1-40 degrees/second, and said second velocity (V.sub.2) is in the range of 100-400 degrees/second. 13. The method for evaluating spasticity in a movable extremity according to claim 12, wherein said first velocity (V.sub.1) is 5 degrees/second, and said second velocity (V.sub.2) is 240 degrees/second. 14. The method for evaluating spasticity in a movable extremity according to claim 13, wherein said measurements of said force traces are performed using the force sensor with the force sensor arranged under said movable extremity. 15. The method for evaluating spasticity in a movable extremity according to claim 13, wherein said measurements of said force traces are performed using the force sensor with the force sensor arranged in connection with the rotational axis of said fixation device. 16. The method for evaluating spasticity in a movable extremity according to claim 14, wherein the resistance measurements corresponding to said three points (P1, P2 and P3) are defined as P1=max F at t<35 ms at said second velocity (V.sub.2), P2=max F at 35 ms<t<t (stop) at said second velocity (V.sub.2), and P3=F at t (stop)+1 s at said first velocity (V.sub.1), where "F" is force, "t" is the time of the respective resistance measurements, and "t (stop)" is the moment in time when said second part has stopped moving. 17. At least one computer program product (102.sub.1, . . . , 102.sub.n) directly loadable into an internal memory of at least one digital computer (100.sub.1, . . . , 100.sub.n), comprising software code portions for performing the steps of claim 9 when said at least one product (102.sub.1, . . . , 102.sub.n) is/are run on said at least one computer (100.sub.1, . . . , 100.sub.n). 