The invention relates to a method for assembling sheets by riveting, comprising a step for piercing a hole through the sheets, followed by a step for placing a rivet in the pierced hole, the step for piercing a hole being executed by supplying an advance speed instruction of a piercing tool as well as a rotation speed instruction of this tool. According to the invention, a previous step for determining information on the local stiffness of the sheets (Info_stiffness) is also carried out at the level of the hole to be pierced, the advance speed instruction and rotation speed instruction of the tool being a function of this information on the local stiffness of the sheets. Application most suited to the field of aircraft construction.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for assembling sheets by riveting, comprising: determining information on a local stiffness of the sheets at a level of a hole to be pierced, following said determining, piercing said hole through said sheets, wherein piercing the hole comprises: providing an advance speed instruction of a piercing tool and a rotation speed instruction of the piercing tool; following said piercing the hole, placing a rivet in the pierced hole; and wherein said advance speed instruction and said rotation speed instruction of the piercing tool both being a function of said information on the local stiffness of the sheets, wherein said step for determining information on the local stiffness of the sheets at the level of said hole to be pierced is performed by carrying out a clamping operation aimed at sinking a sheet press system into the sheets at the level of said hole to be pierced, and wherein the sheet press system being intended to have the piercing tool pass through the sheets during the subsequent to piercing the hole. 2. The assembly method according to claim 1, wherein said step for determining information on the local stiffness of the sheets at the level of said hole to be pierced is performed by carrying out the clamping operation aimed at sinking a sheet press system into the sheets at the level of said hole to be pierced over a clamping distance reaching a final value on completion of the clamping operation, and wherein during a clamping operation, a value of a resistance force of the sheets to the clamping operation resulting from sinking the sheet press system into the sheets is determined periodically, to determine said value of the resistance force of the sheets to the clamping operation on completion of said clamping operation. 3. The assembly method according to claim 2, wherein determination of the value of the resistance force of the sheets to the clamping operation is performed by determining a value of the motor power absorbed by the sheet press system sinking into the sheets, and wherein the value of the motor power absorbed by the sheet is then converted by a converter to produce said value of the resistance force of the sheets to the clamping operation. 4. The assembly method according to claim 2, wherein said clamping operation is completed when one or more of, the resistance force of the sheets to the clamping operation has reached a resistance target value or when the clamping distance has reached a distance target value. 5. The assembly method according to claim 2, wherein said step for determining information on the local stiffness of the sheets at the level of said hole to be pierced is performed, prior to executing said clamping operation, by also carrying out a docking operation of the sheet press system on the sheets at the level of said hole to be pierced, and wherein said docking operation during which the value of a resistance force of the sheets to the docking operation resulting from sinking the sheet press system into the sheets is determined periodically to determine a resistance force value of the sheets to the docking operation on completion of the docking operation. 6. The assembly method according to claim 5, wherein said clamping operation is started with the sheet press system located in a position occupied on completion of the docking operation. 7. The assembly method according to claim 5, wherein the information on the local stiffness of the sheets is obtained by making a ratio between on the one hand the difference between the value of the resistance force of the sheets on completion of the clamping operation and the value of the resistance force of the sheets on completion of the docking operation, and on the other hand the clamping distance. 8. The assembly method according to claim 7, wherein said advance speed instruction and said rotation speed instruction of the piercing tool are also a function of one or more of, the nature of the material of the sheets to be assembled, and of the type of piercing tool employed. 9. The assembly method according to claim 2, wherein during the piercing step of the hole the value of the resistance force of the sheets resulting from the support of the sheet press system on the sheets is determined periodically, and wherein the value of the resistance force is compared to a minimal resistance force value so as to order a decrease in the advance speed instruction of the piercing tool when the value of the resistance force of the sheets is less than said minimal resistance force value. 