A display screen device may comprise a first substrate including at least a substantially transparent glass having a thickness less than or equal to 1.1 millimeters; an anti-reflective thin film coating; and a second substrate including a touch screen device. Additionally, a method for providing a display screen device is disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A display screen device, comprising: a first substrate including at least a substantially transparent textured, etched alumino-silicate glass having a thickness of about 0.5 millimeters, said textured, etched alumino-silicate glass reduces an amount of reflected specular light on a surface of the first substrate; an anti-reflective thin film coating applied to the first substrate; a second substrate including a touch screen device, the second substrate being laminated to the first substrate, the touch screen device of the second substrate detects a location of a touch in a display area of said second substrate; and an exterior oleophobic coating. 2. The display screen device of claim 1, wherein said anti-reflective thin film coating comprises: an anti-reflective coating stack. 3. The display screen device of claim 1, wherein said second substrate including a touch screen device comprises: an outer screen of a flat panel display touchscreen. 4. The display screen device of claim 1, further comprising: a hydrophobic coating. 5. The display screen device of claim 1, further comprising: a conductive coating for reducing electro-magnetic interference. 6. A flat panel display unit, comprising: a first substrate including at least a substantially transparent textured, etched alumino-silicate glass having a thickness of about 0.5 millimeters, said textured, etched alumino-silicate glass reduces an amount of reflected specular light on a surface of the first substrate; an anti-reflective thin film coating applied to the first substrate; a second substrate including a touch screen device, the second substrate being laminated to the first substrate, the touch screen device detecting a location of a touch in a display area of said second substrate; a flat panel display including at least one of a third substrate, a fourth substrate, a liquid crystal layer embedded between third and fourth substrates, or a backlight assembly; an exterior oleophobic coating; and at least one printed circuit board. 7. The flat panel display unit of claim 6, wherein said anti-reflective thin film coating comprises: an anti-reflective coating stack. 8. The flat panel display unit of claim 6, wherein said second substrate including a touch screen device comprises: an outer screen of a flat panel display touchscreen. 9. The flat panel display unit of claim 6, further comprising: a hydrophobic coating. 10. The flat panel display unit of claim 6, further comprising: a conductive coating for reducing electro-magnetic interference. 