A geometric end effector system for use on a robot. The system includes a platform and a frame secured to the platform. At least one base is arranged at a predetermined position on the frame. The system also has an anchor mount secured to the base and a component connected to an end of the anchor mount by a collar assembly. A key is arranged between the component and the anchor mount.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A geometric end effector system comprising: a mechanism for connecting said geometric end effector system with a robot; an anchor mount secured to said mechanism; a component connected to said anchor mount by a collar assembly; and a key arranged between said component and said anchor mount. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said component is a boom or junction member. 3. The system of claim 2 further including accessory members secured to said boom, said junction member or said anchor mount. 4. The system of claim 2 wherein said boom or junction member having a breakaway point arranged at a predetermined position thereon. 5. The system of claim 1 further including at least one locating ball, said locating ball allows for the end effector system to be precisely aligned and held in a predetermined position. 6. An anchor for a geometric end effector system comprising: a mount for securing said anchor to a geometric end effector system; a component receiving mechanism coupled with said mount; a key arrangement on said component receiving mechanism, said key arrangement for receiving a key mating said component receiving mechanism with a component; and a collar assembly for coupling said component receiving mechanism with the component. 7. The anchor of claim 6 wherein said key arrangement is a cross arrangement that ensures no rotation occurs between the component and said component receiving mechanism. 8. The anchor of claim 6 wherein said component receiving mechanism having a breakaway point or region. 9. The anchor of claim 8 wherein said component receiving mechanism having a flange with a plurality of grooves arranged at predetermined intervals from one another. 10. The anchor of claim 9 wherein said flange having four grooves with 90.degree. intervals arranged therebetween. 11. The anchor of claim 9 wherein said breakaway region is arranged adjacent to said flange. 12. The anchor of claim 6 wherein said breakaway point generally occurs at an intersection of a flange and a cylindrical member of said component receiving mechanism. 13. The anchor of claim 12 wherein said breakaway point is defined by a reduced thickness of material or any other known weakening methodology or technique at said intersection. 14. The anchor of claim 6 wherein said collar assembly including a first and second collar half, said halves having a semi circular circumferential groove on an inner diameter thereof, said groove, having a first and second angled surface, said angled surfaces urging flanges of said component receiving mechanism and the component into engagement with each other. 15. The anchor of claim 14 wherein each of said angled surfaces having an angle of approximately 15.degree. from a centerline of said collar assembly. 16. The anchor of claim 14 wherein said flanges of said component receiving mechanism and said component including angled surfaces complementary to said collar surfaces. 17. An anchor for an end effector or fixture system for use on a robot, said anchor comprising: an anchor mount for securing to the end effector or fixture system; a component receiving mechanism connected to said anchor mount, said component receiving mechanism having a breakaway point that will fail when a predetermined force engages the end effector system allowing for quick recovery of the end effector or fixture through replacement of said anchor; and a key arranged between said component receiving mechanism and said anchor mount. 18. The anchor of claim 17 wherein said key arrangement is a cross key arrangement. 19. The anchor of claim 17 wherein said component receiving mechanism having a flange and a cylindrical member, said flange having at least one groove, a key is arranged in said groove to rotatably fix the component with respect to said anchor. 20. An anchor for a geometric end effector system comprising: a mount for securing said anchor to a geometric end effector system; a component receiving mechanism coupled with said mount; and a collar assembly for coupling said component receiving mechanism with a component, said collar assembly including a groove on an inner diameter thereof, said groove defining a flat inner diameter surface with two ends spaced a desired distance from a centerline of the collar assembly, said groove having a first and second angled surface each extending from one of the two ends of the flat inner diameter surface, said angled surfaces urging flanges of said component receiving mechanism and the component into engagement with each other. 21. The anchor of claim 20 wherein said collar assembly further including a first and second collar half, said halves including said groove. 22. The anchor of claim 21 wherein each of said angled surface having an angle of approximately 15.degree. from the centerline of said collar assembly. 23. The anchor of claim 20 wherein said flanges of said component receiving mechanism and said component including angled surfaces complementary to said collar surfaces. 