An X-ray apparatus is provided. The X-ray apparatus includes a C-arm mounted on a robotic arm that is operable to be rotated about an axis of rotation. A radiation source and a radiation detector are arranged on the C-arm. The distance between the radiation source and radiation detector may be varied by a lifting device. The radiation source may be moved longitudinally relative to the radiation detector, or vice versa. The C-arm may include two arm sections that can be moved relative to one another by a lifting device. The radiation source is arranged on the one arm section and the radiation receiver is arranged on the other arm section.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An X-ray apparatus comprising: a robotic arm; a radiation source; a radiation detector; and a C-arm mounted on the robotic arm, the C-arm being operable to rotate about an axis of rotation, the radiation source and the radiation detector being disposed on the C-arm, such that the distance between the radiation source and the radiation detector is varied by a lifting device, the radiation source being operable to be moved longitudinally relative to the radiation detector, wherein the C-arm includes a first arm section and a second arm section, which are moved relative to one another by the lifting device, the radiation source being arranged on the first arm section and the radiation detector being arranged on the second arm section, and wherein the C-arm is pivotably mounted by one of the first and second arm sections, while the other of the first and second arm sections is the only arm section that is guided on or in the mounted arm section. 2. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lifting device is arranged adjacent to a pivot bearing of the C-arm. 3. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising guide rails that are operable to guide the first and second arm sections. 4. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lifting device is arranged in the interior of the first arm section, the second arm section, or a combination of both the first and second arm sections, the first arm section and second arm section being hollow at least in sections. 5. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lifting device includes a drive motor and a lifting mechanism that can be is operable to be actuated by the drive motor. 6. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the lifting mechanism includes a stationary cog wheel that is operable to be driven by the drive motor and a toothed rack arranged on the second arm section to be moved, with which the cog wheel meshes. 7. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the lifting mechanism includes a stationary threaded spindle that can is operable to be driven by the drive motor, a threaded nut connected to the second arm section to be moved running on the stationary threaded spindle. 8. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lifting device has a positioning cylinder that is operable to be actuated electrically, hydraulically or pneumatically. 9. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein the lifting device is coupled to the first and second arm sections. 10. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 9, further comprising guide rails that are operable to guide the first and second arm sections. 11. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first and second arm sections are hollow bodies. 12. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein the first and second arm sections further comprises a framework structure comprising stiffening struts on one or more open sides. 13. An X-ray apparatus comprising: a robotic arm; a radiation source; a radiation detector; and a C-arm mounted on the robotic arm, the C-arm being operable to rotate about an axis of rotation, the radiation source and the radiation detector being disposed on the C-arm, such that the distance between the radiation source and the radiation detector is varied by a lifting device, the radiation detector being operable to be moved longitudinally relative to the radiation source, wherein the C-arm includes only a first arm section and a second arm section, which are moved relative to one another by the lifting device, the radiation source being arranged on the first arm section and the radiation detector being arranged on the second arm section, and wherein the C-arm is pivotably mounted by one of the first and second arm sections, while the other arm section of the first and second arm sections is the only arm section guided on or in the mounted arm section. 14. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the lifting device is arranged adjacent to a pivot bearing of the C-arm. 15. The X-ray apparatus as claimed in claim 13, further comprising guide rails that are operable to guide the first and second arm sections. 