A method for providing a controlled force to a dynamic system includes applying a force to a first actuator, transmitting the force from the first actuator to a second actuator through a closed fluid path containing a captured volume of fluid, and providing, via the second actuator, a controlled force to the dynamic system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for providing a controlled force to a dynamic system, the method comprising: applying a first force to a first actuator; in response to the force applied to the first actuator, transmitting a second force from the first actuator to a second actuator through a closed fluid path containing a captured volume of fluid; providing, via the second actuator, a controlled force to the dynamic system; shaping the impedance presented to the dynamic system; and opening a path between the closed fluid path and one or more variable inertia and variable damping passages. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising using a baffle in the closed fluid path to shape the impedance presented to the dynamic system. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein shaping the impedance comprises: allowing fluid to pass through one or more apertures in the closed fluid path; and containing the fluid via a flexible membrane disposed to define a space in fluid communication with the closed fluid path via the one or more apertures. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein providing a controlled force to the dynamic system, via the second actuator, comprises providing a controlled force to an interface with the dynamic system. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein shaping the impedance presented to the dynamic system comprises shaping the impedance presented to the interface. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the interface corresponds to a human interface and the method further comprises coupling a portion of a limb of a human patient to the human interface. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the second force corresponds to pressure and the closed fluid path includes at least two separate captured volumes of fluid to transmit pressure from the first actuator to the second actuator and from the second actuator to the first actuator to provide bilateral transmission of pressure and force between the first and second actuators. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing the first actuator having a fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio characteristic which is different than a fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio characteristic of the second actuator to provide at least one of: speed amplification; speed reduction; force amplification; and force reduction. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein applying a force to the first actuator comprises at least one of: applying a force to the first actuator via a linear electromagnetic motor; applying a force to the first actuator via a linear hydraulic motor; and applying a force to the first actuator via a rotary electric motor. 10. A method of operating a fluid transmission system adapted to provide a controlled force to a dynamic system, method comprising: providing a plurality of force feedback and motion feedback control values from a controller to a drive system; in response to at least some of the plurality of force feedback and motion feedback control values, moving a first actuator with the drive system; transmitting a first force from the first actuator to a second actuator through a fluid path having one end coupled to the first actuator and having one end coupled to the second actuator and having a captured amount of fluid contained therein; controlling, within the fluid path, at least one of: a compliance characteristic of the fluid within the fluid path; a damping characteristic of the fluid within the fluid path; and an inertia characteristics of fluid within the fluid path; and in response to the force provided to the second actuator, providing the controlled force to an interface with the dynamic system, wherein transmitting a first force comprises transmitting pressure and wherein the fluid path is provided having at least two enclosed volumes of fluid contained therein to transmit pressure between the first and second actuators. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein providing a damping characteristic comprises disposing, in the fluid path, an impedance shaping element having a fluid therein and wherein transmitting the first force from the first actuator to a second actuator through the fluid path comprises transmitting the first force from the first actuator to a second actuator through the impedance shaping element disposed in the fluid path. 12. A method of operating a fluid transmission system coupled to a dynamic system, comprising: providing one or more force feedback and/or motion feedback control values from a controller to a drive system; in response to the one or more force feedback and/or motion feedback control values, moving a first actuator with the drive system; transmitting a force from the first actuator to a second actuator through at least one fluid path; and providing a variable damping force and a variable inertia in the at least one fluid path. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein in response to movement of the first actuator, the second actuator provides a controlled force to the dynamic system. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein transmitting the force from the first actuator to the second actuator through at least one fluid path further comprises using at least two enclosed volumes of fluid to transmit pressure from the first actuator to the second actuator and from the second actuator to the first actuator to improve bilateral transmission of pressure and force between the first and second actuators. 15. The method of claim 12 further comprising: selecting a fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio characteristic for the first actuator; and selecting a fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio characteristic for the second actuator. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising providing the first and second actuators having different fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio characteristics. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein providing a variable damping force comprises providing at least one orifice in the at least one fluid path to provide a variable damping force. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein providing a variable damping force comprises providing one or more baffles in the at least one fluid path to dampen variations in fluid forces resulting from movement of fluid within the at least one fluid path. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the one or more baffles are configured to form orifices through which fluid can flow within the at least one fluid path and wherein the size of the orifices are selected to provide a desired damping function. 20. The method of claim 12 wherein providing a variable damping force comprises disposing, in the fluid path, an impedance shaping element having a fluid therein and wherein transmitting the force from the first actuator to the second actuator through at least one fluid path comprises transmitting the force from the first actuator to the second actuator through the impedance shaping element disposed in the at least one fluid path. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the impedance shaping element has disposed therein first and second fluids through which force is transmitted from the first actuator to the second actuator. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the first fluid preferably has at least one fluid characteristic which is different than fluid characteristics of the second fluid and the first and second fluids are contained in separate compartments of the impedance shaping element. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein at least one of the first and second fluids corresponds to a compressible gas having a characteristic selected to control a compliance characteristic of the impedance shaping element. 24. The method of claim 12 further comprising changing the damping force by changing a size of one or more orifices that obstruct the fluid flow within the at least one fluid path. 25. The method of claim 12 further comprising: selecting a fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio of the first actuator; and selecting a fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio of the second actuator. 26. The method of claim 12 further comprising selecting the fluid-to-mechanical transformation ratio of the first and second actuators to provide at least one of: speed amplification; speed reduction; force amplification; or force reduction. 27. The method of claim 12 wherein moving the first actuator with the drive system comprises at least one of: applying a force to the first actuator via a linear electromagnetic motor; applying a force to the first actuator via a linear hydraulic motor; and applying a force to the first actuator via a rotary electric motor. 28. The method of claim 12 further comprising selecting a stiffness characteristic of an accumulator coupled to the at least one fluid path. 29. The method of claim 28 further comprising adjusting the stiffness characteristic of the accumulator. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein adjusting the stiffness characteristic of the accumulator comprises at least one of: adjusting a bladder coupled to the at least one fluid path; adjusting a volume of pressurized gas coupled to the at least one fluid path; coupling an open volume of water exposed to gravity to the at least one fluid path; adjusting a bellows coupled to the at least one fluid path; or adjusting a force provided by a spring coupled to the at least one fluid path. 31. A method of operating a fluid transmission system coupled to a dynamic system, comprising: providing one or more force feedback and/or motion feedback control values from a controller to a drive system; in response to the one or more force feedback and/or motion feedback control values, moving a first actuator with the drive system; transmitting a force from the first actuator to a second actuator through at least one fluid path; and providing a damping force in the at least one fluid path, wherein providing a damping force comprises shaping an impedance characteristic of the drive system as it appears from an interface disposed between one of the first or second actuators and the dynamic system. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein providing a damping force comprises shaping a coupling characteristic between the interface and the controller. 33. The method of claim 31 further comprising controlling at least one of: a compliance characteristic of the at least one fluid path; or an inertia characteristic of the at least one fluid path. 34. The method of claim 31 further comprising disposing an impedance shaper in the at least one fluid path to control at least one of: a compliance characteristic of the at least one fluid path; a damping characteristic of the at least one fluid path; or an inertia characteristic of fluid within the at least one fluid path. 