A case packing system concurrently accumulates a plurality of different product ensembles and sequentially packs cases thereof, generally by way of (a) concurrently accumulating a plurality of different product ensembles utilizing a plurality of product conveyer lines, each of which is adapted to separately convey distinct products to one or more transfer points; (b) sequentially transferring different accumulated product ensembles from the conveyer lines to a case-packer, the case-packer including a packing section as well as multiple magazines for receiving different case-blanks; (c) controlling transfer of the product ensembles to the case-packer and selection of the appropriate case-blank. Preferably, substantially continuous operation of the case-packer at a production rate higher than an accumulation rate of any individual product conveyer is maintained. A preferred construction employs a 4-axis robotic arm to select KDF cases and shuttle conveyers to transfer product from the conveyers to the case-packer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of concurrently accumulating a plurality of different product ensembles and sequentially packing cases thereof, comprising: (a) concurrently accumulating a plurality of different product ensembles utilizing a plurality of product conveyer lines, each of which is adapted to separately convey distinct products to one or more transfer points; (b) sequentially transferring different accumulated product ensembles from the conveyer lines to a case-packer, the case-packer including a packing section as well as multiple magazines for receiving different case-blanks; (c) controlling transfer of the product ensembles to the case-packer and selection of the appropriate case-blank; and (d) maintaining substantially continuous operation of the case-packer at a production rate higher than an accumulation rate of any individual product conveyer of the system. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the case-packer is operated at a production rate of at least 3 times that of any individual conveyor line. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the case-packer is operated at a production rate of at least 5 times that of any individual conveyor line. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the case-packer is operated at a production rate of at least 7 times that of any individual conveyor line. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the case-packer is operated at a production rate higher than the collective production rate of the plurality of conveyer lines. 6. The method according to claim 1, utilizing at least 3 product conveyor lines and wherein the case-packer includes at least 3 case-blank magazines. 7. The method according to claim 1, utilizing at least 5 product conveyor lines and wherein the case-packer includes at least 5 case-blank magazines. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the case-blank magazines are arranged over an arc of less than 300.degree.. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the case-blank magazines are arranged over an arc of 270.degree. or less. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the case-packer includes a robotic arm pivotally mounted in a central location with respect to the case-blank magazines. 11. A method of concurrently collecting a plurality of different product ensembles and sequentially packing cases thereof, comprising: (a) concurrently collecting a plurality of different product ensembles utilizing a plurality of product conveyer lines, each of which is adapted to separately convey distinct products to one or more transfer points on individual production rates; (b) sequentially transferring different product ensembles from the conveyer lines to a case-packer, the case-packer including a packing section as well as multiple magazines for receiving different case-blanks; (d) controlling transfer of the product ensembles to the case-packer and selection of the appropriate case-blank; and (d) operating the case-packer at a production rate higher than the collective individual production rates of the product conveyers of the system such that accumulated product in the system is depleted while the product conveyor lines are operating. 12. The method according to claim 11, utilizing at least 3 product conveyor lines and wherein the case-packer includes at least 3 case-blank magazines. 13. The method according to claim 11, utilizing at least 5 product conveyor lines and wherein the case-packer includes at least 5 case-blank magazines. 14. The method according to claim 11, wherein the case-blank magazines are arranged over an arc of less than 300.degree.. 15. The method according to claim 11, wherein the case-blank magazines are arranged over an arc of 270.degree. or less. 16. The method according to claim 11, wherein the case-packer includes a robotic arm pivotally mounted in a central location with respect to the case-blank magazines. 