Embodiments of the present invention provide a media library controller that can communicate with multiple physical libraries that are physically separate from each other. The media library controller can maintain a virtualized aggregate media library representing the physical media libraries with which it is in communication. From the physical media libraries, the media library controller can establish a virtual media library and associate a host with the virtual media library. The virtual media library can represent the portions of a physical media library to which the host is allowed access.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controller for controlling access to media libraries, said controller comprising: a first interface connect to a first transport medium; a second interface to connect to a second transport medium; a computer processor; a computer memory coupled to the computer processor, the computer memory storing a set of computer instructions executable by the computer processor to: associate hosts connected to the first transport medium with virtual media libraries that map to media library components at physically separate media libraries connected to the second transport medium; receive commands from hosts referencing virtual media slots and virtual media drives of associated virtual media libraries; forward commands to the appropriate physically separate media libraries based on the mapping, wherein if the virtual media slot and virtual drive referenced in a command map to a corresponding physical media slot and corresponding physical drive at different of the physically separate media libraries, forwarding the command comprises forwarding a first portion of the command to a physical robot at a first of the physically separate media libraries that contains the corresponding physical slot and forwarding a second portion of the command to a selected physical drive at the first of the physically separate media libraries. 2. The controller of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further executable to present to each of the plurality of hosts the virtual media library associated with that host. 3. The controller of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further executable to maintain a virtual aggregate media library mapped to physical media slots, robots and drives of the plurality of physical media libraries. 4. The controller of claim 3, wherein the virtual media libraries with which hosts are associated are portions of the virtual aggregate media library. 5. A system for controlling access to media libraries, comprising a tangible computer readable storage medium storing computer instructions executable by a computer processor to: associate hosts with virtual media libraries that map to media library components at physically separate media libraries; receive commands from hosts referencing virtual media slots and virtual media drives of associated virtual media libraries; forward commands to the appropriate physically separate media libraries based on the mapping, wherein if the virtual media slot and virtual drive referenced in a command map to a corresponding physical media slot and corresponding physical drive at different of the physically separate media libraries, forwarding the command comprises forwarding a first portion of the command to a physical robot at a first of the physically separate media libraries that contains the corresponding physical slot and forwarding a second portion of the command to a selected physical drive at the first of the physically separate media libraries. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the instructions are further executable to present to the hosts the virtual media libraries that map to physical media slots, drives and robots at a plurality of media libraries. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein the instructions are further executable to maintain a virtual aggregate media library mapped to physical media slots, robots and drives of the plurality of physical media libraries including the first and second physical media libraries. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein the virtual media libraries with which hosts are associated are portions of the virtual aggregate media library. 9. A method of controlling access to media libraries, comprising: associating at a media library controller hosts with virtual media libraries representing components at physically separate media libraries that cannot pass media to each other; receiving commands from hosts referencing virtual media slots and virtual media drives of associated virtual media libraries; forward commands to appropriate physically separate media libraries based on the mapping, wherein if the virtual media slot and virtual drive referenced in a command map to a corresponding physical media slot and corresponding physical drive at different of the physically separate media libraries, forwarding the command comprises forwarding a first portion of the command to a physical robot at a first of the physically separate media libraries that contains the corresponding physical slot and forwarding a second portion of the command to a selected physical drive at the first of the physically separate media libraries. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising continuing to redirect commands from the corresponding physical drive to the selected physical drive until a tape cartridge is removed from the selected physical drive. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: associating each host in a plurality of hosts with a virtual media library; presenting to each host the virtual media library with which that host is associated. 12. The method of claim 9, further comprising maintaining at the media library controller a virtual aggregate media library mapped to the physical media slots, robots and drives of the plurality of physical media libraries including the first and second physical media libraries. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the virtual media libraries with which hosts are associated are portions of the virtual aggregate media library. 14. A non-transitory computer readable medium for controlling access to media libraries, comprising instructions for: associating at a media library controller hosts with virtual media libraries representing components at physically separate media libraries that cannot pass media to each other; receiving commands from hosts referencing virtual media slots and virtual media drives of associated virtual media libraries; forward commands to appropriate physically separate media libraries based on the mapping, wherein if the virtual media slot and virtual drive referenced in a command map to a corresponding physical media slot and corresponding physical drive at different of the physically separate media libraries, forwarding the command comprises forwarding a first portion of the command to a physical robot at a first of the physically separate media libraries that contains the corresponding physical slot and forwarding a second portion of the command to a selected physical drive at the first of the physically separate media libraries. 15. The computer readable medium of claim 14, further comprising continuing to redirect commands from the corresponding physical drive to the selected physical drive until a tape cartridge is removed from the selected physical drive. 16. The computer readable medium of claim 14, further comprising instructions for: associating each host in a plurality of hosts with a virtual media library; and presenting to each host the virtual media library with which that host is associated. 17. The computer readable medium of claim 14, further comprising instructions for maintaining at the media library controller a virtual aggregate media library mapped to the physical media slots, robots and drives of the plurality of physical media libraries including the first and second physical media libraries. 18. The computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the virtual media libraries with which hosts are associated are portions of the virtual aggregate media library. 