A method for fabricating a product, such as an animatronic character, with artificial skin. The method includes providing data defining an exterior surface geometry of the product. A base geometry model of the product is generated based on the exterior surface geometry data, which in turn is used to fabricate a prototype of the product. Then, an exterior skin mold is formed using the product prototype mounted on an alignment block. The method includes fabricating an inner support structure based on the base geometry model having an exterior geometry smaller than the 3D base geometry model by the thickness of the exterior skin. The inner support structure is positioned within the mold with the inner support structure mounted upon the alignment block, which is received in the mold. The product is formed by pouring material for an exterior skin layer into the mold and over the inner support structure.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for fabricating a product with an artificial skin system, comprising: forming an exterior skin mold using a product prototype mounted on an alignment block, wherein a recess matching the alignment block is formed in the exterior skin mold; fabricating an inner support structure; positioning the inner support structure within the exterior skin mold, wherein the inner support structure is mounted upon the alignment block and the alignment block is received in the matching recess in the exterior skin mold to align the inner support structure with the exterior skin mold; and filling material for an exterior skin layer into the mold to occupy a cavity between the inner support structure and the exterior skin mold. 2. The method of claim 1, further including creating the prototype of the product based on a 3D base geometry model of at least one exterior surface of the product and wherein based on the 3D base geometry model, wherein the fabricating of the inner support structure is based on the 3D geometry model and wherein the inner support structure has an exterior geometry selected to be smaller than the 3D base geometry model by an offset distance. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising prior to the creating of the prototype: providing a set of digital data in memory that defines a geometry of the exterior surface of the product and a set of digital data in the memory defining a model of the alignment block; and with a modeling tool running on a computer, generating the 3D base geometry model of the product based on the exterior surface geometry data set, wherein the 3D base geometry model is configured for mounting on the model of the alignment block and wherein the alignment block is fabricated based on the model of the alignment block. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the forming of the exterior skin mold comprises first forming an initial mold using the product prototype, creating a sculpt assembly in the initial mold, modifying the sculpt assembly by sculpting to add or alter features, and second forming the exterior skin mold using the modified sculpt assembly. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the fabricating of the inner support structure comprises modeling with the modeling tool a structural shell with an exterior shape at least partially matching the 3D base geometry accounting for the offset distance, the structural shell comprising an outer wall defining an interior void space. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the fabricating of the inner support structure further comprises designing with the modeling tool at least one inner skin component positioned in an opening in the outer wall of the structural shell and forming the inner skin component from an elastomeric material to destructively bond with the material of the exterior skin layer during or after the filling step. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the forming of the inner skin component comprises creating a model of a mold for the inner skin component with the modeling tool and wherein the mold and the structural shell are manufactured by providing the mold model and structural shell model to a rapid prototype machine that is operated to fabricate the inner skin component mold and the structural shell. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the fabricating of the inner support structure further comprises providing a drive mechanism configured for mating with the inner skin component and for positioning in the void space of the structural shell and wherein the fabricating of the inner support structure comprises bonding the inner skin component to the structural shell. 9. The method of claim 2, wherein the offset distance is selected to define a thickness of the exterior skin layer and wherein the inner support structure comprises at least one inner skin component bonding with the material of the exterior skin layer and having a differing hardness than the exterior skin layer upon solidification of the exterior skin layer. 10. A computer-based method for fabricating an object with an exterior skin, comprising: storing in memory a 3D base geometry model defining surface geometry of the object and a model of an inner support structure, wherein the inner support structure comprises a structural shell; fabricating the inner support structure including the structural shell based on the inner support structure model; fabricating an exterior skin mold based on the 3D base geometry model; and forming the exterior skin over the inner support structure by positioning the inner support structure in the exterior skin mold and filling the exterior skin mold with one or more materials, wherein the inner support structure further comprises an inner skin component positioned on an exterior surface of the structural shell. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more materials comprise an elastomer and wherein the inner skin component is fabricated based on the inner support structure model. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the inner skin component is formed of an elastomer with a differing hardness than the formed exterior skin and wherein an inner surface of the exterior skin is destructively bonded to the inner skin component. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the storing step comprises scanning the surface geometry of the object and forming the 3D base geometry model from results of the scanning and wherein the inner support structure model is generated with a computer modeling module run on a computer and offsetting the inner support structure outer surfaces from the 3D base geometry model. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the 3D base geometry model is positioned on a model of an alignment block by the computer modeling module and wherein the exterior skin mold includes a recess for receiving the alignment block and the fabricated inner support structure is placed on the alignment block prior to positioning in the exterior skin mold. 15. A method of fabricating an object covered with a multi-hardness skin system, comprising: creating a 3D computer model defining surface geometry of the object; modeling an inner support structure for the object based on the 3D computer model of the object, the inner support structure model comprising a structural shell and a backing component on an exterior surface of the structural shell; fabricating the inner support structure including molding the backing component with an outer surface using a mold fabricated based on the inner support structure model, the molded backing component comprising an elastic material with a first hardness; fabricating an exterior skin mold for the object based on the 3D computer model of the object; positioning the fabricated inner support structure within the exterior component mold; and filling the exterior skin mold with a material. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising allowing the material to harden to form the exterior skin bonded to an outer surface of the backing component, wherein the exterior skin has a second hardness that differs from the first hardness. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the creating of the 3D computer model comprises first laser scanning exterior portions of the robot head and second operating a 3D modeling module to process data from the laser scanning to form the 3D computer model. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the modeling of the inner support structure comprises using the 3D modeling module to form a model with similar exterior surface topology as the robot head and offset a distance of about a thickness of the exterior skin from the 3D computer model of the object. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the modeling of the inner support structure includes modeling with the 3D modeling module a drive mechanism for mating with a force receiving component, the force receiving component being provided on the exterior surface of the shell and mating with the backing component during assembly of the inner support structure. 20. The method of claim 15, further comprising mounting the backing component onto the shell prior to the positioning of the inner support structure within the exterior skin mold, wherein the exterior skin extends over the backing component and at least partially over the rigid shell and wherein the inner support structure is mounted onto a location element prior to positioning in the exterior skin mold, the location element mating with a recess in the exterior skin mold to align the inner support structure within a cavity of the mold. 