A media cartridge including a first substantially rectangular surface, a second substantially rectangular surface, and one or more side surfaces, where the first substantially rectangular surface and the second substantially rectangular surface are connected by the one or more side surfaces. Further, a disk drive assembly is enclosed by the first substantially rectangular surface, the second substantially rectangular surface, and the one or more side surfaces. In addition, the media cartridge includes a cooling component is configured to cool the disk drive assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A media cartridge comprising: a first substantially rectangular surface; a second substantially rectangular surface; a plurality of side surfaces, wherein the first substantially rectangular surface and the second substantially rectangular surface are connected by the plurality of side surfaces; a first disk drive assembly enclosed by the first substantially rectangular surface, the second substantially rectangular surface, and the plurality of side surfaces; a second disk drive assembly enclosed by the first substantially rectangular surface, the second substantially rectangular surface, and the plurality of side surfaces; a first cooling component configured to cool the first disk drive assembly; a printed circuit board (PCB), operatively connected to the first disk drive assembly, the second disk drive assembly, and the first cooling component, comprising: a power interface component configured to provide, from an external reader, power to the first disk drive assembly, the second disk drive assembly, and the first cooling component; a data interface component configured to: provide, to the external reader, access to data stored on the first disk drive assembly and the second disk drive assembly; and provide, to the external reader, control of the first cooling component. 2. The media cartridge of claim 1, wherein the power interface component carries data and control signals. 3. The media cartridge of claim 1, wherein the power interface component receives power via inductive coupling. 4. The media cartridge of claim 1, wherein the data interface component is a wireless transceiver. 5. The media cartridge of claim 1, wherein the data interface component is an optical transceiver, wherein the one of the plurality of side surfaces comprises at least one optical aperture aligned with the optical transceiver. 6. The media cartridge of claim 1, wherein the power interface component extends to an external surface of one of the plurality of side surfaces. 7. The media cartridge of claim 1, wherein the first cooling component comprises a fan. 8. The media cartridge of claim 1, further comprising: a second cooling component, wherein the second cooling component comprises a vent. 9. The media cartridge of claim 8, wherein the vent is located on a surface selected from a group consisting of the first substantially rectangular surface, the second substantially rectangular surface, and one of the plurality of side surfaces. 10. The media cartridge of claim 1, wherein a bumper is disposed on an edge formed by a portion of at least one of the plurality of side surfaces. 11. The media cartridge of claim 1, wherein the media cartridge is configured to be inserted in one of a plurality of media cartridge store cells within an automated storage library. 