A method of controlling a temperature of a test slot in a disk drive testing system includes regulating temperature changes of a subject test slot based on one or more operating conditions of one or more other test slots neighboring the subject test slot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling temperature of test slots in a disk drive testing system, the method comprising: controlling at least two subject disk drive test slots to have different temperatures; regulating temperature changes of a subject test slot based on one or more operating conditions of one or more other test slots neighboring the subject test slot. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein regulating temperature changes of the subject test slot comprises: comparing a request for a temperature change for the subject test slot with one or more operating temperatures of the one or more other, neighboring test slots; and inhibiting the requested temperature change based, at least in part, on the one or more operating temperatures of the one or more other, neighboring test slots. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the request for the temperature change comprises a requested temperature setting and wherein comparing the request for the temperature change with the one or more operating temperatures of the one or more other, neighboring test slots comprises: calculating an average operating temperature of two or more test slots neighboring the subject test slot; and determining a difference between the requested temperature setting and the calculated average operating temperature. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining whether the difference between the requested temperature setting and the calculated average operating temperature is greater than a predetermined offset value; and upon determining that the difference is greater than the predetermined offset value, limiting a temperature change of the subject test slot to be equal to the calculated average operating temperature plus the predetermined offset value. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising queuing a request to change a temperature setting of the subject test slot to the requested temperature setting. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising providing feedback indicating that the temperature change for the subject test slot is limited. 7. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining whether the difference between the requested temperature setting and the calculated average operating temperature is greater than a predetermined offset value; and upon determining that the difference is not greater than the predetermined offset value, effecting the requested temperature change. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising determining whether the other, neighboring test slots have a queued request for a temperature change, and upon determining that one of the other, neighboring test slots have a queued request for a temperature change, servicing the queued request. 9. A disk drive testing system comprising: at least one test rack comprising: multiple test slots, each test slot being configured to receive a disk drive for testing; and test electronics in electrical communication with the test slots and configured to adjust operating temperatures of at least two test slots to have different temperatures, the test electronics further configured to regulate changes to the operating temperature of each test slot based, at least in part, on an operating condition of at least one other one of the test slots. 10. The disk drive testing system of claim 9, wherein the test electronics are configured to regulate changes to the operating temperature of each test slot based, at least in part, on the operating temperature of at least one neighboring one of the test slots. 11. The disk drive testing system of claim 9, wherein the test electronics are configured to regulate changes to the operating temperature of at least one of the test slots based, at least in part, on the operating temperatures of at least two or more neighboring ones of the test slots. 12. The disk drive testing system of claim 9, wherein the test slots each comprise at least one temperature sensor electrically connected to the test electronics, and wherein the test electronics are configured to regulate the operating temperatures of the test slots based, at least in part, on signals received from the temperature sensors. 13. The disk drive testing system of claim 12, wherein the temperature sensors are each operable to measure the operating temperature of an associated one of the test slots. 14. The disk drive testing system of claim 9, further comprising: multiple passive components each associated with a corresponding one of the test slots and each in electrical communication with the test electronics, wherein the test electronics are configured to regulate operating temperatures of the test slots by controlling flows of electrical current to the passive components. 15. The disk drive testing system of claim 9, wherein the test electronics are configured to regulate the operating temperatures of the test slots based, at least in part, on a computer executable test routine. 