An obstacle avoidance system having an ultrasonic sensor is provided. The system includes an ultrasonic sensor array having at least one ultrasonic sensor for measuring a distance to an obstacle using an ultrasonic wave, an orientation tracker for tracking a proceeding direction, an controller for receiving distance data and orientation data from the ultrasonic sensor array and the orientation tracker, respectively, and for determining an avoidance orientation based on the distance data and the orientation data, and an avoidance orientation guiding unit for informing the pedestrian of the avoidance orientation determined by the controller. The controller stores distance data for a certain number of previous frames and, if the controller determines that distance data of a first frame is noise, the distance data of the first frame is replaced with an average between the distance data of a frame prior to the first frame and the distance data of a frame after the first frame. Also, the controller calculates an amount of orientation change for a second frame using the orientation data of the orientation tracker and regards the distance data of the second frame as noise, if the calculated amount of orientation change is greater than a threshold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An obstacle avoidance system comprising: an ultrasonic sensor array having at least one ultrasonic sensor, for measuring a distance to an obstacle using an ultrasonic wave; an orientation tracker for tracking a proceeding direction; a controller for receiving distance data and orientation data from the ultrasonic sensor array and the orientation tracker, respectively, and determining an avoidance orientation based on the distance data and the orientation data; and an avoidance orientation guiding unit for informing the avoidance orientation determined by the controller, wherein the controller stores distance data for a certain number of previous frames and, if determining that the distance data of a first frame is noise, replaces the distance data of the first frame with an average between the distance data of a frame prior to the first frame and the distance data of a frame after the first frame, wherein the controller calculates an amount of orientation change for a second frame using the orientation data of the orientation tracker and regards the distance data of the second frame as noise, if the calculated amount of orientation change is greater than a threshold. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller determines that the distance data of the first frame is noise if the absolute value of the slope of the distance data of the first frame is equal to or greater than a certain reference value. 3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the avoidance orientation guiding unit informs the avoidance orientation through a voice signal or vibration. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the avoidance orientation guiding unit informs the avoidance orientation through a voice signal or vibration. 