A method of maintaining a status of a product item is provided. The product item includes an associated interface surface which has coded data including a plurality of coded data portions indicative of the product item's identity. The method includes, in a sensing device, sensing at least one coded data portion, generating indicating data indicative of the product item identity therefrom, and transferring the indicating data to a computer system. The computer system is responsive to the indicating data to update product status information stored in a data store. The interface surface includes at least one region having visible markings representing a respective product item status. The method including, in the sensing device, sensing coded data in the region and generating therefrom indicating data indicative of the respective product item status. The computer system is responsive to the indicating data to update the status information using the product item status.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of maintaining a status of a product item, the product item including an associated interface surface, the interface surface including at least one region having visible markings representing a respective product item status and having disposed thereon or therein coded data including a plurality of coded data portions, each coded data portion being indicative of an identity of the product item, the method including: sensing by a sensing device at least one coded data portion; generating by the sensing device, using the sensed coded data portion, indicating data indicative of the product item identity; transferring by the sensing device the indicating data to a computer system; updating by the computer system an inventory stored in a data store using the product item identity, the inventory including at least an indication of a predetermined number of product items of respective product types; sensing by the sensing device coded data provided in the region; generating by the sensing device, using the sensed coded data, indicating data indicative of the respective product item status; transferring by the sensing device the indicating data to the computer system; and updating the inventory using the respective product item status, the updating steps including the sub-steps of: determining , using the indicating data, the product item type; determining the number of product items of the respective product item type; comparing the number of product items to the predetermined number; and in response to the comparison, at least one of: providing an indication of the product item type on a shopping list; updating the inventory; and taking no action. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes, in the sensing device: selecting a status mode; and generating indicating data indicative of the selected status mode. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the method includes, selecting the status mode by at least one of: using an input provided on the sensing device; and sensing a further interface surface, the interface surface including coded data disposed thereon or therein, the sensing device being responsive to the coded data to select the sensing mode. 4. The method of claim 2, the method including, in the computer system: receiving the indicating data; generating, using the received indicating data: identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; and mode data indicative of the status mode; updating, using the identity data and the mode data, the inventory. 5. The method of claim 1, the method including, in the computer system: selecting a status mode; receiving the indicating data; generating, using the received indicating data, identity data indicative of the identity of the product item; updating, using the identity data and the mode data, the inventory. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the method includes, selecting the status mode by at least one of: using an input provided on the computer system; and in the computer system: receiving mode indicating data from a sensing device, the sensing device being responsive to sensing of coded data provided on a respective mode interface surface to generate indicating data indicative of the status mode; generating, using the received indicating data, mode data indicative of the status mode; and using the mode data to select the status mode. 