A parking-structure test system has motherboards that test memory modules. The motherboards are not stationary but are placed inside movable trays that move along conveyors. An unloader removes tested memory modules from test sockets on the motherboards, and a loader inserts untested memory modules into the motherboards using a robotic arm. A conveyor carries the motherboards from the loader to a parking and testing structure. An elevator raises or lowers the motherboards to different parking levels in the parking and testing structure. The motherboards move from the elevator to test stations on the parking level. A retractable connector from the test station makes contact with a motherboard connector to power up the motherboard, which then tests the memory modules. Test results are communicated from the test station to a host controller, which instructs the loader-unloader to sort the tested memory modules once the motherboard returns via the elevator and conveyors.
Claims We claim: 1. A multi-level test system for testing memory modules on movable motherboards comprising: a plurality of motherboards, each motherboard in the plurality of motherboards being a main board for a computer using memory modules as a memory; test sockets on the plurality of motherboards, the test sockets for receiving memory modules for testing; a loader-unloader for inserting memory modules into test sockets on motherboards in the plurality of motherboards when the motherboards are at a loading station; a parking-testing structure having a plurality of parking levels, each parking level for temporarily holding a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards during testing of the memory modules in the test sockets; a plurality of test stations, for connecting to motherboards in the plurality of motherboards and for activating the motherboards to test the memory modules inserted into the test sockets on the motherboards; wherein each parking level in the plurality of parking levels has a test station in the plurality of test stations that connects to a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards that is currently parked on each parking level; a conveyor for moving the plurality of motherboards from the loading station to the parking-testing structure, and for moving the plurality of motherboards from the parking-testing structure to the loading station after testing by the plurality of test stations, whereby the memory modules are inserted into motherboards that are moved by the conveyor to the parking-testing structure for testing, and wherein the conveyor moves motherboards back to the loading station after testing. 2. The multi-level test system of claim 1 further comprising: movable trays that are placed on the conveyor, each movable tray for holding a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards, each movable tray moving along the conveyor to transport the motherboard from the loading station to the parking-testing structure, and to return the motherboard to the loading station after testing. 3. The multi-level test system of claim 2 wherein the movable trays electrically insulate the plurality of motherboards from the conveyor during testing by the plurality of test stations. 4. The multi-level test system of claim 1 further comprising: test adaptor boards, each coupled to a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards, the test adaptor boards having the test sockets for receiving memory modules for testing by the motherboards, each test adaptor board for electrically connecting a memory module inserted into a test socket to a motherboard attached to the test adaptor board, the motherboard using the memory module inserted into the test socket as a portion of the memory of the motherboard. 5. The multi-level test system of claim 4 wherein the motherboards have a component side and a solder side, the component side having integrated circuits mounted thereon; wherein the test adaptor boards are mounted to the solder side of the motherboards. 6. The multi-level test system of claim 1 further comprising a parking structure system interface, coupled to the plurality of test stations in the parking-testing structure, for commanding test stations in the plurality of test stations to apply power to activate motherboards to test memory modules inserted into the test sockets and for receiving test results from the motherboards; a main system interface for controlling the loader-unloader to sort memory modules based on the test results; a network between the parking structure system interface and the main system interface, for communicating the test results from the parking-testing structure to the loader-unloader; wherein the main system interface stores the test results while the motherboard is being returned from the test station to the loader-unloader after testing by the test station. 7. The multi-level test system of claim 6 wherein the loader-unloader further comprises: a robotic arm, responsive to commands from the main system interface, for inserting memory modules into the test sockets on motherboards; a serial-presence-detect electrically-erasable programmable read-only memory (SPD-EEPROM) programmer for programming manufacturer information into a SPD-EEPROM on the memory modules before insertion into the test sockets. 8. The multi-level test system of claim 1 wherein the parking-testing structure further comprises: an elevator for raising and lowering a motherboard to the plurality of parking levels of the parking-testing structure; and an input level of the elevator, the input level coupled to the conveyor between the loading station and the elevator. 9. The multi-level test system of claim 8 wherein the conveyor further comprises: an input conveyor line between the loading station and the elevator; an output conveyor line between the elevator and the loading station. 10. The multi-level test system of claim 9 wherein the input conveyor line and the output conveyor line are coupled to the elevator at different levels of the elevator, whereby the input conveyor line and the output conveyor line are on two different levels. 11. The multi-level test system of claim 9 further comprising a plurality of parking conveyors on the plurality of parking levels of the parking-testing structure, a parking conveyor for moving a motherboard from the elevator to the test station before testing, and for moving the motherboard from the test station to the elevator after testing. 12. The multi-level test system of claim 2 wherein each test station in the plurality of test stations further comprises: a retractable connector for extending to make electrical contact with a motherboard connector on a motherboard. 13. A moving-motherboard memory-module tester comprising: a plurality of motherboards for a personal computer, a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards for executing a test program to test a memory module inserted into a test socket on the motherboard; a Module-Under-Test (MUT) loader-unloader having a robotic device that removes a tested memory module from the test socket on the motherboard, and that inserts a memory module into the test socket on the motherboard when the motherboard is located at the MUT loader-unloader; an input highway that moves the motherboard away from the MUT loader-unloader after the memory module has been inserted into the test socket; an output highway that moves the motherboard toward the MUT loader-unloader after the memory module in the motherboard has been tested; an elevator that receives the motherboard from the input highway, and that returns motherboards to the output highway, the elevator raising and lowering the motherboards to a plurality of parking levels; a parking-testing structure having the plurality of parking levels accessible by the elevator, each parking level having a testing conveyor that receives motherboards from the elevator; a plurality of test stations in the parking-testing structure, each test station on a parking level having a parking connector that connects to a motherboard connector on the motherboard when parked at the parking level, the parking connector applying power to the motherboard to activate the motherboard to test the memory module in the test socket; and a network connection to the plurality of test stations for communicating test results from the plurality of test stations testing the plurality of motherboards, wherein the test results control the MUT loader-unloader to sort memory modules when the robotic device removes the tested memory modules, wherein test results indicating that the memory module failed testing are sorted into a failed group of memory modules while test results indicating that the memory module passed testing are sorted into a passing group of memory modules by the robotic device, whereby memory modules are transported from the MUT loader-unloader to the plurality of test stations by the input highway, the elevator, the testing conveyor, and the output highway that move the plurality of motherboards between test stations and the MUT loader-unloader. 14. The moving-motherboard memory-module tester of claim 13 further comprising: a plurality of movable trays that carry the plurality of motherboards along the input highway, the elevator, the testing conveyor, and the output highway, whereby motherboards are carried by the plurality of movable trays. 15. The moving-motherboard memory-module tester of claim 14 further comprising: a test adaptor board mounted to each motherboard, wherein the test socket is mounted on the test adaptor board, the test socket for receiving a memory module inserted by the robotic device. 16. The moving-motherboard memory-module tester of claim 14 wherein the parking-testing structure comprises at least 5 parking levels and at least 10 test stations, wherein the parking-testing structure tests at least 10 motherboards in parallel. 17. The moving-motherboard memory-module tester of claim 16 wherein the plurality of parking levels in the parking-testing structure are located vertically above each other, whereby floor space is minimized. 18. The moving-motherboard memory-module tester of claim 13 wherein each test station further comprises: a test-station connector that makes electrical contact with a motherboard connector on the motherboard; wherein power is applied through the test-station connector and the motherboard connector by the test station when testing the memory module on the motherboard. 19. A multiple-motherboard parking-testing structure memory tester comprising: host system means for controlling testing of memory modules on multiple motherboards and for controlling movement of motherboards by conveyors; test socket means for receiving a memory module for testing; conveyed motherboard means, controlled by the host system means, for executing a test program on a memory module inserted into the test socket means; test adaptor board means, mounted on the conveyed motherboard means, for electrically connecting the test socket means to a memory bus means on the conveyed motherboard means; wherein the multiple-motherboard parking-testing structure memory tester has a plurality of the conveyed motherboard means, each conveyed motherboard means having an attached test adaptor board means with a test socket means, each conveyed motherboard means for executing the test program on a different memory module in parallel with other motherboard means; robotic means, controlled by the host system means, for grasping a memory module and inserting the memory module into the test socket means, the robotic means also for grasping and removing the memory module from the test socket means after completion of the test program, and moving the memory module to an output means for storing tested memory modules when the conveyed motherboard means indicates to the host system means that the memory module has passed the test program; test station means for applying power to the conveyed motherboard means to activate the conveyed motherboard means to test the memory module inserted into the test socket means; parking-testing structure means for parking a plurality of the conveyed motherboard means on a plurality of parking levels, each parking level having at least one test stations means, wherein the plurality of parking levels overlap each other to occupy a same floor space; wherein the plurality of parking levels and the test station means are not accessible by the robotic means; elevator means for raising an lowering the conveyed motherboard means on an elevator table to the plurality of parking levels in the parking-testing structure means; and conveying highway means, coupled between the elevator means and a loading station that is accessible by the robotic means, for moving the conveyed motherboard means from the loading station to the elevator means before testing, and for moving the conveyed motherboard means from the elevator means to the loading station after testing, whereby motherboards are moved from the loading station to a parking level in the parking-testing structure means before testing, and moved from the parking-testing structure means back to the loading station after testing. 20. The multiple-motherboard parking-testing structure memory tester of claim 19 further comprising: tray means for holding the conveyed motherboard means during transport between the loading station and the test station means. 