A calibration apparatus which estimates a calibration parameter of an image acquisition apparatus, comprises a calibration jig which includes at least two planes and in which calibration markers having known three-dimensional positions are arranged in each plane based on a predetermined rule. The calibration apparatus further comprises a calibration marker recognition section configured to measure and number in-image positions of the calibration markers in at least one image obtained by photographing the calibration jig by the image acquisition apparatus, and a parameter estimate section configured to estimate the calibration parameters of the image acquisition apparatus by the use of the three-dimensional position and the in-image position of the calibration markers numbered by the calibration marker recognition section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A calibration apparatus comprising: a calibration jig comprising: at least two planes, a plurality of calibration markers having known three-dimensional positions, the plurality of calibration markers being arranged in the at least two planes based on a predetermined rule, and at least one of a plane boundary, a plane boundary group, and a plane boundary curve between the at least two planes in which the calibration markers are arranged, capable of specifying a plane in which a calibration marker is arranged, wherein the at least one of a plane boundary, a plane boundary group, and a plane boundary curve is in a color different from a color of the background of the at least two planes; a calibration marker recognition section configured to recognize in at least one image of the calibration jig obtained by an image acquisition apparatus the at least one of a plane boundary, a plane boundary group, and a plane boundary curve, to recognize in the at least one image different planes in the at least two planes as different regions using the recognized at least one of a plane boundary, a plane boundary group, and a plane boundary curve, and to measure and number in-image positions of the plurality of calibration markers in the at least one image; and a parameter estimate section configured to estimate one or more calibration parameters of the image acquisition apparatus based on the known three-dimensional positions of the plurality of calibration markers and the measured in-image positions of the calibration markers numbered by the calibration marker recognition section. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the calibration jig includes the calibration markers arranged in such a manner that the calibration markers can be numbered based on the predetermined rule. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the calibration jig includes three planes which cross at right angles to one another. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein at least two types of calibration markers are arranged in each plane in which the plurality of calibration markers are arranged, and the calibration marker recognition section is configured to measure and number in-image positions of the plurality of calibration markers in each plane based on the arrangement relation of the at least two types of calibration markers. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the calibration jig includes at least two types of calibration markers which have different sizes. 6. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the calibration jig includes at least two types of calibration markers which have different colors. 7. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the calibration jig includes at least two types of markers which have different shapes. 8. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein in the calibration jig, at least one type of the calibration markers is disposed in the vicinity of the origin at which three planes intersect with one another. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a moving section configured to relatively move one of the image acquisition apparatus and the calibration jig in order to photograph a plurality of images in which the calibration jig is reflected from multiple viewpoints. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the calibration marker recognition section performs numbering the calibration markers in each plane of the calibration jig based on a predetermined order, uses information of an image position of a vicinity marker already numbered to predict the position of the marker to be numbered next in the image, and performs one of selecting an optimal candidate from marker candidates detected in accordance with the prediction and judging that the optimal candidate does not exist. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the calibration marker recognition section uses a distance from the prediction position in the selection of the optimum candidate. 12. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the calibration marker recognition section uses a distance from the prediction position to judge that the optimal candidate does not exist, and judges that the optimal candidate does not exist, when the distance exceeds a predetermined threshold value. 13. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the calibration marker recognition section spirally numbers the calibration markers. 14. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a display section configured to superimpose and display a recognition result of the calibration marker recognized by the calibration marker recognition section upon one of the image photographed by the image acquisition apparatus and another image. 15. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein all the calibration markers of at least one type of a plurality of types of calibration markers arranged on the calibration jig are reflected in the image of the calibration jig photographed by the image acquisition apparatus. 16. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein all the calibration markers of at least one type of a plurality of types of calibration markers arranged on the calibration jig are reflected in a middle of the image of the calibration jig photographed by the image acquisition apparatus. 17. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the image acquisition apparatus is image acquisition apparatus including a stereo adapter, and at least one of the images of the calibration jigs photographed by the image acquisition apparatus including the stereo adapter is photographed in such a manner that all the calibration markers of at least one type of a plurality of types of calibration markers arranged on the calibration jig are arranged in a middle of the image. 18. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the image of the calibration jig photographed by the image acquisition apparatus is photographed in such a manner that a part of one of a boundary and a boundary curve of a plurality of planes constituting the calibration jig is positioned in a middle of the image. 19. A calibration apparatus comprising: a calibration jig comprising: at least two planes, a plurality of calibration markers having known three-dimensional positions, the plurality of calibration markers being arranged in the at least two planes based on a predetermined rule, and at least one of a plane boundary, a plane boundary group, and a plane boundary curve between the at least two planes in which the calibration markers are arranged, capable of specifying a plane in which a calibration marker is arranged, wherein the at least one of a plane boundary, a plane boundary group, and a plane boundary curve is in a color different from a color of the background of the at least two planes; calibration marker recognition means for recognizing in at least one image of the calibration jig obtained by an image acquisition apparatus the at least one of a plane boundary, a plane boundary group, and a plane boundary curve, for recognizing in the at least one image different planes in the at least two a planes as different regions using the recognized at least one of a plane boundary, a plane boundary group, and a plane boundary curve, and for measuring and numbering in-image positions of the plurality of calibration markers in the at least one image; and parameter estimate means for estimating one or more calibration parameters of the image acquisition means based on the known three-dimensional positions of the plurality of calibration markers and the measured in-image positions of the plurality of calibration markers numbered by the calibration marker recognition means. 20. The calibration apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least two kinds of calibration markers which are different in at least one of size, shape and color exist in each plane of the calibration jig, and the calibration marker recognition section is configured to label the plurality of calibration markers based on a positional relationship of the calibration markers. 21. The calibration apparatus according to claim 19, wherein at least two kinds of calibration markers which are different in at least one of size, shape and color exist in each plane of the calibration jig, and the calibration marker recognition means labels the plurality of calibration markers based on a positional relationship of the calibration markers. 