A mobile robot guest for interacting with a human resident performs a room-traversing search procedure prior to interacting with the resident, and may verbally query whether the resident being sought is present. Upon finding the resident, the mobile robot may facilitate a teleconferencing session with a remote third party, or interact with the resident in a number of ways. For example, the robot may carry on a dialogue with the resident, reinforce compliance with medication or other schedules, etc. In addition, the robot incorporates safety features for preventing collisions with the resident; and the robot may audibly announce and/or visibly indicate its presence in order to avoid becoming a dangerous obstacle. Furthermore, the mobile robot behaves in accordance with an integral privacy policy, such that any sensor recording or transmission must be approved by the resident.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot system comprising: a mobile robot comprising: a robot body; a drive system disposed on the robot body, the drive system comprising: first, second, and third omni-directional wheels rotatably mounted on the robot body; and motors coupled to and driving the omni-directional wheels; a controller in communication with the drive system; a neck rotatably coupled to the robot body; a head coupled to the neck; at least one camera in communication with the controller; and a rechargeable power source carried by the robot body and powering the motors, controller, and the at least one camera; wherein the controller is configured to maneuver the robot over a surface at least partially using a signal from the at least one camera; and a dock comprising: a portion configured to receive the robot; and a charging unit disposed on the dock and configured to establish electrical connection with the rechargeable power source of the received robot; wherein the dock further comprises a wireless transceiver capable of communicating TCP/IP transmissions over a local wireless protocol, a wired Ethernet connector for communicating TCP/IP transmissions over a local wired Ethernet accessing the Internet, and an access point circuit for transferring TCP/IP transmissions between the local wired Ethernet and local wireless protocol limited to a predetermined IP address locked to the robot, predetermined shell level encryption locked to the robot, and predetermined ports to the Internet open only to the robot; and wherein the robot further comprises a wireless transceiver capable of communicating TCP/IP transmissions over a local wireless protocol and a client circuit for transferring TCP/IP transmissions over the local wireless protocol. 2. A robot system comprising: a mobile robot comprising: a robot body; a drive system disposed on the robot body, the drive system comprising: first, second, and third omni-directional wheels rotatably mounted on the robot body; and motors coupled to and driving the omni-directional wheels; a controller in communication with the drive system; a neck rotatably coupled to the robot body; a head coupled to the neck; at least one camera in communication with the controller; and a wireless transceiver in communication with the controller and capable of communicating TCP/IP transmissions over a local wireless protocol and a client circuit for transferring TCP/IP transmissions over the local wireless protocol; wherein the controller is configured to maneuver the robot over a surface at least partially using a signal from the at least one camera; and a station comprising a wireless transceiver capable of communicating TCP/IP transmissions over a local wireless protocol, a wired Ethernet connector for communicating TCP/IP transmissions over a local wired Ethernet accessing the Internet, and an access point circuit for transferring TCP/IP transmissions between the local wired Ethernet and local wireless protocol limited to a predetermined IP address locked to the robot, predetermined shell level encryption locked to the robot, and predetermined ports to the Internet open only to the robot. 3. The robot system of claim 2, wherein the controller provides remote control of the drive system by receiving drive commands though the wireless transceiver. 4. The robot system of claim 2, wherein the controller autonomously navigates the robot with respect to at least a point viewed by the at least one camera. 5. The robot system of claim 4, wherein the point viewed by the at least one camera is selected by a remote user in communication with the controller via the wireless transceiver. 6. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the head is rotatably coupled to the neck. 7. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the at least one camera is disposed on the head in an upward facing arrangement. 8. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the at least one camera comprises a complimentary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) sensor with compatible optics. 9. The mobile robot of claim 2, wherein the controller is configured to maneuver the robot over surface based on a position of a symbol on a ceiling above the robot and recognized by the at least one camera. 10. The mobile robot of claim 2, further comprising a battery carried by the robot body and powering the motors, controller, and the at least one camera. 11. The mobile robot of claim 2, further comprising at least one light disposed on the robot for illuminating an area adjacent the robot. 12. The mobile robot of claim 2, further comprising a speaker in communication with the controller. 13. The mobile robot of claim 2, further comprising a universal serial bus connector in communication with the controller. 