Exemplary embodiments provide methods and systems for assembling electronic devices, such as integrated circuit (IC) chips, using a release member having a phase change material. Specifically, IC elements/components can be selectively received, stored, inspected, repaired, and/or released in a scalable manner during the assembly of IC chips by inducing phase change of the phase change material. The release member can be flexible or rigid. In some embodiments, the release member can be used for a low cost placement of the IC elements in combination with an SOI (silicon on insulator) wafer and/or an intermediate transfer member. In other embodiments, the release member can be used for a low cost placement of the IC elements in combination with a release wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assembling integrated circuits comprising: forming one or more spaced elements on an oxide layer, the oxide layer formed on a silicon substrate; providing a release member comprising a phase-change material; joining the phase change material of the release member with the one or more spaced elements; removing the silicon substrate by etching the oxide layer; and exposing the joined phase change material to an energy for selectively releasing the one or more spaced elements from the release member. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the energy is generated by a UV laser or an IR laser. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the release member is at least partially transparent. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the release member comprises one or more patterned phase-change materials, and further joining each patterned phase change material of the release member with one of the one or more spaced elements. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the release member comprises a roll-to-roll material. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the release member comprises a roll-to-roll material. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transferring the one or more released elements to a chip substrate, wherein each transferred element is positioned in electrical contact with the chip substrate; bonding each transferred element onto the chip substrate, wherein bonding each transferred element comprises one or more processes of applying pressure and heat to bond each transferred element onto the chip substrate; and encapsulating each bonded element in an encapsulating material. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the bonding comprises using at least one pressure roller in contact with each transferred element and at least one heat roller in surface contact with the chip substrate to bond the transferred elements onto the chip substrate. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the bonding comprises using at least one pressure roller in surface contact with the chip substrate and at least one heat roller in contact with each transferred element to bond the transferred elements onto the chip substrate. 10. A method for assembling integrated circuits comprising: forming one or more spaced IC elements on an oxide layer, the oxide layer formed on a silicon substrate; coupling an intermediate transfer member onto a first surface of the one or more spaced IC elements; removing the silicon substrate by etching away the oxide layer and exposing a second surface of the one or more spaced IC elements, wherein the second surface is substantially parallel to the first surface; coupling a phase change surface of a release member onto the exposed second surface of the one or more spaced IC elements; removing the intermediate transfer member from the first surface of the one or more spaced IC elements; and exposing the coupled phase change material to an energy for selectively releasing the one or more spaced IC elements from the release member. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the intermediate transfer member is flexible. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the intermediate transfer member comprises a roll-to-roll material. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the release member comprises a roll-to-roll material. 