A method of guiding a vehicle comprises sensing a position of a laser beam using a laser sensor and receiving a signal from the laser sensor wherein the signal is representative of the position of the laser beam. The method further includes interpreting the signal, generating a control signal in response to the laser beam being greater than a predetermined distance from a predetermined reference position and wherein the control signal is configured to control the vehicle to track the position of the laser beam. The method additionally comprises sending the control signal to a drive actuator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of guiding a vehicle, comprising the steps of: determining a sequence of directions in which to sequentially point a laser beam to delineate a curvilinear guidepath; sequentially projecting the laser beam in the sequence of directions to delineate the curvilinear guidepath; sensing a position where the laser beam strikes a laser sensor; receiving a signal from the laser sensor, the signal being representative of the position where the laser beam strikes the laser sensor; interpreting the signal; generating a control signal in response to the position where the laser beam strikes the laser sensor being greater than a predetermined distance from a predetermined reference position relative to the laser sensor, the control signal being configured to control the vehicle to track the position of the laser beam; and sending the control signal to a drive actuator. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of generating the control signal in response to the position where the laser beam strikes the laser sensor being greater than a predetermined distance from a predetermined reference position comprises using the distance between the position where the laser beam strikes the laser sensor and the reference position to generate the control signal. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of generating the control signal in response to the position where the laser beam strikes the laser sensor being greater than a predetermined distance from a predetermined reference position comprises using the direction from the reference position to the position where the laser beam strikes the laser sensor to generate the control signal. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the drive actuator is coupled to a drive mechanism, the method further comprising the step of: causing the drive mechanism to propel the vehicle. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the drive actuator is coupled to a steering mechanism, the method further comprising the step of: rotating the steering mechanism to a specific angle in a direction that adjusts a path of the vehicle toward the guidepath. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: adjusting the control signal continually to cause the vehicle to track the laser beam. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the vehicle includes an end-effector, the method further comprising performing at least one of the following steps by the end effector: a manufacturing process; and a non-manufacturing task. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the end-effector is configured as a tape lamination material dispensing head, the method further comprising the step of: raising the tape lamination material dispensing head. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: receiving an optical control message at the laser sensor; recognizing the optical control message; and generating a control signal. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising the step of: commanding the vehicle to perform a predetermined function in response to the control signal, the predetermined function including at least one of the following: drive forward, drive in reverse, stop, raise or lower an end-effector. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the end-effector is configured as a tape lamination material dispensing head, the method further comprising the step of: raising the tape lamination material dispensing head to a predetermined position. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the guidepath corresponds to a three-dimensional surface. 13. A method for creating a curvilinear guidepath for a vehicle having an end-effector, comprising the steps of: determining a sequence of directions in which sequentially to point a laser beam to delineate the curvilinear guidepath; generating a control signal for sequentially pointing a laser source in the sequence of directions, the laser source being remote from the vehicle; sending the control signal to the laser source; projecting the laser beam sequentially in the sequence of directions so as to delineate the curvilinear guidepath; sensing a position of the laser beam at a laser sensor mounted on the vehicle; receiving a signal from the laser sensor, the signal being representative of the position of the laser beam relative to the laser sensor; and generating a control signal in response to the laser beam being located greater than a predetermined distance from a predetermined reference position relative to the laser sensor, the control signal being configured to control the vehicle to track the position of the laser beam. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of: adjusting the control signal continually to cause the vehicle to track the laser beam. 15. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of: projecting the laser beam intermittently at a remote portion of the laser sensor so as to distinguish a control message from the guidepath. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of: commanding the vehicle to perform a predetermined function in response to the control message, the predetermined function including at least one of the following: drive forward, drive in reverse, stop, raise or lower the end-effector. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising at least one of the following steps performed by the end effector: welding, cutting, drilling, cleaning, handling, transporting. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein the end-effector is configured as a tape lamination material dispensing head, the method further comprising the step of: raising the tape lamination material dispensing head to a predetermined position. 