A robotic medical system comprises a medical instrument assembly having a retainer, a serial array of instruments disposed in the retainer, a chamber, and an instrument driver. The robotic medical system further comprises a user interface configured for generating at least one command signal, a drive unit coupled to the first mechanism, second mechanism, and instrument driver, and an electric controller configured, in response to the command signal(s), for directing the drive unit to linearly displace the array of instruments within the retainer, to displace a selected one of the instruments from the retainer into the chamber, and to distally advance the instrument driver within the chamber to engage the selected instrument.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: a retainer having a passage; a serial array of instruments disposed in the retainer passage; a chamber; a first mechanism configured for displacing a selected one of the instruments from the retainer passage into the chamber; an instrument driver configured for being distally advanced within the chamber to engage the selected instrument; wherein the retainer has a lateral port, the chamber is in communication with the lateral port, and the first mechanism is configured for displacing the selected instrument through the lateral port into the chamber; and wherein the retainer has a lateral opening opposite to the lateral port, and the first mechanism is configured for being displaced through the lateral opening to displace the selected instrument through the lateral port into the chamber. 2. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the chamber has a proximal opening through which the instrument driver is configured for being introduced. 3. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the instrument driver is configured for interlocking with the selected instrument. 4. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the instruments have differing functions. 5. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein each of the instruments has an end effector. 6. The medical instrument assembly of claim 5, wherein the end effector is an articulating tool. 7. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising a second mechanism configured for linearly displacing the array of instruments within the retainer passage. 8. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising an outlet guide tube extending distally from the chamber, wherein the instrument driver is configured for displacing the engaged instrument from the chamber into the outlet guide tube. 9. The medical instrument assembly of claim 8, wherein the chamber has a distal opening in communication with the outlet guide tube. 