A method for generating a structured-light pattern is disclosed, wherein high-resolution real-time three-dimensional (3D) data can be obtained by using a single frame (or one-shot) imaging or double frames (or two-shot) imaging methods. The structured-light pattern for the one-shot imaging is formed of a multiple-stripe color pattern using a color selection scheme and a sequence principle. The proposed color selection scheme reduces the ambiguity in stripe labeling in one-shot imaging, and the proposed sequence principle increases the number of distinguishable stripe codes. The structured-light pattern for two-shot imaging is formed so that three-dimensional (3D) data can be obtained even for objects having strong surface colors with ambient lights, wherein the first two-shot pattern is synthesized, thereby forming a multiple-stripe color pattern using sign codes and a sequence principle under a condition that prevents color-transitions in more than one channels from occurring. Subsequently, the second two-shot pattern is formed by reversing the first two-shot pattern. Accordingly, high-resolution real-time three-dimensional (3D) data, which is insensitive to object shape and surface color, system noise and nonlinearity, can be obtained.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a method for generating a structured-light pattern of a three-dimensional data obtaining system for obtaining three-dimensional data by projecting a structured-light having a predetermined pattern to an object and by capturing the object scene having the structured-light projected thereto, the method comprising: selecting a number of stripes k determining each subpattern from a number of colors N used in pattern synthesis (wherein N is usually 3) and combining all of the subpatterns that can be used, the subpatterns in which any two consecutive stripes have different colors; and selecting a first subpattern, which is any one of the subpatterns among the subpatterns, identifying a second subpattern, which is a subpattern beginning with the color-stripe sequence from the second stripe to the last stripe of the first subpattern, and overlapping a first stripe of the second subpattern with the second stripe of the first subpattern, identifying a third subpattern, which is a subpattern beginning with the color-stripe sequence from the second stripe to the last stripe of the second subpattern, and overlapping a first stripe of the third subpattern with the second stripe of the second subpattern, and repeating the identifying and overlapping step so that each of the subpatterns that can be used is overlapped with another, thereby completing the generation of structured-light. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of colors used in the pattern synthesis includes red (R), green (G), and blue (B), and wherein a color difference for each of the colors is taken into consideration. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the color red (R) is strong pure red having a color saturation value of (255, 0, 0), wherein the color green (G) is strong pure green having a color saturation value of (0, 255, 0), and wherein the color blue (B) is strong pure blue having a color saturation value of (0, 0, 255). 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein when the number of colors N is fixed, a total number of possible subpatterns is decided based on the value k (wherein k represents a number of stripes determining each subpattern). 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the total number of possible subpatterns is equal to N(N-1).sup.k-1. 6. In a method for generating a structured-light pattern of a three-dimensional data obtaining system for obtaining three-dimensional data by projecting a structured-light having a predetermined pattern to an object and by capturing the object scene having the structured-light projected thereto, the method comprising: selecting a number of stripes k determining each subpattern from a number of colors N used in pattern synthesis, having a number of possible spatial color transitions m (wherein m is equal to a number of color channels), under a condition wherein color transition is allowed in only a single channel among stripes adjacent to one another, combining all of the subpatterns that can be used, the subpatterns in which any two consecutive stripes have different colors; selecting a first subpattern, which is any one of the subpatterns among the subpatterns, identifying a second subpattern, which is a subpattern beginning with the color-stripe sequence from the second stripe to the last stripe of the first subpattern, and overlapping a first stripe of the second subpattern with the second stripe of the first subpattern, identifying a third subpattern, which is a subpattern beginning with the color-stripe sequence from the second stripe to the last stripe of the second subpattern, and overlapping a first stripe of the third subpattern with the second stripe of the second subpattern, and repeating the identifying and overlapping step so that each of the subpatterns that can be used is overlapped with another, thereby generating a first two-shot pattern; and reversing the first two-shot pattern (i.e., the minimum value to the maximum value, and the maximum value to the minimum value), so as to generate a second two-shot pattern. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein each of the colors used in the pattern synthesis is formed of a combination of a minimum value and a maximum value of each color channel, and wherein the colors include red (R), green (G), blue (B), cyan (C), magenta (M), yellow (Y), white (W), and black (K). 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein a channel related to a corresponding color is given a maximum value, and a channel not related to the corresponding color is given a minimum value. 9. The method according to claim 6, wherein the number of colors N used in the pattern synthesis is decided by using the number of color channels m as the equation N=2.sup.m, wherein N=2, 4, and 8 when m=1, 2, and 3. 10. The method according to claim 6, wherein when the number of color channels m is a fixed value, and hence the number of colors N is also fixed by N=2.sup.m, a total number of possible subpatterns is determined by k (wherein k is equal to a number of stripes determining each subpattern). 11. The method according to claim 6, wherein the total number of subpatterns that can be used is equal to n2(m,k)=2.sup.mm.sup.k-1. 