Compositions comprising first and second oligomers are provided wherein at least a portion of the first oligomer is capable of hybridizing with at least a portion of the second oligomer, at least a portion of the first oligomer is complementary to and capable of hybridizing to a selected target nucleic acid, and at least one of the first or second oligomers includes a modified sugar and/or backbone modification. In some embodiments the modification is a 2' substituent group on a sugar moiety that is not H or OH. Oligomer/protein compositions are also provided comprising an oligomer complementary to and capable of hybridizing to a selected target nucleic acid and at least one protein comprising at least a portion of an RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), wherein at least one nucleotide of the oligomer has a modified sugar and/or backbone modification.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composition comprising a first oligomer and a second oligomer, wherein: the first and second oligomers each independently consist of 20 to 22 linked nucleosides and at least 20 contiguous nucleosides of the first oligomer are fully complementary to contiguous nucleosides of the second oligomer; the first oligomer is fully complementary to a target messenger RNA; the first oligomer comprises a first region consisting of two 2'-F nucleosides, a second region consisting of one 2'-OMe nucleoside, a third region consisting of two 2'-F nucleosides, a fourth region consisting of two 2'-OMe nucleosides, a fifth region consisting of five 2'-F nucleosides, a sixth region consisting of three 2'-OMe nucleosides, a seventh region consisting of three 2'-F nucleosides, and an eighth region consisting of two 2'-OMe nucleosides; the second oligomer comprises a plurality of nucleosides each comprising a 2'-OH, and the composition reduces the level of target messenger RNA present in a cell contacted with the composition. 2. The composition of claim 1 wherein at least one of the first and second oligomers comprises a conjugate group. 3. The composition of claim 1 wherein at least one of the first and second oligomers comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The composition of claim 3, wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the first and second oligomers of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. 6. The composition of claim 1 wherein 20 contiguous nucleosides of the first oligomer are fully complementary to contiguous nucleosides of the second oligomer. 7. The composition of claim 6 wherein the first oligomer consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 8. The composition of claim 7 wherein the second oligomer consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 9. The composition of claim 6 wherein the first oligomer consists of 21 linked nucleosides. 10. The composition of claim 9 wherein the second oligomer consists of 21 linked nucleosides. 11. The composition of claim 6 wherein the first oligomer consists of 22 linked nucleosides. 12. The composition of claim 11 wherein the second oligomer consists of 22 linked nucleosides. 