Described herein is electroadhesion technology that permits controllable adherence between two objects. Electroadhesion uses electrostatic forces of attraction produced by an electrostatic adhesion voltage, which is applied using electrodes in an electroadhesive device. The electrostatic adhesion voltage produces an electric field and electrostatic adherence forces. When the electroadhesive device and electrodes are positioned near a surface of an object such as a vertical wall, the electrostatic adherence forces hold the electroadhesive device in position relative to the surface and object. This can be used to increase traction or maintain the position of the electroadhesive device relative to a surface. Electric control of the electrostatic adhesion voltage permits the adhesion to be controllably and readily turned on and off.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot, comprising: a body; a mechanism for locomotion mechanically coupled to the body; and at least one electroadhesive device mechanically coupled to the mechanism for locomotion and configured to detachably adhere to a foreign substrate, said eletroadhesive device including first and second electrodes configured to apply an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces an electrostatic force between the at least one electroadhesive device and the foreign substrate, wherein said electrostatic force is suitable to maintain a current position of the at least one electroadhesive device relative to the substrate. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the substrate is included in a vertical wall or a ceiling. 3. The robot of claim 1, wherein the mechanism for locomotion is configured to position the at least one electroadhesive device onto a surface of the substrate. 4. The robot of claim 1, wherein the electroadhesive device further includes a deformable surface adapted to interface with a surface of the substrate. 5. The robot of claim 1, wherein the mechanism for locomotion includes tracks or a wheel. 6. The robot of claim 1, wherein the electrodes include one or more cilium configured to deform to a surface of the substrate when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 7. The robot of claim 1, wherein the surface of the substrate is damp or dusty. 8. The robot of claim 1, wherein the electrostatic force between the device and the substrate is suitable to maintain a current position of the device relative to the substrate despite the presence of a particulate disposed between a surface of the device and a surface of the substrate. 9. The robot of claim 1, further comprising circuitry configured to provide the electrostatic adhesion voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode, and wherein the circuitry includes step-up voltage circuitry that is configured to receive a voltage from a voltage source, which is less than about 40 volts, and configured to increase the voltage from the voltage source to the electrostatic adhesion voltage, which is above about 500 volts. 10. The robot of claim 1, wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are less than about 1 millimeter from a surface of the substrate when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 11. An electroadhesive device configured to adhere objects together, the electroadhesive device comprising: a body with a first surface and a second surface; a first electrode configured to apply a first voltage at a first location of the first surface; a second electrode configured to apply a second voltage at a second location of the first surface; and a mechanism for locomotion mechanically coupled to the body and at least one of said first and second electrodes, wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces a first electrostatic force between the electroadhesive device and a first object that is suitable to adhere a surface of the first object to the first surface. 12. The electroadhesive device of claim 11, wherein the body includes an insulation material disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode and configured to substantially maintain the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode. 13. The electroadhesive device of claim 11, further comprising circuitry configured to provide the electrostatic adhesion voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode, wherein the circuitry includes step-up voltage circuitry that is configured to receive a voltage from a voltage source, which is less than about 40 volts, and configured to increase the voltage from the voltage source to the electrostatic adhesion voltage, which is above about 500 volt. 14. A method of ascending a wall, comprising: positioning a first electroadhesion device at a first position in proximity to a surface of the wall; applying a first electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between first and second electrodes located on the first electroadhesion device; adhering the first electroadhesion device to the wall surface using a first electrostatic attraction force provided by the first electrostatic adhesion voltage difference; positioning a second electroadhesion device at a second position in proximity to the wall surface; applying a second electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between third and fourth electrodes located on the second electroadhesion device; adhering the second electroadhesion device to the wall surface using a second electrostatic attraction force provided by the second electrostatic adhesion voltage difference; and ascending the wall while one of said first and second electroadhesion devices adheres to the wall. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said step of ascending the wall comprises: removing the first electrostatic adhesion voltage on said first electroadhesion device; moving said first electroadhesion device up the wall while said first electrostatic adhesion voltage is removed; repositioning said first electroadhesion device at a third position in proximity to the wall surface while said first electrostatic adhesion voltage is removed; and reapplying said first electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between first and second electrodes located on the first electroadhesion device while said first electroadhesion device is located at said third position. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the wall surface has a roughness greater than about 1 millimeter. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the wall surface is one of damp, greasy, or dusty. 