A radially expandable, endovascular stent designed for placement at a site of vascular injury, for inhibiting restenosis at the site, a method of using, and a method of making the stent. The stent includes a radially expandable body formed of one or more metallic filaments and a liquid-infusible mechanical anchoring layer attached to or formed in outer surface of the filaments. A drug coating in the stent is composed of a substantially polymer-free composition of an anti-restenosis drug, and has a substratum infused in the anchoring layer and a substantially continuous surface stratum of drug that is brought into direct contact with the vessel walls at the vascular site. Thus, the rate of release of the anti-restenosis drug from the surface stratum into said vascular site is determined solely by the composition of said drug coating.
Claims It is claimed: 1. A radially expandable, endovascular stent designed for placement at a site of vascular injury, for inhibiting restenosis at the site, comprising a radially expandable body formed of one or more metallic filaments defining an outer surface, attached to or formed in said outer surface, a liquid-infusible mechanical anchoring layer having an average thickness of at least 3 .mu.m, and a drug coating composed of a substantially polymer-free composition of an anti-restenosis drug, and having a substratum infused in said anchoring layer, for retaining said coating on the stent body when the stent is radially expanded at the site of vascular injury, and a substantially continuous surface stratum of drug that is brought into direct contact with the vessel walls at said site by such radial expansion, wherein the rate of release of the anti-restenosis drug from the surface stratum into said vascular site is determined solely by the composition of said drug coating, and wherein the substratum of the drug coating constitutes no more than about 25 weight percent of said drug coating. 2. The stent of claim 1, wherein the surface stratum of drug has a thickness of between about 10 and 30 .mu.m. 3. The stent of claim 1, wherein said drug composition contains at least 90% of an antirestenosis macrocyclic triene immunosuppressive compound having the structure: ##STR00005## where (i) R is H, a linear or branched short-chain alkyl, alkyl alcohol, alkyl ether or aldal group containing no more than ten carbon atoms. 4. The stent of claim 3, wherein R is CH.sub.2---X--OH, and X is a linear or branched alkyl group containing 1 to 10 carbon atoms or (CH.sub.2).sub.n--O--(CH.sub.2).sub.n, where n is 1-3. 5. The stent of claim 4, wherein R is (CH.sub.2).sub.n--O--(CH.sub.2).sub.n, where n is 1-3. 6. The stent of claim 1, wherein said stent body is formed of an alloy selected from the group consisting of cobalt/chromium, stainless steel, and platinum iridium. 7. The stent of claim 6, wherein said a liquid-infusible mechanical anchoring layer is produced by electroplating said layer over the stent body. 8. In a radially expandable stent intended for reducing the risk of restenosis at a vascular site of injury, by release of a macrocyclic triene immunosuppressive compound from an intact drug-containing coating formed on an outer, vessel-contacting surface of a stent body, an improvement wherein the intact drug-containing coating is: (i) composed of a substantially polymer-free composition of a macrocyclic triene immunosuppressive compound having the structure: ##STR00006## where (i) R is H, a linear or branched short-chain alkyl, alkyl alcohol, alkyl ether or aldal group containing no more than ten carbon atoms, and (ii) has a substratum that is anchored to the stent body by mechanical anchoring, for retention thereon when the stent is radially expanded at the site of vascular injury, and a substantially continuous surface stratum of drug that is brought into direct contact with the vessel walls at said site by such radial expansion, wherein the rate of release of the macrocyclic triene immunosuppressive compound from the surface stratum into said vascular site is determined solely by the composition of said drug-containing coating, and wherein the substratum of the drug coating constitutes no more than about 25 weight percent of said drug-containing coating. 9. The improvement of claim 8, wherein said stent is has a radially expandable body formed of one or more metallic filaments defining an outer surface, and attached to said outer surface, a liquid-infusible mechanical anchoring layer having an average thickness of at least 3 .mu.m. 10. The improvement of claim 8, wherein R is CH.sub.2---X--OH, and X is a linear or branched alkyl group containing 1 to 10 carbon atoms or (CH.sub.2).sub.n--O--(CH.sub.2).sub.n, where n is 1-3. 11. The improvement of claim 10, wherein R is (CH.sub.2).sub.n--O--(CH.sub.2).sub.n, where n is 1-3. 