A power-delivery mechanism is provided in the present invention, which utilizes an element with airtight and flexible characteristics coupled to a power-generating unit so as to generate a motion in a specific direction. Besides, an apparatus of plasma -enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) is also provided in the present invention, which comprises the power-delivery mechanism to load/unload a workpiece onto a stage for processing automatically. Meanwhile, the present invention also provides a height-adjusting unit and a position-indicating unit allowing the operator to adjust the distance between an upper electrode and a lower electrode of the PECVD so that the operator is capable of monitoring and adjusting the distance easily between the upper electrode and the lower electrode outside the chamber of the PECVD.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A power-delivery mechanism, comprising: a power unit; an airtight flexible unit, coupled to the power unit for receiving power therefrom so as to use the received power to perform a motion of linear displacement; a supporting pillar, disposed inside the airtight flexible unit in a manner that it is movable following the linear motion of the airtight flexible unit while an end thereof is extending outside the airtight flexible unit; a pushing panel, mounted on the supporting pillar in a manner that its position is moved with the supporting pillar; and at least one lift pin, with an end thereof being placed freely on the pushing panel by its own weight; wherein the airtight flexible unit further comprises: a first supporting plate; a second supporting plate, disposed at one surface of the first supporting plate while coupling to the power unit and formed as a fillister at another surface thereof opposite to that coupled to the power unit for fixedly receiving and securing an end of the supporting pillar therein; an airtight retractable bush, arranged at a position between the first and the second supporting plates; and at least one guiding rod is arranged between the first and the second supporting plates while disposed at the supporting plate which is placed at a position close to the outer rim of the airtight retractable bush. 2. The power-delivery mechanism of claim 1, wherein the power unit is a device selected from the group consisting of a motor and a pneumatic cylinder. 3. The power-delivery mechanism of claim 1, wherein the airtight retractable bush is substantially a bellow. 4. A plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) apparatus, comprising: a chamber; an electrode unit, containing an upper electrode and a lower electrode embedded with a heater while received inside the chamber; at least one power-delivery mechanism, each being arranged outside the chamber and further comprising: a power unit; an airtight flexible unit, coupled to the power unit for receiving power therefrom so as to use the received power to perform a motion of linear displacement; and a supporting pillar, disposed inside the airtight flexible unit in a manner that it is movable following the linear motion of the airtight flexible unit while an end thereof is extending outside the airtight flexible unit; a pushing panel, mounted on the supporting pillar of at least one power-delivery mechanism in a manner that its position is moved with the supporting pillar; and at least one lift pin, each piercing through the lower electrode while keeping an end thereof being placed freely on the pushing panel by its own weight; wherein the airtight flexible unit further comprises: a first supporting plate; a second supporting plate, disposed at one surface of the first supporting plate while coupling to the power unit and formed as a fillister at another surface thereof opposite to that coupled to the power unit for fixedly receiving and securing an end of the supporting pillar therein; an airtight retractable bush, arranged at a position between the first and the second supporting plates; and at least one guiding rod is arranged between the first and the second supporting plates while disposed at the supporting plate which is placed at a position close to the outer rim of the airtight retractable bush. 5. The PECVD apparatus of claim 4, wherein the power unit is a device selected from the group consisting of a motor and a pneumatic cylinder. 6. The PECVD apparatus of claim 4, wherein the lower electrode is arranged in a manner that it is protruded from the bottom of the chamber. 7. The PECVD apparatus of claim 4, wherein the airtight retractable bush is substantially a bellow. 8. The PECVD apparatus of claim 4, further comprising: a supporting seat, connected with the bottom of the chamber; a height-adjusting unit, capable of controlling the positioning of the lower electrode as it is disposed inside the supporting seat for supporting the lower electrode; an airtight retractable bush, arranged at a position between the height-adjusting unit and the bottom of the chamber in a manner that the electrode, protruded outside the bottom of the chamber, is allowed to pass through the airtight retractable bush; and a locating ring, abutting against the bottom of the lower electrode. 9. The PECVD apparatus of claim 8, wherein the height-adjusting unit further comprises: a base with screw thread formed on the lower portion of the external periphery thereof, designed for allowing the lower electrode to pass therethrough while structured with a flange on the inner wall thereof to be used for abutting against a protruding portion formed on the lower electrode; a first locking nut, capable of being screwedly mounted on the base while maintaining a tight locking against the bottom of the supporting seat; and a second locking nut, capable of being screwedly mounted on the base while maintaining a tight locking against the lower rim of the supporting seat; wherein, the lower electrode is raised to a specific position by the steps listed as following: loosing the second locking nut; screwing the first locking nut for enabling the first locking nut to move in relative to the external screw thread of the base; and tightly screwing the second locking nut until it is tightly pressed against the lower rim of the supporting seat for fixedly stationing the position of the lower electrode; and the lower electrode is lowered to a specific position by the steps listed as following: loosing the first locking nut; tightly screwing the second locking nut upwardly for forcing the lower electrode to descend. 10. The PECVD apparatus of claim 8, wherein at least a locating bolt is arranged between the locating ring and the lower electrode protruding the bottom of the chamber. 11. The PECVD apparatus of claim 8, wherein the height-adjusting unit further comprises: at least an orientation mechanism, each arranged at a position between the locating ring and the supporting seat, each further comprised: a guidance element, mounted on the supporting seat; and a orientation rod, having an end fixedly coupled to the locating ring and another end being arranged to slide freely on the guidance element. 12. The PECVD apparatus of claim 8, wherein the lower electrode further comprises a tube, which is forced to press tightly with the locating ring by a sealing ring and is further fixedly stationed by using at least one orientation bolt. 13. The PECVD apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a position-indicating unit, which comprises: a scale, arranged on the outer wall of the supporting seat; a pointer, connected with the locating ring and pointing to the graduations of the scale; and two position sensors, respectively mounted at the two ends of the scale. 14. The PECVD apparatus of claim 8, wherein the airtight retractable bush is substantially a bellow. 15. The PECVD apparatus of claim 4, further comprising: a transporting arm, arranged at one side of the chamber and used to carry a wafer carrier having a wafer placed thereon. 16. The PECVD apparatus of claim 4, wherein the profile of the end of the lift pin abutting against the pushing panel is an arc. 