A scanning sensor system 100, methods and kits for use thereof including a switchable light source 102, a detector 106, a substrate 104 and a plurality of optical sensing sites 112 are provided. Substrate 104 is coupled to and in optical communication with switchable light source 102 and detector 106. Additionally, substrate 104 includes a plurality of substantially parallel excitation waveguides 108, and a plurality of substantially parallel collection waveguides 110, the excitation waveguides 108 and collection waveguides 110 crossing to form a two-dimensional array and optical communication with intersection regions 114 at each crossing. The plurality of optical sensing sites 112 are each in optical communication with an intersection region 114.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A scanning sensor system for detecting a biologically active analyte comprising: a switchable light source; a detector; a substrate coupled to and in optical communication with the switchable light source and the detector, wherein the substrate comprises a plurality of substantially parallel excitation waveguides, and a plurality of substantially parallel collection waveguides, the excitation waveguides and collection waveguides crossing to form a two-dimensional array of intersection regions where an excitation waveguide and a collection waveguide cross and provide optical communication with the intersection region at each crossing; and a plurality of optical sensing sites each in optical communication with an intersection region. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is substantially planar. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises a planar lightwave circuit. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the switchable light source is coupled to and in communication with one or more of the excitation waveguides at a first edge of the substrate and the detector is coupled to and in communication with one or more of the collection waveguides at a second edge of the substrate. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise a sensor and a sample comprising a biologically active analyte, wherein a measurable change in a first light wave results when the sensor discriminates or interacts with the biologically active analyte. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein a first light wave generated by the switchable light source in an excitation waveguide is transduced by a sensor of an optical sensing site in optical communication with the excitation wave guide resulting in a second light wave in a collection waveguide, the second light wave being detectable by the detector. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor is adapted to support an immunoassay. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the immunoassay supported is an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the immunoassay supported is a fluorescent immunoassay. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor is selected from the group consisting of a fluorescence well, an absorption cell, an interferometric sensor, a diffractive sensor and surface plasmon resonance sensor. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the biologically active analyte is selected from the group consisting of a nucleic acid, a protein, an antigen, an antibody, a microorganism, a gas, a chemical agent and a pollutant. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the nucleic acid is produced via an amplification reaction. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the excitation waveguides are single-mode and the collection waveguides are multi-mode. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the excitation waveguides support single-mode in a first vertical dimension and multi-mode in a second lateral dimension and wherein the collection waveguides are multi-mode. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the excitation waveguides and the collection waveguides are multi-mode. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the excitation waveguides and the collection waveguides are single-mode. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the excitation waveguide comprises a plurality of branches for drawing a fraction of the light from a first light wave traveling in the excitation waveguide. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the excitation waveguide branches are in optical communication with the excitation waveguide. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the collection waveguide comprises a plurality of funnels for collecting light from the sensing sites and coupling it to the collection waveguide. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise wells. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise the surface of the substrate above the intersection region of the excitation waveguides and the collection waveguides. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise biochemical interaction sites. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise optical transducers. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the optical transducers comprise fluorescence wells comprising fluorescent or luminescent compounds, wherein light waves guided by the excitation waveguides excite the fluorescent or luminescent compound in the wells in the presence of a biologically active analyte, and the collection waveguides collect and guide light emitted from the wells to the detector. 25. The system of claim 1, wherein the switchable light source comprises a dynamic light source. 26. The system of claim 1, wherein the switchable light source comprises a chip containing an array of light generators coupled to an array of waveguides. 27. The system of claim 1, wherein the switchable light source is an optical switch comprising a light generator coupled to one or more input of the optical switch. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the optical switch further comprises a branched architecture. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the optical switch further comprises one or more inputs and multiple outputs. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein the optical switch further comprises greater than about 10 outputs. 31. The system of claim 29, wherein the optical switch further comprises greater than about 100 outputs. 32. The system of claim 29, wherein the optical switch further comprises greater than about 1,000 outputs. 33. The system of claim 29, wherein the optical switch further comprises substantially between 50 and 500 outputs. 34. The system of claim 1, wherein the switchable light source is butt-coupled to the substrate. 35. The system of claim 1, wherein the switchable light source comprises one or more waveguide and is evanescently coupled to the substrate through a proximate arrangement of the one or more switchable light source waveguide and one or more excitation waveguide of the substrate. 36. The system of claim 27, wherein the light generator provides variable wavelengths of light. 37. The system of claim 27, wherein the light generator is selected from the group consisting of a broad-band source, a source with one or more discrete spectral lines and a tunable source. 38. The system of claim 1, wherein the detector is a photodetector array. 39. The system of claim 1, wherein the detector is a plurality of detectors. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein two or more detectors are coupled to and in optical communication with one or more of the collection waveguides or the excitation waveguides at one or more edges of the substrate. 41. The system of claim 1, wherein the number of intersection regions is greater than 10. 42. The system of claim 1, wherein the density of intersection regions is greater than 100 per cm.sup.2. 43. The system of claim 1, wherein the density of intersection regions is greater than 2,000 per cm.sup.2. 44. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a thermal transfer element in thermal communication with the substrate. 45. The system of claim 44, wherein the thermal transfer element is a thermoelectric cooler. 46. The system of claim 1, wherein each optical sensing site comprises a thermal transfer element in thermal communication with the optical sensing site. 47. The system of claim 46, wherein the thermal transfer element comprises a thin-film heater. 48. The system of claim 46, wherein each optical sensing site further comprises a thermistor in thermal communication with the optical sensing site. 49. The system of claim 1, wherein the substrate further comprises one or more microchannel and one or more reservoirs in fluid communication with one or more optical sensing site. 50. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a fluidics layer coupled to the substrate and comprising one or more microchannel and one or more reservoirs in fluid communication with one or more optical sensing site. 51. A scanning sensing method comprising: delivering a sample suspected of containing a biologically active analyte to be detected to an optical sensing site of a scanning sensor system; providing a first light wave using a switchable light source to one or more of a plurality of substantially parallel excitation waveguides in optical communication with the optical sensing site, wherein the first light wave is transducable by a sensor associated with the optical sensing site to a second light wave carried in one or more of a plurality of substantially parallel collection waveguides in optical communication with the optical sensing site and crossing the excitation waveguides; and detecting a measurable change in the second light wave using a detector in optical communication with the collection waveguides, wherein a measurable change in the first light waves occurs when the sensor interacts with the biologically active analyte. 52. The method of claim 51, wherein scanning sensing further comprises switching one or more input light wave from the switchable light source into the substrate to produce the first light wave in one or more of the excitation waveguides. 53. The method of claim 51, wherein the switchable light source comprises an optical switch for controlled switching of one or more input light wave, the optical switch can multicast light to a plurality of outputs and into the substrate to controllably produce the first light wave in one or more of the excitation waveguides. 54. The method of claim 51, wherein the switchable light source comprises an array of individually controlled light generators for controlled switching of one or more input light wave, to controllably produce the first light wave in one or more of the excitation waveguides. 55. The method of claim 51, further comprising simultaneously detecting the second light wave with the detector at the end of each collection waveguide wherein the detector comprises a photodetector array. 56. The method of claim 51, wherein, a portion of the sensing sites comprise reference sample material for calibration and/or normalization. 57. The method of claim 51, wherein the biologically active analyte is selected from the group consisting of a nucleic acid, a protein, an antigen, an antibody, a microorganism, a gas, a chemical agent and a pollutant. 58. The method of claim 51, wherein the biologically active analyte is a protein. 59. The method of claim 51, wherein a SNP is detected in the biologically active analyte. 60. The method of claim 51, wherein expression of a gene is detected upon detection of the biologically active analyte. 61. The method of claim 51, wherein the sensor is adapted to support an immunoassay and wherein the sensor interacting with the biologically active analyte comprises an outcome of an immunoassay. 62. The method of claim 61, wherein the immunoassay supported is an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). 63. The method of claim 61, wherein the immunoassay supported is a fluorescent immunoassay. 64. The method of claim 51, wherein detecting a measurable change in the second lightwave provides a diagnostic result. 65. The method of claim 51, further comprising conducting a real-time PCR reaction at the optical sensing site. 66. A kit for assaying a sample for a biologically active analyte comprising: a scanning sensor system comprising a switchable light source, a detector, and a substrate coupled to and in optical communication with the switchable light source and the detector, wherein the substrate comprises a plurality of substantially parallel excitation waveguides, and a plurality of substantially parallel collection waveguides, the excitation waveguides and collection waveguides crossing to form a two-dimensional array of intersection regions where an excitation waveguide and a collection waveguide cross and provide optical communication with the intersection regions at each crossing, and a plurality of optical sensing sites each in optical communication with an intersection region; packaging; and instructions for use of the system. 67. The kit of claim 66, wherein the system comprises a planar lightwave circuit. 68. The kit of claim 66, wherein the crossing of the excitation waveguides and collection waveguides is substantially perpendicular. 69. The kit of claim 66, wherein the optical sensing sites comprise a sensor adapted to support an immunoassay, and wherein the kit further comprises one or more immunoassay reagents. 