A printhead tile is provided having a printhead integrated circuit and adjacent channel, upper, middle and lower layers. Each integrated circuit incorporates ink ejection nozzles which each have an ink chamber and a thermal bend actuator beam which thermally expands to cause ejection of ink from the chamber. The channel layer is adjacent the integrated circuit and has channel layer slots. The upper layer has upper layer holes on one side in communication with the channel layer slots and upper layer channels on an opposite side. The middle layer has middle layer holes in communication with the upper layer channels. The lower layer has lower layer channels on one side in communication with the middle layer holes and inlet holes on an opposite side. The inlet holes receive ink for supply to the chambers via the layers.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A printhead tile comprising: a printhead integrated circuit incorporating ink ejection nozzles, each nozzle comprising an ink chamber and a thermal bend actuator beam configured to thermally expand upon receipt of an electrical current so as to cause ejection of ink from the chamber; a channel layer adjacent the printhead integrated circuit and having channel layer slots; an upper layer having upper layer holes on one side in communication with the channel layer slots and upper layer channels on an opposite side; a middle layer having middle layer holes in communication with the upper layer channels; and a lower layer having lower layer channels on one side in communication with the middle layer holes and inlet holes on an opposite side, the inlet holes being arranged to receive ink for supply to the chambers via the channel, upper, middle and lower layers. 2. A printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein an endplate is provided adjacent the channel layer. 3. A printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein the channel layer slots are provided as fingers integrated in the channel layer. 4. A printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printhead integrated circuit is bonded onto the upper layer. 5. A printhead tile as claimed in claim 4, wherein the nozzles overlie the upper layer holes. 6. A printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, wherein the diameter of holes decreases from the inlet holes to the upper layer holes. 7. A printhead tile as claimed in claim 1, comprising a nozzle guard adjacent the printhead integrated circuit. 