The invention provides a mold insert system that includes an insert for insertion into an injection mold apparatus and an actuator. The insert includes a movable imprint plate with a predetermined pattern of protrusions configured to form grooves in an article molded by the mold apparatus. The insert also includes a stationary piece with a pattern of slots configured to correspond to the predetermined pattern of protrusions in the imprint plate. The actuator moves the imprint plate from a first position in which the protrusions on the imprint plate do not extend beyond the slots in the stationary piece to a second position in which the protrusions on the imprint plate extend temporarily beyond the slots in the stationary piece. An injection mold apparatus including the mold insert system, as well as a method of making a molded article including the mold insert system are also provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mold insert system for an injection mold apparatus including a mold cavity plate and a mold core plate, the mold insert system comprising: an insert configured for insertion into the injection mold apparatus, the insert including: an imprint plate including a predetermined pattern of protrusions configured to form grooves in an article molded by the injection mold apparatus, wherein the imprint plate of the insert is configured to be moveable relative to the mold core plate; a stationary piece including a pattern of slots configured to correspond to the predetermined pattern of protrusions in the imprint plate, wherein the stationary piece of the insert is configured to be stationary relative to the mold core plate and wherein the stationary piece is separate from both the mold cavity plate and the mold core plate; an actuator configured to cause movement of the imprint plate from a first position in which the protrusions on the imprint plate do not extend beyond the slots in the stationary piece to a second position in which the protrusions on the imprint plate extend temporarily beyond the slots in the stationary piece. 2. The mold insert system according to claim 1, wherein the protrusions terminate in a V-shape. 3. The mold insert system according to claim 1, wherein the imprint plate has a longitudinal axis, and the movement of the imprint plate is in a direction that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. 4. The mold insert system according to claim 1, wherein the actuator is configured to move the imprint plate a predetermined distance. 5. The mold insert system according to claim 4, wherein the predetermined distance is adjustable. 6. The mold insert system according to claim 4, wherein the predetermined distance is greater than 0 mm and less than 1.5 mm. 7. The mold insert system according to claim 1, wherein the actuator is configured to retract the imprint plate back to the first position. 8. The mold insert system according to claim 1, wherein the actuator comprises a hydraulic cylinder. 9. The mold insert system according to claim 8, wherein the actuator further comprises a solenoid valve. 10. The mold insert system according to claim 1, further comprising a retainer plate configured for receiving the stationary piece. 11. The mold insert system according to claim 10, further comprising a back plate configured for receiving the retainer plate. 12. An injection mold apparatus, comprising: a mold cavity plate; a mold core plate having first and second opposing faces and configured for mating with the mold cavity plate to define a mold cavity, wherein the mold core plate includes a facial pocket; and a mold insert system configured to be at least partially disposed in the facial pocket, the mold insert system comprising: an insert configured for insertion into an injection mold apparatus, the insert comprising: an imprint plate including a predetermined pattern of protrusions configured to form grooves in an article molded by the injection mold apparatus, wherein the imprint plate of the insert is configured to be moveable relative to the mold core plate; a stationary piece including a pattern of slots configured to correspond to the predetermined pattern of protrusions in the imprint plate, wherein the stationary piece of the insert is configured to be stationary relative to the mold core plate, wherein the stationary piece is separate from both the mold cavity plate and the mold core plate, and wherein the stationary piece is configured to be at least partially disposed in the facial pocket of the mold core plate; an actuator configured to cause movement of the imprint plate from a first position in which the protrusions on the imprint plate do not extend beyond the slots in the stationary piece to a second position in which the protrusions on the imprint plate extend temporarily beyond the slots in the stationary piece. 13. The injection mold apparatus of claim 12, further comprising a clamp plate configured for connection to the mold core plate. 14. The injection mold apparatus of claim 13, wherein the mold insert system is configured to be at least partially disposed in the clamp plate. 15. The injection mold apparatus of claim 12, wherein the stationary piece is substantially flush with one of the first and second opposing faces of the mold core plate. 16. A method of making a molded article, comprising: providing an insert for use with an injection mold apparatus including a mold cavity plate and a mold core plate, the insert including: an imprint plate including a predetermined pattern of protrusions, wherein the imprint plate is configured to be moveable relative to the mold core plate; a stationary piece including a pattern of slots configured to correspond to the predetermined pattern of protrusions in the imprint plate, wherein the stationary piece of the insert is configured to be stationary relative to the mold core plate and wherein the stationary piece is separate from both the mold cavity plate and the mold core plate; maintaining the insert flush with a wall surface of the injection mold apparatus; injecting molten plastic into the injection mold apparatus; moving the imprint plate toward the injection mold apparatus; and forming grooves in the article molded by the injection molding apparatus. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the step of moving the imprint plate toward the injection mold apparatus occurs approximately after the injection mold apparatus is transferred from speed control to pressure control. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising retracting the imprint plate away from the injection mold apparatus. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the step of retracting the imprint plate from the injection mold apparatus occurs approximately after a cooling cycle of the injection mold apparatus is complete. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: opening the injection mold apparatus; and ejecting the article molded by the injection mold apparatus. 