A compressible and expandable sample tube holder includes a housing with a plurality of adjacent section members, movable toward and away from each other. Biasing members normally maintain the section members in an expanded condition. In the compressed condition the spacing between section members is reduced. A sample tube breakage detector includes slidable plungers having a protracted position that corresponds to a broken sample tube and a retracted position that corresponds to an unbroken sample tube in the sample tube holder. A detector compares the plunger positions before and after centrifuge spin to detect any broken sample tubes in the sample tube holder. A gripper device for the sample tube holder includes a lifting probe and a stabilizer to stabilize the sample tube holder during lifting. The gripper device and breakage detector are raised and lowered by a raising and lowering device having first and second telescoping members.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sample tube holder comprising, a) a housing having a predetermined number of sample tube openings for receiving sample tubes, said housing including a plurality of adjacent section members including a pair of end section members, and at least one middle section member, assembled together in side-by-side arrangement such that each of said section members is movable toward and away from an adjacent section member, b) biasing means provided between the end section members and the at least one middle section member to maintain the end section members and the at least one middle section member in a side-by-side spaced relationship, said biasing means having a normally expanded condition to define a normally expanded condition of the housing, said housing having a compressed condition when opposing forces applied to the end section members overcome and compress the biasing means a predetermined amount and reduce the side-by-side spaced relationship between each of the section members the predetermined amount, and c) connecting means on each of the section members, the connecting means adapted for engagement with each other and for engagement of each of the section members together in a compressible and expandable accordion-like arrangement when the biasing means is (1) urged from the normally expanded condition to the compressed condition or (2) allowed to expand from the compressed condition to the normally expanded condition, respectively, wherein the at least one middle section member and the end section members each have opposite outside wall portions, and the connecting means are provided on the opposite outside wall portions of the at least one middle section member and the end section members, and the connecting means include (1) at least one clasp portion extending from each of the opposite outside wall portions of each of the section members, and (2) at least one corresponding recess in each of the opposite outside wall portions of each of the section members, such that the clasp portions engage the recesses of respective adjacent section members. 2. The sample tube holder as claimed in claim 1 including three of said middle section members between said end section members, and each of the middle section members and the end section members have sample tube openings for receiving sample tubes. 3. The sample tube holder as claimed in claim 1 wherein each of the end section members of said housing includes at least one post receiving opening for receiving at least one post for holding said end section members in said compressed condition. 4. The sample tube holder as claimed in claim 1 wherein said housing includes a hold down recess for engagement by a hold down tool for holding the housing in a fixed position during removal of sample tubes from the sample tube openings of said housing. 