The invention provides extraction columns for the purification of an analyte (e.g., a biological macromolecule, such as a peptide, protein or nucleic acid) from a sample solution, as well as methods for making and using such columns. The columns typically include a bed of extraction media positioned in the column, often between two frits. In some embodiments, the extraction columns employ modified pipette tips as column bodies. In some embodiments, the extraction columns are comprised of frits having a low pore. In some embodiments, the frits of the extraction columns have a pore volume of less than one microliter or less than 10% of the interstitial volume of the bed of extraction media.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of extracting a biomolecule from a sample solution comprising the steps of: a. providing a pipette tip extraction column comprising i) a column body having an open upper end, an open lower end, and an open channel between the upper and lower ends of the column body, wherein the column body is comprised of a modified pipette tip, ii) a bottom frit extending across the open channel, said bottom frit having a pore volume of less than one microliter, and iii) a bed of gel resin media positioned inside the open channel and in contact with the bottom frit; b. passing the sample solution through the pipette tip extraction column; c. optionally, passing a wash solution through the pipette tip extraction column; and d. eluting the biomolecule by passing a desorption solvent through the pipette tip extraction column. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the bottom frit is located at the open lower end of the column body. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the biomolecule is an active protein. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the upper end of the column body is operatively attached to a pump for aspirating and discharging fluid through the lower end of the column body. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the pump is a pipettor or a syringe. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the pipette tip extraction column is further comprised of a top frit extending across the open channel between the bed of gel resin media and the open upper end of the column body. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the top frit has a pore volume of less than one microliter. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the top frit or the bottom frit has a pore volume of less than 0.5 microliters. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the gel resin comprises agarose or sepharose. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the gel resin media comprises an affinity binding group. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the affinity binding group is selected from the group consisting of Protein A, Protein G, Protein L and an immobilized metal. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is performed on a plurality of pipette tip extraction columns in parallel, and wherein each extraction column is controlled by a pump. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the movement of the pumps is controlled by a controller, and wherein a computer is programmed to control the movement of the pumps through the controller. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the pipette tip extraction columns are further comprised of a top frit extending across the open channel between the bed of gel resin media and the open upper end of the column body, wherein the bottom frit is located at the open lower end of the column body, wherein the gel resin media is comprised of agarose or sepharose, wherein the gel resin media is further comprised of an affinity binding group selected from the group consisting of Protein A, Protein G, Protein L and an immobilized metal. 15. A method of extracting a biomolecule from a sample solution comprising the steps of: a. providing a pipette tip extraction column comprising i) a column body having an open upper end, an open lower end, and an open channel between the upper and lower ends of the column body, wherein the column body is comprised of a modified pipette tip, ii) a bottom frit extending across the open channel, said bottom frit having a pore volume of less than one microliter, wherein the bottom frit is located at the open lower end of the column body, iii) a bed of gel resin media positioned inside the open channel and in contact with the bottom frit, wherein the gel resin media is comprised of agarose or sepharose, wherein the gel resin media is further comprised of an affinity binding group selected from the group consisting of Protein A, Protein G, Protein L and an immobilized metal, b. passing the sample solution through the pipette tip extraction column; c. optionally, passing a wash solution through the pipette tip extraction column; and d. eluting the biomolecule by passing a desorption solvent through the pipette tip extraction column. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the pipette tip extraction column is further comprised of a top frit extending across the open channel between the bed of gel resin media and the open upper end of the column body. 