A method of registering a product item is disclosed. The product item has disposed thereon coded data portions at respective positions on a surface of the product item. Each coded data portion encodes a product item identity and the respective position of the coded data portion. The method starts by a sensing device sensing at least one coded data portion, generating indicating data indicative of the product item identity and the position of the sensed coded data portion, and transferring the indicating data to a computer system. The computer system receives the indicating data, identifies that the position relates to a registration request, obtain owner data associated with the sensing device, determines an entity associated with the product item identity, and register the owner data with the entity.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of registering a product item, the product item having disposed thereon coded data portions at respective positions on a surface of the product item, each coded data portion encoding a product item identity and the respective position of the coded data portion, wherein the method includes steps of: sensing by a sensing device at least one coded data portion; generating by the sensing device indicating data indicative of the product item identity and the position of the sensed coded data portion, the product item identity and the position being generated by decoding at least one sensed coded data portion; transferring by the sensing device the indicating data to a computer system; receiving by the computer system the indicating data; identifying by the computer system that the position relates to a registration request; obtaining by the computer system owner data associated with the sensing device; determining an entity associated with the product item identity; and registering by the computer system the owner data with the entity. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying step includes the sub-steps of: retrieving a page description associated with the product item identifier; and determining from the page description that the position related to a registration request. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface is partitioned in a plurality of regions, and the coded data in respective regions uniquely identifies the identity of the region. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer system obtains the owner data associated with the sensing device from a storage device. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein step of obtaining the owner data associated with the sensing device includes the sub-steps of: printing a form including position indicating coded data; sensing by the sensing device the position indicating coded data as the sensing device is moved over the form by a user; generating by the sensing device movement data indicative of the movement of the sensing device over the form; transferring by the sensing device the movement data to the computer system; receiving by the computer system the movement data; translating by the computer system the movement data into the owner data. 6. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of: determining a communications address of the entity; and forwarding to the communications address the owner data. 7. The method of claim 6 further including the steps of: receiving a registration acknowledgement from the entity; and printing the registration acknowledgement. 