Embodiments of the invention contemplate the formation of a high efficiency solar cell using novel methods to form the active doped region(s) and the metal contact structure of the solar cell device. In one embodiment, the methods include the steps of depositing a dielectric material that is used to define the boundaries of the active regions and/or contact structure of a solar cell device. Various techniques may be used to form the active regions of the solar cell and the metal contact structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a solar cell device, comprising: disposing a dopant material comprising a first dopant on a plurality of regions of a first surface of a substrate in a first deposition station disposed in an automation assembly, wherein the first deposition station comprises a screen printing mask and at least one actuator configured to position the screen printing mask; forming a dielectric layer over the dopant material and a portion of the first surface of the substrate in a second deposition station disposed in the automation assembly, wherein the dielectric layer comprises a second dopant that is an opposite doping type of the first dopant; heating the substrate to a desired temperature in a heating chamber disposed in the automation assembly to cause the first and the second dopants to diffuse into the first surface of the substrate; and depositing a conducting layer over at least a portion of the first surface of the substrate in a third deposition station disposed in the automation assembly. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: cleaning the first surface of the substrate in a first wet processing chamber disposed in the automation assembly prior to or after heating the substrate. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: texturing the first surface or a second surface of the substrate in a second wet processing chamber disposed in the automation assembly. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: forming a second dielectric layer over the first surface of the substrate after texturing the first surface of the substrate; and patterning the second dielectric layer to form a plurality of regions, wherein the plurality of regions are adapted to expose portion of the first and the second dopants diffused into the substrate. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming a capping layer over the dielectric layer in the second deposition station disposed in the automation assembly before heating the substrate. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: depositing an etching material over one or more regions of the dielectric layer or capping layer in a fourth deposition chamber which comprises a screen printing mask, wherein the etching material comprises a doping element; and heating the substrate and the etching material to a desired temperature to cause doping elements to diffuse into the substrate. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: forming a plurality of spacer materials between regions having the first and the second dopants. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: etching one or more regions of the dielectric layer to expose a portion of the first surface of the substrate, wherein a dopant containing residue comprising the second dopant is left at the exposed surface of the substrate, wherein the heating the substrate further comprises heating the substrate, the first dopant material and dopant containing residue to a desired temperature to cause the doping atoms in the first dopant material and the dopant containing residue to diffuse into the substrate. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: etching one or more regions of the dielectric layer before heating the substrate, wherein etching the one or more regions further comprises using an etching material that contains a third doping material, which contains a doping atom that is different than the first doped material. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming a capping layer over the dielectric layer before heating the substrate. 11. A method of forming a solar cell device, comprising: depositing a dielectric material on a plurality of first regions of a first surface of a substrate using a screen printing process that comprises aligning a first screen printing mask with the substrate by use of at least one actuator; depositing a first dopant material on a plurality of second regions of the first surface of the substrate using a screen printing process that comprises aligning a second screen printing mask with the substrate by use of at least one actuator; and depositing a second dopant material on a plurality of third regions of the first surface using a screen printing process that comprises aligning a third screen printing mask with the substrate by use of at least one actuator, wherein at least a portion of the first and second dopant materials are separated from each other by the deposited dielectric material. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: heating the substrate to a desired temperature to cause the first and the second dopant materials to simultaneously diffuse into the first surface of the substrate. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: removing the dielectric material disposed on the first surface of the substrate while texturing a second surface of the substrate, wherein removing the dielectric material is performed after heating the substrate to the desired temperature. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: forming a dielectric layer over the first surface of the substrate; etching the dielectric layer to form a plurality of regions to expose portion of the first surface of the substrate; and forming a conductive layer on the dielectric layer and the exposed portion of the substrate. 15. The method of claim 12, further comprising: depositing a conducting layer over the first surface of the substrate, wherein depositing the conducting layer is performed using a screen printing process. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: removing a portion of the conducting layer to electrically isolate at least one region of the conducting layer in contact with a region of the first substrate surface on which a first dopant material was disposed and at least one region of the conducting layer in contact with a region of the first substrate surface on which a second dopant material was disposed. 17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: removing the dielectric material disposed on the first surface of the substrate before depositing the conducting layer. 18. The method of claim 11, further comprising: disposing a spacer material on a plurality of regions of the first surface of the substrate. 19. The method of claim 11, further comprising: removing material from a second surface of the substrate to form a desirable roughness on the second surface. 