In a spectrographic workpiece metrology system having an optical viewing window, the viewing window is calibrated against a reference sample of a known absolute reflectance spectrum to produce a normalized reflectance spectrum of the reference sample, which is combined with the absolute reflectance spectrum to produce a correction factor. Successive production workpieces are measured through the window and calibrated against the viewing window reflectance, and transformed to absolute reflectance spectra using the same correction factor without having to re-load the reference sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of measuring the absolute reflectance spectrum of a workpiece using an optical sensing apparatus having a viewing window facing a workpiece support surface, comprising: obtaining a reflectance spectrum of said viewing window; measuring through said viewing window a reflectance spectrum of a reference sample having a predetermined absolute reflectance spectrum, and normalizing the measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample with said reflectance spectrum of said viewing window; computing a correction function by combining said absolute reflectance spectrum and the normalized reflectance spectrum of said reference sample; for each one of a succession of production workpieces, measuring a reflectance spectrum of the one production workpiece, normalizing said production workpiece reflectance spectrum with the viewing window reflectance spectrum, and computing the production workpiece absolute reflectance spectrum by combining the normalized production workpiece reflectance spectrum with said correction function. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said obtaining a reflectance spectrum of said viewing window comprises collecting light reflected internally in said optical apparatus from said viewing window. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said obtaining a reflectance spectrum of said viewing window further comprises refraining from placing a workpiece on said support surface while providing said support surface as a non-reflective surface. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said normalizing the measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample comprises combining said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample with the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window to produce a normalized reflectance spectrum of said reference sample. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said combining said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample with the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window comprises performing a division between said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample and the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said performing a division between said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample and the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window comprises dividing said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample by the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 7. The method of claim 4 wherein said normalizing the measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample further comprises subtracting from said normalized reflectance spectrum an intensity value of unity or 1.00. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said combining said absolute reflectance spectrum and the normalized reflectance spectrum of said reference sample comprises performing a division between said absolute reflectance spectrum of said reference sample and the normalized reflectance spectrum of said reference sample. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said performing a division between said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample and the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window comprises dividing said measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample by the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising re-measuring the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window after either: (a) obtaining the absolute reflectance spectra of a predetermined number of said succession of production workpieces or (b) an elapsed time has exceeded a predetermined threshold. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said obtaining a reflectance spectrum of said viewing window further comprises refraining from placing a workpiece on said support surface while providing said support surface as a non-reflective surface. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein said normalizing the production workpiece reflectance spectrum comprises combining said production workpiece reflectance spectrum with the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window to produce a normalized reflectance spectrum of said production workpiece. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein said combining said production workpiece reflectance spectrum with the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window comprises performing a division between said production workpiece reflectance spectrum and the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said performing a division between said production workpiece reflectance spectrum and the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window comprises dividing said production workpiece reflectance spectrum by the reflectance spectrum of said viewing window. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein said normalizing the production workpiece reflectance spectrum further comprises subtracting from said normalized reflectance spectrum of said production workpiece an intensity value of unity or 1.00. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein said combining normalized reflection spectrum of said production workpiece and said correction function comprises performing a multiplication of said normalized reflection spectrum of said production workpiece by said correction function. 17. The method of claim 1 further comprising enhancing the intensity of said reflectance spectrum of said viewing window by providing a reflective film on said viewing window. 18. A method of measuring the absolute reflectance spectrum of a workpiece through an optical sensing apparatus having a viewing window facing a workpiece support surface, comprising: measuring a reflectance spectrum of said viewing window; loading onto said workpiece support surface a reference sample having a predetermined absolute reflectance spectrum, and measuring through said viewing window a reflectance spectrum to produce a measured reflectance spectrum of said reference sample; computing a normalized reference sample reflectance spectrum by dividing said measured reference sample spectrum by said reflectance spectrum of said viewing window; computing a difference reflectance spectrum of said reference sample by subtracting unity from said normalized reference sample reflectance spectrum; computing a correction function by dividing said absolute reflectance spectrum of said reference sample by said difference reflectance spectrum of said reference sample, and storing said correction function; removing said reference sample from said workpiece support surface and performing the following steps for each one of a succession of production workpieces: (a) placing a successive one of said production workpieces onto said workpiece support surface and observing through said viewing window a reflectance spectrum of said one production workpiece to produce a production workpiece measured reflectance spectrum; (b) computing a normalized reflectance spectrum of said production workpiece by dividing said production workpiece measured reflectance spectrum by said window reflectance spectrum; (c) computing a difference reflectance spectrum of said production workpiece by subtracting unity from said production workpiece normalized reflectance spectrum; and (d) computing the absolute reflectance spectrum of said production workpiece by multiplying said production workpiece difference spectrum by said correction function. 19. A method of performing spectrographic workpiece metrology through an optical viewing window, comprising: calibrating the viewing window against a reference sample of a known absolute reflectance spectrum to produce a normalized reflectance spectrum of the reference sample; combining the normalized reflectance spectrum with the absolute reflectance spectrum to produce a correction function; measuring reflectance spectra of successive production workpieces through said window and normalizing each of said reflectance spectra against the viewing window reflectance spectrum; and transforming the normalized production workpiece reflectance spectra to absolute reflectance spectra using said correction function. 