The present invention is directed to a tool having a wrist mechanism that provides pitch and yaw rotation in such a way that the tool has no singularity in roll, pitch, and yaw. In one embodiment, a minimally invasive surgical instrument comprises an elongate shaft having a working end, a proximal end, and a shaft axis between the working end and the proximal end; and an end effector. A wrist member has a flexible tube including an axis extending through an interior surrounded by a wall. The wall of the flexible tube includes a plurality of lumens oriented generally parallel to the axis of the flexible tube. The wrist member has a proximal portion connected to the working end of the elongate shaft and a distal portion connected to the end effector. A plurality of actuation cables have distal portions connected to the end effector and extend from the distal portion through the lumens of the wall of the wrist member toward the elongate shaft to proximal portions which are actuatable to bend the wrist member in pitch rotation and yaw rotation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical instrument comprising: a shaft having a distal portion and a proximal portion; a wrist having a proximal portion and a distal portion, the proximal portion of said wrist coupled to the distal portion of said shaft, said wrist comprising: a flexible tubular support member extending from said the proximal portion of said wrist to the distal portion of said wrist; and an outer layer wrapped around said support member, said outer layer having a stiffness lower than a stiffness of said support member, said outer layer comprising at least three lumens extending from the proximal portion of said wrist to the distal portion of said wrist; said instrument further comprising: at least three actuation cables, each of said cables passing from the distal portion of said wrist through a corresponding one of said at least three lumens to the proximal portion of said wrist; an end effector coupled to the distal portion of said wrist; and at least one end effector control element coupled to said end effector, said end effector control element extending from said end effector through an end effector lumen through said shaft to the proximal portion of said shaft. 2. The instrument of claim 1, wherein said support member is a spring. 3. The instrument of claim 1, each of said at least three actuation cables further passing from the proximal portion of said wrist through said shaft to a proximal portion of said shaft, said instrument further comprising an actuating mechanism coupled to the proximal portion of said shaft, said mechanism comprising at least three rotary actuators coupled to corresponding ones of said at least three actuation cables. 4. The instrument of claim 3, wherein steering of said tube is controlled by coordinating the actuation of said rotary actuators. 5. The instrument of claim 3, said wrist further comprising the end effector lumen, the instrument further comprising: an end effector control mechanism coupled to the end effector control element, said end effector control mechanism coupled to the proximal portion of said shaft. 6. The instrument of claim 5, said end effector control element comprising an actuation cable, and said end effector control mechanism comprising a rotary actuator coupled to said actuation cable. 7. The instrument of claim 6, said end effector comprising a gripper, said end effector control element comprising a gripping cable, and said end effector control mechanism comprising a rotary actuator coupled to said gripping cable. 8. The instrument of claim 5, said end effector comprising an electrode, and said end effector control element comprising an electrical conductor. 9. The instrument of claim 1, said actuation cables configured to flex the distal portion of said wrist relative to the proximal portion of said wrist about a yaw axis and a pitch axis, said yaw axis intersecting said pitch axis. 10. The instrument of claim 1, the distal portion of said wrist coupled to a termination element, each of said at least three actuation cables inserted through a corresponding hole in said termination element. 11. The instrument of claim 10, said termination element comprising a rigid disk. 12. The instrument of claim 10, said termination element comprising a ring. 13. The instrument of claim 1, said wrist comprising at least one gap. 14. The instrument of claim 13, said at least one gap comprising a plurality of cutouts alternating in at least two orthogonal directions. 15. The instrument of claim 14, wherein said cutouts are in said flexible support member. 16. The instrument of claim 14, wherein said cutouts are in said outer layer. 