The present invention provides methods and kits useful for enriching, identifying and quantifying methylated DNA3 particularly hypermethylated CpG islands by digesting a sample with a methylation-sensitive restriction endonuclease and capturing methylated restriction fragments with a methyl-binding capture reagent. The methods of the invention may be used in the detection of cancer, particularly detection of prostate cancer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for enriching methylated DNA in a sample comprising: a) digesting the sample with a methylation-sensitive restriction endonuclease, wherein the sample comprises methylated DNA, thereby generating methylated DNA fragments; wherein the sample comprises less than about 100 ng of DNA; b) capturing at least one methylated DNA fragment generated in step a), thereby enriching for methylated DNA. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the methylated DNA comprises CpG island methylation. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the methylation sensitive restriction endonuclease is HpaII. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step a) further comprises digesting the sample with a second restriction endonuclease. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the second restriction endonuclease is AluI. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein capturing comprises: i) contacting the methylated DNA fragments of step a) with a capture reagent that binds methylated DNA, and ii) separating bound DNA from unbound DNA. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the capture reagent is selected from: a methylated-CpG binding domain (MBD) polypeptide and an anti-5-methylcytosine antibody. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the MBD polypeptide is MBD2. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the capture reagent comprises a portion of MBD2 comprising the MBD domain. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the capture reagent is bound to a solid support. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the capture reagent is attached to the solid support through a his tag. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the solid support is selected from a bead, a resin, a microtiter plate, a chip, or a test tube. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the solid support is a magnetic bead. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising eluting the captured DNA. 15. A method for identifying a methylated DNA sequence comprising: a) digesting a sample comprising the methylated DNA sequence with a methylation-sensitive restriction endonuclease, thereby generating methylated DNA fragments; wherein the sample comprises less than about 100 ng of DNA; b) capturing at least one methylated DNA fragment generated in step a), wherein the captured fragment comprises the methylated DNA sequence; c) contacting the methylated DNA fragment captured in step b) with a reagent that identifies the fragment, thereby identifying the methylated DNA sequence. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the reagent comprises at least one oligonucleotide that selectively hybridizes to the methylated DNA sequence. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the at least one oligonucleotide is a probe, extension primer or an amplification primer pair. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising amplifying the methylated DNA sequence with the amplification primer pair. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein amplifying comprises polymerase chain reaction. 20. A method for quantifying a methylated DNA sequence comprising: a) digesting a sample comprising the methylated DNA sequence with a methylation-sensitive restriction endonuclease, thereby generating methylated DNA fragments; wherein the sample comprises less than about 100 ng of DNA; b) capturing the methylated DNA fragments generated in step a), wherein the captured fragments comprise the methylated DNA sequence; c) contacting the methylated DNA fragment captured in step b) with a reagent that quantifies the methylated DNA sequence. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the reagent comprises at least one oligonucleotide that selectively hybridizes to the methylated DNA sequence. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the at least one oligonucleotide is an amplification primer pair. 23. The method of claim 22, comprising quantitatively amplifying the methylated DNA fragment with the primer pair. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein quantitatively amplifying comprises real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR). 25. The method of claim 20, wherein the sample comprises at least about 20 ng of DNA. 26. The method of claim 20 wherein an excess of at least about 500 fold excess unmethylated DNA is present in the sample. 27. The method of claim 20 wherein an excess of at least about 1000 fold excess unmethylated DNA is present in the sample. 28. The method of claim 20 wherein an excess of at least about 3000 fold excess unmethylated DNA is present in the sample. 29. The method of claim 20, wherein at least about 30 pg of the methylated DNA sequence is present in the sample. 30. The method of claim 20, further comprising detecting at least one additional methylated DNA sequence in the sample. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein at least about 5 methylated DNA sequences are detected. 32. The method of claim 20, wherein the method comprises a multiplex assay. 33. The method of claim 20, wherein at least about 10 different samples are analyzed. 34. A method for detecting prostate cancer in a subject comprising: a) digesting a sample from the subject comprising hypermethylated DNA sequences, with a methylation-sensitive restriction endonuclease, wherein hypermethylation of the DNA sequence is indicative of cancer, thereby generating methylated DNA fragments; wherein the hypermethylated DNA sequences comprise GSTP1, MDR1, ESR1 and PTGS2; b) capturing the methylated DNA fragments generated in step a), wherein the captured fragments comprise the hypermethylated DNA sequences; c) contacting the methylated DNA fragments captured in step b) with a reagent that detects the hypermethylated DNA sequences, thereby detecting cancer; d) quantifying the hypermethylated DNA sequences; and e) calculating a methylation index of the hypermethylated DNA sequences in the sample. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein the reagent is a primer pair that selectively hybridizes to and amplifies the hypermethylated DNA sequence. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the primer pair is selected from SEQ ID NOS: 5 and 6, SEQ ID NOS: 7 and 8, SEQ ID NOS: 9 and 10, and SEQ ID NOS: 11 and 12. 37. The method of claim 34, wherein the methylation index is at least three standard deviations greater than the background. 38. The method according to claim 34, wherein the methylation index is >0.2. 39. The method according to claim 34, wherein quantifying comprises quantitatively amplifying the hypermethylated DNA sequences. 40. The method according to claim 39, wherein quantitatively amplifying the hypermethylated DNA sequences comprises quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR). 41. A kit for quantifying a hypermethylated DNA sequence comprising: a first container containing a methylation-sensitive restriction endonuclease; a second container containing a MBD capture reagent; a pair of primers for amplification of the hypermethylated DNA sequence; and a control DNA sample comprising the hypermethylated DNA sequence treated with M.SssI. 42. A kit for detection prostate cancer comprising: a first container containing a methylation-sensitive restriction endonuclease; a second container containing a MBD capture reagent; at least one pair of primers for amplification of a DNA sequence that is hypermethylated in prostate cancer; and at least one control DNA sample comprising the hypermethylated DNA sequence treated with M.SssI. 43. The kit of claim 42, wherein the DNA sequence that is hypermethylated in prostate cancer is selected from a sequence of GSTP1, MDR1, ESR1 or PTGS2. 