A method for aligning a tape cartridge accessor with cartridges in cells of a tape cartridge magazine is provided. IR illumination is applied to an object expected to include a desired physical feature. Specular reflections are received from the illuminated object to create an image of the object. Dynamic image thresholding is applied to the image to select an optimum gray scale level of the image expected to include the desired physical feature. Bounding boxes are used to identify the location of the desired physical feature in the thresholded image.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for aligning a tape cartridge accessor with cartridges including bar codes stored in cells of a tape cartridge magazine, comprising: applying specular illumination, via an illumination source comprising an infrared light emitting diode (IR LED) disposed on a front of the tape cartridge accessor, to an object expected to include a desired physical feature during calibration; receiving specular reflections, via a complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) imager disposed on the front of the tape cartridge accessor, from the illuminated object to create an image of the object; applying dynamic image thresholding to the image, via the CMOS imager, to select an optimum gray scale level of the image expected to include the desired physical feature; using bounding boxes, via the CMOS imager, to identify the location of the desired physical feature in the thresholded image; and applying diffuse illumination, via the illumination source, to the bar codes when reading the bar codes. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the desired physical feature comprises a corner of a cell in a tape cartridge magazine. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the applying dynamic image thresholding enhances relevant portions of the image and suppresses irrelevant portions of the image. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the tape cartridge cells are used as fiducials to allow tape cartridge registration without fiducial markings. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the use of the tape cartridge cells as fiducials maximizes storage capability. 6. An article of manufacture comprising a program storage medium readable by a computer, the medium tangibly embodying one or more programs of instructions executable by the computer to perform a method for aligning a tape cartridge accessor with cartridges including bar codes stored in cells of a tape cartridge magazine, the method comprising: applying specular illumination, via an illumination source comprising an infrared light emitting diode (IR LED), to an object expected to include a desired physical feature during calibration; receiving specular reflections, via a complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) imager, from the illuminated object to create an image of the object; applying dynamic image thresholding, via the CMOS imager, to the image to select an optimum gray scale level of the image expected to include the desired physical feature; using bounding boxes to identify the location of the desired physical feature in the thresholded image; and applying diffuse illumination to the bar codes when reading the bar codes. 7. The article of manufacture of claim 6 wherein the desired physical feature comprises a corner of a cell in a tape cartridge magazine. 8. The article of manufacture of claim 6 wherein the applying dynamic image thresholding enhances relevant portions of the image and suppresses irrelevant portions of the image. 9. The article of manufacture of claim 6 wherein the tape cartridge cells are used as fiducials to allow tape cartridge registration without fiducial markings. 10. The article of manufacture of claim 9 wherein the use of the tape cartridge cells as fiducials maximizes storage capability. 11. A system for aligning a tape cartridge accessor with cartridges including bar codes stored in cells of a tape cartridge magazine, comprising: an infrared light emitting diode (IR LED) for applying specular illumination to an object expected to include a desired physical feature during calibration; means for receiving specular reflections from the illuminated object to create an image of the object, the means for receiving the specular reflection disposed on the front of the tape cartridge accessor; a complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) imager for applying dynamic image thresholding to the image to select an optimum gray scale level of the image expected to include the desired physical feature; means for using bounding boxes to identify the location of the desired physical feature in the thresholded image; and means for applying diffuse illumination to the bar codes when reading the bar codes, the means for applying the diffuse illumination disposed on the front of the tape cartridge accessor. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the desired physical feature comprises a corner of a cell in a tape cartridge magazine. 13. The system of claim 11 wherein the CMOS imager is configured to enhance relevant portions of the image and suppresses irrelevant portions of the image. 14. The system of claim 11 wherein the tape cartridge cells are used as fiducials to allow tape cartridge registration without fiducial markings. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the use of the tape cartridge cells as fiducials maximizes storage capability. 