An apparatus for dispensing a predetermined amount of adhesive weighted tape includes a controller adapted to receive a request for a desired amount of adhesive weighted tape and an elongated track member adapted to receive a supply of the adhesive weighted tape. A sensor is mounted adjacent a second end of the track member. The sensor in communication with the controller is operable to transmit a signal to the controller corresponding to a measured amount of weighted tape passing thereby. A motive apparatus in communication with the controller is adapted to move the weighted tape from a first end to the second end of the track member in response to the signal from the sensor. A cutting member disposed adjacent the second end of the track member is in communication with the controller and is adapted to cut the weighted tape in response to the signal from the sensor.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for dispensing adhesive weighted tape, comprising: a controller adapted to receive a request for a desired number of connected segments of adhesive weighted tape, each segment spaced from another segment by a gap; at least one elongated track member having a first end and a second end and adapted to receive a supply of the adhesive weighted tape having a free end engageable with said first end of said at least one track member, the track member including a pivoting portion that pivots the track member and said weighted tape between alignment with a first axis and alignment with a second axis; a sensor mounted on said at least one track member, said sensor in communication with said controller and operable to transmit a signal to said controller representing a number of tape segments carried to the sensor on said track member; a motive apparatus in communication with said controller and adapted to selectively move tape segments from said first end to said second end of said at least one track member; a cutting member in communication with said controller and adapted to cut said weighted tape at a gap between weighted tape segments that is exposed when the track and tape are stopped at the cutting member and pivoted between said axes. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said motive apparatus is a pair of drive rollers engaging said supply of weighted tape and driven by a motor in communication with said controller. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said motive apparatus comprises a shuttle member having at least one gripper arm extending therefrom, said shuttle member driven by a reversible motor in communication with said controller, said gripper portion in communication with said controller. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said at least one track member is a pair of track members oriented in parallel, said weighted tape being positioned on one of said track members and a shuttle member being positioned on another of said track members. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said cutting member includes a blade and an actuator for extending the blade to cut the weighted tape and to retract the blade after cutting the tape. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said cutting member includes an engagement arm for actuating said cutting member. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said weighted tape is disposed on a spool member. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said sensor is an electronic eye. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said track member is at least partially coated with a Teflon material. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said track member is formed in a U-shape. 11. The apparatus according to claim 1 including a guide frame positioned adjacent said second end of said track member. 12. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said pivoting portion is operable to be moved by an actuator, said actuator in communication with said controller. 13. A method of dispensing weight material for balancing a tire and wheel assembly, comprising the steps of: a) determining a desired number of connected segments of adhesive weighted tape to balance the tire and wheel assembly; b) communicating said desired number of segments of adhesive weighted tape to a controller; c) using a motive apparatus to move connected segments of adhesive weighted tape; d) detecting the desired number of segments of adhesive weighted tape moved to a reference position in step c); e) stopping the motive apparatus when the desired number of segments of adhesive weighted tape has passed the reference position; f) pivoting the adhesive weighted tape to produce a gap at the reference position between the desired number of segments of adhesive weighted tape and other segments of adhesive weighted tape; g) cutting the adhesive weighted tape at the gap to separate the desired number of segments of adhesive weighted tape from the other segments of adhesive weighted tape; and h) moving the desired number of segments of adhesive weighted tape to a predetermined location. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein step h) includes applying said cut weights to a predetermined location on a tire and wheel assembly. 15. The method according to claim 13 wherein steps c) and e) are performed by alternately engaging and disengaging a pair of drive rollers attached to a motor. 16. The method according to claim 13 wherein steps c) and e) are performed by alternately operating and stopping a shuttle member having a pair of gripper arms and driven by a reversible motor. 17. The method according to claim 13 wherein step d) is performed by a sensor. 18. The method according to claim 13 wherein step h) is performed by an operator. 19. The method according to claim 13 wherein step h) is performed by a robot. 