A control system is provided for automatically moving a machine along a desired path. The machine uses a "learn and follow" system in which the machine is first operated in a manual mode along a desired path. The control system learns the desired path and then operates the machine in a robotic mode to follow the desired path without operator control. If the machine moves away from the desired path when in the robotic mode, the location of the machine is corrected using GPS location signals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of moving a machine along a desired path comprising: operating a machine in a manual learn mode to traverse an entire desired path to be followed by the machine during subsequent operation in a robotic mode, the machine having first and second independently operable drive wheels, first and second motors coupled to the first and second drive wheels, respectively, and first and second displacement sensors associated with the first and second drive wheels, respectively, the first and second displacement sensors providing output data indicating displacement of the first and second drive wheels as the machine traverses the desired path; recording the output data from the first and second displacement sensors as the machine traverses the desired path during the manual learn mode to provide stored path data which maps the entire desired path to be followed by the machine during subsequent operation in the robotic mode; detecting GPS location signals at a plurality of locations along the desired path during the manual learn mode; storing a plurality of GPS locations which are linked to particular points along the desired path; operating the machine in the robotic mode in which the stored path data is used to control the first and second drive wheels to move the machine along the desired path without operator control and without the use of the stored GPS locations, the step of operating the machine in the robotic mode including comparing output data from the first and second displacement sensors taken when the machine is operated in the robotic mode to the recorded output data from the first and second displacement sensors taken during the manual learn mode, and adjusting the speed of the first and second drive wheels during the robotic mode so that the output data from the first and second displacement sensors in the robotic mode substantially matches the recorded output data from the first and second displacement sensors taken during the manual learn mode; detecting GPS location signals at a plurality of locations along the path traveled by the machine during the robotic mode; automatically comparing the GPS location signals at a plurality of locations along the traveled path during the robotic mode with the corresponding stored GPS locations that were linked to particular points along the desired path during the storing step; and automatically correcting the position of the machine if it is determined that the machine has moved away from the desired path by a predetermined amount based on the comparing step. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine is driven by an operator during the manual learn mode. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine is operated by remote control during the manual learn mode. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine is a mower and further comprising the step of optimizing the stored path data of the mower stored during the manual learn mode. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of selecting a path offset and adjusting the stored path data to provide the selected offset from the initially stored path data so that the machine does not follow the same path each time the machine operates in robotic mode. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting a desired angular slant for a path of travel during the robotic mode, and operating the machine at an angular slant compared to the stored path data. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing at least two machines located at different positions on the desired path and operating the at least two machines simultaneously in the robotic mode to traverse the desired path using the stored path data obtained from one machine during the manual learn mode. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein one of the machines is a master machine and at least one other machine is a slave machine. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the master machine communicates the stored path data to the at least one slave machine. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the master machine also communicates the stored GPS locations linked to particular points along the desired path to the at least one slave machine. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein a control panel includes a plurality of instructions for operation in the manual learn mode, the instructions including a plurality of turn instructions in which the controller automatically turns the machine by a selected number of degrees. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a reference signal from a fixed GPS base station; and determining a corrected GPS location at each of the plurality of points along the desired path based on detected GPS location signals and the reference signal received from the GPS base station. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the GPS reference signal is provided by a plurality of GPS base stations positioned in an array, each station communicating GPS data to a computer, the computer processing the GPS data received from the plurality of GPS base stations to provide the GPS reference signal. 14. The method of claims 12, further comprising billing a fee to a user based on an amount of time the machine is operated. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the fixed GPS base station is a ground-based GPS base station located at a spaced apart location from the machine, the reference signal being provided from the fixed GPS base station to the machine via at least one of a wireless communication network, a radio signal, and cell phone signal. 16. The method of claim 12, further comprising sending an identification from the machine to a remote computer; validating an account associated with the identification; transferred the reference signal from the fixed GPS base station to the machine if the account is validated; and logging an amount of time that the reference signal is provided to the machine. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of transmitting the stored path data to a remote computer separate from the machine for subsequent use. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the stored path data to provide a new path pattern based upon a new desired path. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of using at least one of a compass and a gyro to provide navigation assistance in the event of a loss of the GPS location signals during the robotic mode. 20. The method of claim 1, further providing a proximity sensor on the machine, the proximity sensor being configured to detect an obstacle in the desired path, and stopping the machine when an obstacle is detected by the proximity sensor. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the proximity sensor is one of a machine vision sensor, an ultrasonic sensor, an infrared sensor, a camera, a radar sensor and a laser scanner. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising monitoring performance data related to the machine to detect degradation in performance of the machine and providing an alert signal if degradation in performance is detected. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine is a zero turning radius mower. 24. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing at least one proximity sensor on the machine, the proximity sensor being configured to detect an obstacle in the desired path, and adjusting a path of the vehicle when an obstacle is detected. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of operating the machine in the robotic mode includes controlling the relative speed of the first and second independently operable drive wheels to steer the machine along the desired path without operator control and without the use of the stored GPS locations. 26. The method of claim 1, further comprising delivering a plurality of location markers from a marker delivery device coupled to the machine and detecting the plurality of location markers with an optical sensor coupled to the machine, and guiding the machine along the desired path based on the plurality of markers detected by the optical sensor. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the marker delivery device is a foam delivery device. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the foam is colored to facilitate detection by the optical sensor. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein the optical sensor is a camera. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second motors are hydraulic motors supported by the frame, and further comprising first and second hydraulic control valves coupled to the first and second hydraulic motors, respectively, the first and second hydraulic control valves being adjustable to control the first and second hydraulic motors, respectively, to adjust the speed and direction of rotation of the first and second drive wheels. 31. The method of claim 30, further comprising first and second motors coupled to the first and second hydraulic control valves, respectively, to adjust outputs from the first and second hydraulic control valves. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the first and second motors are stepper motors. 