A medical instrument assembly and robotic medical system are provided. The medical instrument comprises an outer probe having an elongated shaft, an inner probe having an elongated shaft coaxially disposed within the outer probe shaft, and actuating elements. The robotic medical system comprises the medical instrument assembly, a support on which the medical instrument assembly is slidably disposed, a user interface configured for generating at least one command, a drive unit coupled to the actuating elements, and an electric controller configured, in response to the command(s), for directing the drive unit to drive the actuating elements to independently effect movement of the outer and inner probes within at least one degree-of-freedom, and to linearly translate the medical instrument assembly along the support.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: an outer probe having an elongated shaft; an inner probe having an elongated shaft coaxially disposed within the outer probe shaft; a plurality of actuating elements configured to be driven by a drive unit to independently effect movement of each of the outer and inner probes within at least one degree-of-freedom; and a support on which the plurality of actuating elements is slidably disposed to distally advance and proximally retract the outer and inner probes. 2. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an axial rotation of the outer and inner probe shafts relative to each other. 3. The medical instrument assembly of claim 2, wherein the plurality of actuating elements comprises a first gear that encircles and effects the axial rotation of the outer probe shaft, and a second gear that encircles and effects the axial rotation of the inner probe shaft. 4. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises a deflection of at least one of the outer probe shaft and inner probe shaft. 5. The medical instrument assembly of claim 4, further comprising a cable extending within the at least one of the outer probe shaft and inner probe shaft, wherein the plurality of actuating elements comprises a pulley that pulls the cable to effect the deflection of the at least one of the outer probe shaft and inner probe shaft. 6. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the inner probe has an end effector associated with the inner probe shaft, and the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an actuation of the end effector. 7. The medical instrument assembly of claim 6, further comprising a cable extending within the inner probe shaft, wherein the plurality of actuating elements comprises a pulley that pulls the cable to effect the actuation of the end effector. 8. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising a driver interface module in which the plurality of actuators is contained and to which the outer and inner probe shafts are mounted, and wherein the driver interface module is slidably disposed on the support. 9. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the support has a carriage on which the plurality of actuators is slidably disposed. 10. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the support is configured for locating the plurality of actuating elements over a patient table. 11. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the outer and inner probe shafts are flexible catheter shafts. 12. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of actuating elements is slidably disposed on the support to distally advance and proximally retract the outer and inner probes in unison. 13. A robotic medical system, comprising: a medical instrument assembly having a coaxial arrangement of an outer probe and an inner probe, and a plurality of actuating elements coupled to the coaxial arrangement; a support on which the medical instrument assembly is slidably disposed; a user interface configured for generating at least one command; a drive unit coupled to the actuating elements; and an electric controller configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to drive the actuating elements to independently effect movement of each of the outer and inner probes within at least one degree-of-freedom, and to linearly translate the medical instrument assembly along the support. 14. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the electric controller is configured for directing the drive unit to drive the actuating elements to effect movements of each of the outer and inner probes corresponding to movements at the user interface. 15. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the user interface is located remotely from the drive unit. 16. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the electrical controller is coupled to the drive unit via external cabling. 17. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 18. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the actuating elements via external cabling. 19. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an axial rotation of the outer and inner probes relative to each other. 20. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises a deflection of at least one of the outer probe and inner probe. 21. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the inner probe has an end effector, and the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an actuation of the end effector. 22. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the medical instrument assembly has a driver interface module in which the plurality of actuators is contained and to which the coaxial arrangement is mounted. 23. The robotic medical system of claim 22, wherein the driver interface module comprises a drivable mechanism to which the coaxial arrangement is mounted, and a receiver to which the drivable mechanism is configured for being removably mated. 24. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the support has a carriage on which the medical instrument assembly is slidably disposed. 25. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the support is configured for locating the medical instrument assembly over a patient table. 26. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the coaxial arrangement is a flexible coaxial catheter arrangement. 27. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the medical instrument assembly is slidably disposed on the support to distally advance and proximally retract the outer and inner probes in unison. 