The present invention relates to eukaryotic host cells which have been modified to produce sialylated glycoproteins by the heterologous expression of a set of glycosyltransferases, including sialyltransferase and/or trans-sialidase, to become host-strains for the production of mammalian, e.g., human therapeutic glycoproteins. Novel eukaryotic host cells expressing a CMP-sialic acid biosynthetic pathway for the production of sialylated glycoproteins are also provided. The invention provides nucleic acid molecules and combinatorial libraries which can be used to successfully target and express mammalian enzymatic activities (such as those involved in sialylation) to intracellular compartments in a eukaryotic host cell. The process provides an engineered host cell which can be used to express and target any desirable gene(s) involved in glycosylation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for producing a recombinant sialylated glycoprotein in a Pichia pastoris host cell, the host cell selected or engineered to produce recombinant glycoproteins comprising a glycoform selected from the group consisting of Gal.sub.(1-4) GlcNAc.sub.(1-4) Man.sub.3GlcNAc.sub.2, the method comprising: (a) transforming into the host cell one or more nucleic acid molecules encoding a bifunctional UDP-N-acetylglucosamine-2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase, an N-acetylneuraminate-9-phosphate synthase, and a CMP-Sialic acid synthase; (b) transforming into the host cell a nucleic acid molecule encoding a CMP-sialic acid transporter; and (c) transforming into the host cell a nucleic acid molecule encoding a 2,6-sialyltransferase catalytic domain fused to a cellular targeting signal peptide encoded by nucleotides 1-108 of the S. cerevisiae Mnn2 wherein nucleotides 1-108 encoding the S. cerevisiae Mnn2 have the nucleotide sequence shown by nucleotides 13 to 120 of SEQ ID NO:103; wherein, upon passage of the recombinant glycoprotein through the secretory pathway of the host cell, a recombinant sialylated glycoprotein comprising a glycoform selected from the group consisting of NANA.sub.(1-4)Gal.sub.(1-4)GlcNAc.sub.(1-4)Man.sub.3GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoform is produced. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said method further comprises the step of transforming into the host cell one or more additional nucleic acids encoding one or more enzymes selected from the group consisting of glycosyltransferases, glycosidases and sugar transporters. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the 2,6-sialyltransferase is selected from the group consisting of human 2,6-sialyltransferase, rat 2,6-sialyltransferase, and mouse 2,6-sialyltransferase. 4. A method for producing a recombinant sialylated glycoprotein in a Pichia pastoris host cell, the host cell selected or engineered to produce recombinant glycoproteins comprising a GalGlcNAcMan.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoform, the method comprising (a) transforming into the host cell with one or more nucleic acid molecules encoding a bifunctional UDP-N-acetylglucosamine-2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase, an N-acetylneuraminate-9-phosphate synthase, and a CMP-Sialic acid synthase; (b) transforming into the host cell a nucleic acid molecule encoding a CMP-sialic acid transporter; and (c) transforming into the host cell a nucleic acid molecule encoding a 2,6-sialyltransferase catalytic domain fused to a cellular targeting signal peptide encoded by nucleotides 1-108 of the S. cerevisiae Mnn2 wherein nucleotides 1-108 encoding the S. cerevisiae Mnn2 have the nucleotide sequence shown by nucleotides 13 to 120 of SEQ ID NO:103; wherein, upon passage of the recombinant glycoprotein through the secretory pathway of the host cell, a recombinant sialylated glycoprotein comprising a NANAGalGlcNAcMan.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 glycoform is produced. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said method further comprises the step of transforming into the host cell one or more additional nucleic acids encoding one or more enzymes selected from the group consisting of glycosyltransferases, glycosidases and sugar transporters. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the 2,6-sialyltransferase is selected from the group consisting of human 2,6-sialyltransferase, rat 2,6-sialyltransferase, and mouse 2,6-sialyltransferase. 