Methods and apparatus for configuring process, environmental, industrial and other control systems generate and/or utilize models representing configurations of control systems and/or the systems controlled by them. Records of changes to the models or the configurations represented by them are maintained, thereby, for example, providing bases for determining current states, prior states and histories of changes. Objects in the model have characteristics, such as an object type characteristic and an area characteristic. Users can have corresponding permissions. A security mechanism apparatus controls access by users to the objects. Composite objects are defined by definition objects and are displayed in encapsulated or expanded formats. Objects can include an edit control type identifier that determines how they are presented for editing. Functionality responds to user commands by transferring characteristics of a first object depicted by the graphical user interface to a second object. Configuration-time formulas contained objects are evaluated to constants prior to downloading to the control system.
Claims What we claim is: 1. Apparatus for configuring a control system, comprising A. an editor that facilitates configuration of a control system and/or a system controlled thereby, the editor being coupled to the control system for at least receiving data therefrom, B. the editor displaying at least a portion of said configuration and including, in such display, one or more representations of entities in the control system and/or the system controlled thereby, C. the editor displaying, with one or more representations, process data received from the control system with respect to corresponding characteristics of the entities represented by those representations. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, where the editor displays, with said one or more representations, process data received from the control system with respect to connections between entities represented by those representations and other entities in the control system. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the editor facilitates any of creation and modification of a model representing said configuration, the model comprising a plurality of objects representing one or more entities the control system and/or system controlled thereby. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the characteristics displayed by the editor include one or more physical characteristics of the entities represented by the respective representations. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the characteristics displayed by the editor include unique identifiers of the entities represented by the respective representations. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the characteristics displayed by the editor include one or more of inputs, outputs, alarm limits, and control functions, data type, behavior, and data value range. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the process data is live data received from the control system. 8. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said representations of entities in the control system and/or the system controlled thereby are graphical representations. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said representations of entities in the control system and/or the system controlled thereby are icons. 10. Apparatus for configuring a control system, comprising A. a plurality of objects representing one or more entities in any of the control system and a system controlled thereby, B. an editor that facilitates configuration of the control system and/or the system controlled thereby, C. the editor displaying at least a portion of said configuration and including, in such display, one or more representations of objects comprising that portion of the configuration, D. at least one of the objects that is represented by a said displayed representation being coupled to the control system for at least receiving process data therefrom, E. the editor displaying, with one or more representations, process data received by the corresponding objects from the control system with respect to characteristics of the entities represented by those objects. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein at least one of the objects that is coupled to the control system retrieves said process data therefrom. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said at least one object retrieves data from the control system via an applications programming interface (API) thereof. 13. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said at least one object retrieves data from the control system via a database installer. 14. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the editor is a control loop diagram editor. 15. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said at least one object that is coupled to the control system represents a block. 16. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the editor facilitates any of creation and modification of a model that represents said configuration and that comprises a plurality of the objects. 17. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the characteristics displayed by the editor include one or more physical characteristics of the entities represented by the respective objects. 18. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the characteristics displayed by the editor include unique identifiers of the entities represented by the respective objects. 19. The apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the characteristics displayed by the editor include one or more of inputs, outputs, alarm limits, and control functions, data type, behavior, and data value range. 20. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the editor displays, with one or more representations, process data received by the corresponding objects from the control system with respect to connections between the entities represented by those objects and other entities in the control system and/or system controlled thereby. 21. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the process data is live data received from the control system. 22. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said representations of entities in the control system and/or the system controlled thereby are graphical representations. 23. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said representations of entities in the control system and/or the system controlled thereby are icons. 24. A method of operating an editor that facilitates configuration of a control system and/or a system controlled thereby, comprising A. displaying at least a portion of said configuration and including, in such display, one or more representations of entities in the control system and/or the system controlled thereby, B. displaying, with one or more representations, process data received from the control system with respect to corresponding characteristics of the entities represented by those representations. 25. The method according to claim 24, comprising displaying, with said one or more representations, process data received from the control system with respect to connections between entities represented by those representations and other entities in the control system. 26. The method according to claim 24, comprising facilitating, with the editor, any of creation and modification of a model representing said configuration, the model comprising a plurality of objects representing one or more entities the control system and/or system controlled thereby. 27. The method according to claim 24, comprising displaying one or more physical characteristics of the entities represented by the respective representations. 28. The method according to claim 24, comprising displaying characteristics that include unique identifiers of the entities represented by the respective representations. 29. The method according to claim 24, comprising displaying characteristics that include one or more of inputs, outputs, alarm limits, and control functions, data type, behavior, and data value range. 30. The method according to claim 24, wherein the process data is live data received from the control system. 31. The method according to claim 24, wherein said representations of entities in the control system and/or the system controlled thereby are graphical representations. 32. The method according to claim 24, wherein said representations of entities in the control system and/or the system controlled thereby are icons. 