A haptic device for human/computer interface includes a user interface tool coupled via cables to first, second, third, and fourth cable control units, each positioned at a vertex of a tetrahedron. Each of the cable control units includes a spool and an encoder configured to provide a signal corresponding to rotation of the respective spool. The cables are wound onto the spool of a respective one of the cable control units. The encoders provide signals corresponding to rotation of the respective spools to track the length of each cable. As the cables wind onto the spools, variations in spool diameter are compensated for. The absolute length of each cable is determined during initialization by retracting each cable In turn to a zero length position. A sensor array coupled to the tool detects rotation around one or more axes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A haptic interface device to provide haptic interaction to a user manipulating a tool, the haptic interface device comprising: an attachment point; a plurality of cables coupled to the attachment point, the plurality of cables comprising a first, a second, a third, and a fourth length of cable extending from the attachment point; a first tool translation effecter device having a first cable guide, a second tool translation effecter device having a second cable guide, a third tool translation effecter device having a third cable guide, and a fourth tool translation effecter device having a fourth cable guide, the first, the second, the third and the fourth cable guides positioned, relative to each other, such that each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth cable guides occupies a vertex of a tetrahedron, each tool translation effecter device having coupled thereto, a respective one of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth lengths of cable such that, as the attachment point moves, each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth lengths of cables is retracted or paid out accordingly by the respective tool translation effecter device, each tool translation effecter device including controlling means for selectively varying an active tension on the respective length of cable; metering means for metering each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth length of cables as they are retracted and paid out; and establishing means for establishing a respective distance between each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth cable guides and the attachment point, the establishing means including a memory configured to receive and store, prior to a complete shutdown of the haptic interface device, the respective distances between each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices and the attachment point, and to provide the stored distances during a startup procedure. 2. The haptic interface device of claim 1 wherein: the controlling means of each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices includes a spool and a motor coupled to rotatably drive the spool, the motor and spool selectively operable to wind and unwind the respective length of cable; and the metering means includes: counting means for counting fractions of rotations of the spool of each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices. 3. The haptic interface device of claim 1 wherein the establishing means includes a controller configured to direct the first tool translation effecter device to retract, during an initialization procedure, the first length of cable until the attachment point is at a selected position relative to the first tool translation effecter device. 4. The haptic interface device of claim 1 wherein the controlling means of each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices includes a rotatably driven spool, selectively operable to wind and unwind the respective length of cable, wherein the establishing means includes at least four brakes, each respective brake coupled to respective ones of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices, and each respective brake configured to prevent rotation of the respective spool of the respective translation effecter device coupled thereto when actuated. 5. The haptic interface device of claim 1 wherein the establishing means includes a sensor configured to sense, independent of the first tool translation effecter device, a position of the attachment point relative to the first tool translation effecter device and wherein the establishing means includes means for calibrating the first, the second, the third and the fourth translation effecter devices based at least on the sensed position of the attachment point. 6. The haptic interface device of claim 1 wherein the establishing means includes means for reestablishing the respective distances from time to time during a period of time in which the first, the second, the third and the fourth tool translation effecter devices are continuously powered and includes means for calibrating the first, the second, the third and the fourth translation effecter devices during the period of time based at least on the respective reestablished distances. 7. The haptic interface device of claim 1, further comprising: a sensor array at the attachment point configured to provide signals corresponding to an orientation of the attachment point. 8. The haptic interface device of claim 7 wherein the sensor array is configured to provide signals corresponding to roll, pitch, and yaw of the attachment point. 9. The haptic interface device of claim 1 wherein the establishing means comprises a calibration point at which the attachment point can be positioned, and from which the respective distances between each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth cable guides and the attachment point are known. 10. The haptic interface device of claim 1 wherein controlling means of each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices includes a rotatably driven spool, selectively operable to wind and unwind the second end of the respective cable; wherein metering means includes at least four encoders, each respective encoder arranged to provide signals corresponding to rotation of a respective spool of a respective translation effecter device; and wherein establishing means includes at least four brakes, each respective brake coupled to respective ones of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices, and each respective brake configured to lock in position a respective encoder when actuated. 11. A haptic interface device to provide haptic interaction to a user manipulating a tool, the haptic interface device comprising: an attachment point configured to receive the tool and to be moved at least within a workspace; a plurality of not more than four lengths of cables and a plurality of not more than four cable guides, each length of cable coupled to the attachment point and extending to a respective cable guide of the plurality of cable guides; a plurality of tool translation effecter devices, each having a spool with an end of a respective one of the plurality of cables coupled thereto such that, as the attachment point moves relative to that tool translation effecter device, the cable coupled thereto is retracted or paid out accordingly, each tool translation effecter device configured to selectively vary an active tension on the cable coupled thereto; and a first, a second, a third, and a fourth brake, each respective brake coupled to a respective tool translation effecter device of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices and configured to prevent rotation, prior to a power down of the haptic interface device and while the haptic interface device is powered down, of the respective spool of the respective tool translation effecter device having the respective brake coupled thereto in response to a controlled power down signal. 12. The haptic interface device of claim 11 wherein the plurality of tool translation effecter devices includes at least a first, a second, a third, and a fourth tool translation effecter device, each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices having a respective cable guide of the plurality of cable guides, and where the respective cable guides are positioned relative to each other such that each respective cable guide occupies a vertex of a tetrahedron. 13. The haptic interface device of claim 11, further comprising: establishing means for establishing, during an initialization procedure, a distance between each of the tool translation effecter devices and the attachment point. 14. The haptic interface device of claim 13 wherein the establishing means includes a sensor array is configured to provide signals corresponding to each of a roll, a pitch, and a yaw of the tool. 15. The haptic interface device of claim 11, further comprising a sensor array associated with the attachment point and configured to provide signals corresponding to at least one of roll, pitch, and yaw of the tool. 16. The haptic interface device of claim 11 wherein each respective tool translation effecter device of the plurality of tool translation effecter devices includes a respective encoder configured to provide a signal corresponding to rotation of the respective spool of the respective tool translation effecter device, and wherein each respective brake selectively locks in position the respective encoder of the respective tool translation effecter device having the respective brake coupled thereto when actuated. 17. A haptic device for operation by a user, comprising: a user interface tool configured to be manipulated by the user and moved within a volume of space; a first, a second, a third, and a fourth tool translation effecter device, each tool translation effecter device including a respective cable guide component coupled to a support structure in positions such that the respective cable guide components define between them a tetrahedron within the volume of space, each of the tool translation effecter devices further including a respective spool, a respective motor, and a respective encoder configured to provide a signal corresponding to rotation of the respective spool; and a plurality of cables coupled to the user interface tool and comprising at least a first segment of cable, a second segment of cable, a third segment of cable and a fourth segment of cable extending from the user interface tool, and wherein an end of each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth segments of cable are wound and unwound on the spool of a respective one of the tool translation effecter devices, each of the motors operable to drive the respective spool; and a first, a second, a third, and a fourth brake, each brake coupled to a respective tool translation effecter device of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices and configured to prevent rotation, prior to a power down of the haptic interface device and while the haptic interface device is powered down, of the respective spool of the respective tool translation effecter device having the brake coupled thereto in response to a controlled power down signal. 18. The haptic device of claim 17, comprising a sensor array configured to detect roll, pitch, and yaw of the user interface tool. 19. The haptic device of claim 18, further comprising a processor system coupled to receive information from the sensor array and coupled to receive the signals from the respective encoders, the processor system configured to determine movement and orientation of the tool therefrom. 20. The haptic device of claim 17, comprising a processor system that receives the signals from the respective encoders, the processor system configured to determine movement of the user interface tool therefrom. 21. The haptic device of claim 20 wherein the processor system is configured to compensate for changes in effective diameter of the spools of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices due to the respective cable being wound and unwound from the respective spool. 22. The haptic device of claim 20 wherein the processor system is configured to establish an initial position of the tool by retracting, in turn, each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth segments of cable to a known length position. 23. The haptic device of claim 20 wherein the processor system is configured to maintain a virtual environment within which the user interface tool is operated, and to apply the actual force vector as feedback from the virtual environment to the user interface tool. 24. The haptic device of claim 17, further comprising: a remote tool; and a processor system in communication with the remote tool and configured to control operation of the remote tool in accordance with the movement and orientation of the user interface tool. 25. The haptic device of claim 24 wherein the processor system is configured to apply an actual force vector as feedback from the remote tool to the user interface tool. 26. The haptic device of claim 17 wherein the device comprises no more than four cables. 27. The haptic interface device of claim 17 wherein each respective brake selectively locks in position the respective encoder of the respective tool translation effecter device having the respective brake coupled thereto when actuated. 28. A haptic device for operation by a user, comprising: a support structure; a port coupled to the support structure; a user interface tool configured to be manipulated by the user and moved within a volume of space, the user interface tool includes a tool shaft having a first and a second end, the tool shaft passing through the port such that the tool shaft pivots at the port and manipulation of the second end of the tool shaft is reflected in movement of the first end of the tool shaft; a first, a second, a third, and a fourth tool translation effecter device, each coupled to the support structure in positions such that the first, the second, the third, and the fourth tool translation effecter devices define between them a tetrahedron within the volume of space, each of the tool translation effecter devices including a respective spool and a respective encoder configured to provide a signal corresponding to rotation of the respective spool; and a first, a second, a third, and a fourth length of cable, each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth length of cable being coupled to the first end of the tool shaft and each of the first, the second, the third, and the fourth lengths of cable being wound and unwound on the spool of a respective one of the tool translation effecter devices. 29. The haptic device of claim 28, further comprising: a first sensor located at the port and coupled to the tool shaft, and configured to detect rotation of the user interface tool around an axis. 30. The haptic device of claim 28, further comprising: a first sensor configured to detect rotation of the user interface tool around an axis, and a second sensor coupled to the second end of the tool shaft and configured to detect gripping force exerted by the user. 31. The haptic device of claim 28 wherein the second end of the tool shaft is configured to provide for the user a simulation of a selected tool. 32. The haptic device of claim 31 wherein the selected tool is formed as one of a stylus, a pen, a pliers, a wrench, a forceps, a scalpel, an endoscope, or an arthroscope. 33. The haptic device of claim 28, further comprising: a feedback device coupled to the tool shaft and configured to selectively apply rotational force to the tool shaft. 34. The haptic device of claim 33 wherein the feedback device is located at the port. 35. The haptic device of claim 28, further comprising: a feedback device coupled to the second end of the tool shaft and configured to selectively resist gripping force exerted by the user. 36. A method, comprising: applying a selectively variable active tension to each of a plurality of cables having respective first and second ends, each of the plurality of cables coupled at its respective first end to a tool, and at its respective second end to a respective anchor point; measuring a change of cable length between the tool and each respective anchor point; establishing an initial length of cable between the tool and each of the anchor points; locking, during a shutdown procedure, each of the plurality of cables at the respective anchor point; storing, after the locking and before completing the shutdown procedure, a value indicative of a known length of each of the cables in a memory; and recovering the value indicative of the known length of each of the cables from the memory during a startup procedure. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein establishing an initial length of cable comprises moving the tool in turn to each vertex of a tetrahedron such that the length of cable between the tool and the respective the respective vertex is effectively zero, wherein a respective cable guide is positioned at each of the vertices of the tetrahedron. 38. The method of claim 36 wherein establishing an initial length of cable comprises: tracking a position of the tool independent of the measuring; and correlating the position of the tool with known positions of the anchor points. 39. A method of operating a cable based haptic interface device having four segments of cable and a specified calibration point, comprising: releasing four segments of cable in response to the cable based haptic interface device being powered on, wherein prior to the cable based haptic interface device being powered on the four segments of cable are locked; during a calibration of a cable based haptic interface device, positioning a tool having the four segments of cable coupled thereto at a specified single calibration point from which respective reference lengths of each of the four segments of cable is known, each segment of cable coupled to the tool and having a respective length extending from the tool to a respective vertex of a tetrahedron such that, as the tool is moved closer to any respective vertex of the tetrahedron, the respective length of the segment of cable extending from the tool to the respective vertex is drawn in, thereby decreasing the respective length of the respective segment of cable, and as the tool is moved away from any respective vertex of the tetrahedron, the respective length of the segment of cable extending from the tool to the respective vertex is fed out, thereby increasing the respective length of the respective segment of cable; establishing the respective length of each of the four segments of cable based at least on the tool being positioned at the calibration point and on the respective reference lengths of each of the four segments of cable; selectively applying active tension to each of the four segments of cable; tracking changes in length of each of the four segments of cable; and deriving a change of position of the tool on the basis of tracked changes in length of each of the four segments of cable. 40. The method of claim 39, comprising measuring rotation of the tool about one or more of three mutually perpendicular axes. 41. The method of claim 39, further comprising selecting a value of active tension applied to each of the four cable segments on the basis of the selected force vector that corresponds to the actual response feedback force vector to be applied to the tool. 42. The method of claim 39 wherein positioning a tool having four cables coupled thereto at a specified single calibration point from which respective reference lengths of each of the four cables is known includes manually positioning the tool at the specified single calibration point. 43. A method of operating a haptic device having a tool coupled to a first end of a first cable, comprising: as a tool is moved in a first direction, winding a first cable having a first end coupled to the tool onto a spool; as the tool is moved in a second direction which is opposite the first direction, unwinding the first cable from the spool; locking, during a shutdown procedure, the first cable at the spool; storing a value indicative of a known length of the first cable in a memory; and recovering the value indicative of the known length of the first from the memory during a startup procedure. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein the first cable is one of a plurality of cables having respective first and second ends, the first ends coupled to the tool and the respective second ends coupled to respective spools, and further comprising: for each respective cable of the plurality of cables, winding the respective cable onto a respective spool as the tool is moved in a respective first direction, unwinding the respective cable from the respective spool as the tool is moved in a respective second direction which is opposite the respective first direction, tracking a respective paid-out cable amount for each respective cable by counting fractional rotations of each of the respective spools, and limiting tracking errors introduced by changes in an effective diameter of the respective spool of the respective cable as the effective diameter changes in response to the respective cable being wound and unwound therefrom. 45. The method of claim 43 wherein the first cable is one of three cables, each cable having a respective first end coupled to the tool and providing a plane in which the tool has freedom to move, the plane defined by three cable guides, wherein each respective cable extends from the tool and to a respective one of the three cable guides. 46. The method of claim 43 wherein the first cable is one of four cables, each cable having a respective first ends coupled to the tool and providing a volume of space in which the tool has freedom to move defined four cable guides positioned at respective vertices of a tetrahedron, wherein each respective cable extends from the tool and to a respective one of the four cable guides. 47. A method of operating a cable based haptic device having a plurality of cables and a plurality of cable guides, comprising: for each segment of cable coupled to a tool and extending between the tool and a respective cable guide of a plurality of cable guides and further extending therefrom to a respective anchor point of a plurality of anchor points, applying a selectively variable active tension to the respective segment of cable; measuring a change of length of the segment of cable between the tool and each respective cable guide of the plurality of cable guides; establishing an initial length of cable between the tool and each cable guide of the plurality of cable guides; locking, during a shutdown procedure, each of the plurality of segments of cable at the respective anchor point; storing, after the locking and before completing the shutdown procedure, a value indicative of a known length of each of the segments of cable in a memory; and recovering the value indicative of the known length of each of the segments of cable from the memory during a startup procedure. 48. The method of claim 47 wherein establishing an initial length of cable comprises moving the tool in turn to each vertex of a tetrahedron such that the length of cable between the tool and the respective the respective vertex is effectively zero, wherein a respective cable guide is positioned at each of the vertices of the tetrahedron. 49. The method of claim 47 wherein establishing an initial length of cable comprises: tracking a position of the tool independent of the measuring; and correlating the position of the tool with known positions of the anchor points. 