A printhead is provided having a plurality of printing fluid ejection nozzle modules each having one or more printing fluid channels interconnected at respective complementary female and male end portions of the modules, a connector connected to the female or male end portion of one of the modules for communicating printing fluid from a fluid supply to the nozzles of all of the modules via the interconnected channels, and a sealing member connected to the female or male end portion of another one of the modules. The sealing member has female and male portions complementary to the female and male end portions of the modules and for sealing the channels of the connected module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead comprising: a plurality of printing fluid ejection nozzle modules each having one or more printing fluid channels interconnected at respective complementary female and male end portions of the modules; a connector connected to the female or male end portion of one of the modules for communicating printing fluid from a fluid supply to the nozzles of all of the modules via the interconnected channels; and a sealing member connected to the female or male end portion of another one of the modules, the sealing member having female and male portions complementary to the female and male end portions of the modules and for sealing the channels of the connected module. 2. A printhead according to claim 1, wherein a sealing adhesive is provided at the interface of the connected module and connector. 3. A printhead according to claim 2, wherein the sealing adhesive is an epoxy. 4. A printhead according to claim 1, wherein the nozzles of each module are incorporated in at least two integrated circuits. 5. A printhead according to claim 1, wherein integrated circuits of each module are supported by a respective channel member. 6. A printhead according to claim 5, wherein each module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the respective integrated circuits, channel member and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the integrated circuits. 7. A printhead according to claim 6, wherein each channel member has apertures arranged to direct the printing fluid from the respective channel to associated nozzles in the integrated circuits. 