A wafer processing chamber "chamber" is provided. Broadly speaking, the chamber allows a fluid flow and a fluid pressure within the chamber to be controlled in a variable manner. More specifically, the chamber utilizes removable plates that can be configured to control the fluid flow and the fluid pressure in an inner volume within the chamber. Also, the removable plates can be used to separate the inner volume within the chamber from an outer volume within the chamber. In this manner, the removable plates can be used to create a pressure differential between the inner volume within the chamber and the outer volume within the chamber. A lower pressure in the outer volume within the chamber requires less outer chamber strength to withstand the lower pressure. A lower outer chamber strength requirement translates into an overall decrease in chamber size.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for performing a wafer cleaning process, comprising: providing a chamber, including, a first volume configured to overlie a wafer; a plate configured to support a wafer, the plate further configured to define a second volume directly below the wafer when the wafer is supported on the plate, the plate including fluid inlets and fluid outlets defined in a periphery of the plate and outside a portion of the plate defined to support the wafer, the fluid inlets and fluid outlets oriented to direct a fluid flow through the first volume in a set pattern; a support structure configured to support the plate, the support structure further configured to define a third volume directly below the plate; placing a wafer on the portion of the plate defined to support the wafer; pressurizing the first volume, the second volume, and the third volume, the pressurizing causing the first volume to have a higher pressure than the second volume, the pressurizing further causing the second volume to have a higher pressure than the third volume; and providing a fluid to the first volume through the fluid inlets and removing the fluid from the first volume through the fluid outlets such that the fluid flows through the first volume in the set pattern, the fluid being formulated to effect a wafer cleaning process. 2. A method for performing a wafer cleaning process as recited in claim 1, wherein the fluid is a supercritical fluid. 3. A method for performing a wafer cleaning process as recited in claim 1, wherein the chamber is provided as part of a wafer processing cluster architecture. 4. A method for performing a wafer cleaning process as recited in claim 1, further comprising: allowing the fluid to move from the first volume to the second volume, and from the second volume to the third volume. 5. A method for performing a wafer cleaning process as recited in claim 1, wherein a higher pressure of the first volume relative to a pressure of the second volume serves to hold the wafer on the plate. 6. A method for performing a wafer cleaning process as recited in claim 1, further comprising: controlling a pressure differential between the second volume and the third volume within a ranges extending from about 1 atm to about 4 atm. 7. A method for performing a wafer cleaning process as recited in claim 1, wherein the set pattern of the fluid flow through the first volume is one of a linear flow pattern, a conical flow pattern, and a spiral flow pattern. 8. A method for performing a wafer cleaning process as recited in claim 1, wherein the plate includes a number of support surfaces upon which the wafer is supported, and wherein the second volume exists between the number of support surfaces of the plate and below the wafer when the wafer is supported on the plate. 9. A method for performing a wafer cleaning process as recited in claim 8, wherein the number of support surfaces are distributed in a substantially uniform manner across the portion of the plate defined to support the wafer. 10. A method for performing a wafer cleaning process as recited in claim 1, wherein the chamber includes an upper structure having a cavity defined therein, the method including an operation for securing the upper structure to the support structure such that the upper structure interfaces with the support structure outside a periphery of the plate, and such that the cavity within the upper structure defines the first volume. 11. A method for performing a wafer cleaning process as recited in claim 10, wherein the upper structure is secured to the support structure so as to form a seal at the interface between the upper structure and the support structure, wherein the seal serves to isolate the first volume from an environment outside of the chamber. 12. A method for cleaning a wafer, comprising: placing a wafer on a number of support structures of a support plate so as to form an underlying volume between the wafer and the support plate and between the number of support structures of the support plate, the support plate including a number of first fluid inlets and a number of first fluid outlets defined in a periphery of the support plate, the periphery of the support plate defined outside an area of the support plate on which the wafer is placed, the number of first fluid inlets and the number of first fluid outlets defined to provide a flow of a cleaning fluid through a wafer processing volume above the wafer, the support plate including a second fluid inlet and a second fluid outlet defined provide a flow of a pressurizing fluid through the underlying volume; enclosing the wafer processing volume over the wafer in a sealed manner; flowing the cleaning fluid over the wafer through the wafer processing volume from the number of first fluid inlets to the number of first fluid outlets in a set fluid flow pattern, wherein the set fluid flow pattern is defined by positions and orientations of the number of first fluid inlets and the number of first fluid outlets; flowing the pressurizing fluid through the underlying volume from the second fluid inlet to the number of second fluid outlet; and controlling a first pressure in the wafer processing volume to be greater than a second pressure in the underlying volume. 13. A method for cleaning a wafer as recited in claim 12, wherein the cleaning fluid is a supercritical fluid, and wherein the pressure within the wafer processing volume is controlled to maintain the cleaning fluid in a supercritical state. 14. A method for cleaning a wafer as recited in claim 12, wherein the set fluid flow pattern is one of a linear flow pattern, a conical flow pattern, and a spiral flow pattern. 