Automated systems and methods for delivery of a therapeutic or cosmetic substance into cutaneous, subcutaneous or intramuscular tissue, wherein an automated (e.g., robotic) arm is maneuvered to position a delivery device proximate a targeted location (e.g., an existing hair follicle, a location for implanting a skin filler, or a location for intradermal tattoo ink injection) on a patient's skin surface; and a substantially automated process is used to cause the delivery device to puncture the skin surface and penetrate to a desired depth into the tissue at the targeted location, and deliver the substance therein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated system for transcutaneous delivery of a therapeutic or cosmetic substance into a cutaneous, subcutaneous or intramuscular tissue region, comprising: an automated arm; a delivery device mounted on the automated arm; one or more cameras mounted on the automated arm; a processor configured to receive and process images acquired by the one or more cameras; and a controller operatively associated with the processor and configured to maneuver the automated arm based, at least in part, on images acquired by the one or more cameras and processed by the processor, wherein the automated arm is configured to be maneuverable to position the delivery device proximate a targeted location on a patient's skin surface, and one or both of the processor and controller is configured to cause (i) a distal end of the delivery device to puncture the skin surface at the targeted location and penetrate into a tissue to generate a tissue penetration track in the tissue, and (ii) a controlled delivery through the delivery device of a therapeutic or cosmetic substance into the tissue at multiple locations along the tissue penetration track while retracting the delivery device from the tissue penetration track. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the automated system is a robotic system, and the automated arm is a robotic arm. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising a container carried on the robotic arm, wherein the therapeutic or cosmetic substance is a flowable substance supplied from the container. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the container is removably coupled to the robotic arm. 5. The system of claim 2, further comprising a plurality of reservoirs carried on the robotic arm, each reservoir containing a respective therapeutic or cosmetic substance, wherein the delivery device may be selectively coupled to a respective one of the plurality of reservoirs. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the delivery device comprises a cannula or a needle removably coupled to the automated arm. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the images include intradermal or subcutaneous images. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the therapeutic or cosmetic substance comprises inductive dermal sheath cells and/or inductive dermal papilla cells. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a user interface that allows a system operator to input instructions relating to one or more of a location of the delivery device, an orientation of the delivery device, a penetration depth of the delivery device, a type of the therapeutic or cosmetic substance, or a quantity of the therapeutic or cosmetic substance to be delivered into a targeted tissue region. 10. The system of claim 1, the therapeutic or cosmetic substance comprising cellular matter pellets stored in a container carried on the automated arm, the system comprising means for dispensing from the container and delivering a controlled number of pellets to the target tissue region. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the dispensing and delivering means comprises a source of pressurization. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or both of the processor and controller further configured to cause one or more cellular matter pellets to be dispensed from the container into the target tissue region once the delivery device is positioned at a desired depth. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the therapeutic or cosmetic substances is selected from the group comprising hair growth cells, minoxidil, finasteride, androgens, anabiolic steroids, estrogen, phenytoin, retinoids, cyclosporine, Growth Hormone (GH), autologous platelet plasma, fat cells, syaluronic acis, collagen, clostridium botulinum (Botox.RTM.), natural polymer synthetic polymer, anesthetics, saline solution, and calcium particles. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the therapeutic or cosmetic substance comprises one or more cellular matter pellets, the system further comprising a container, a delivery chamber, and a valve, wherein the valve allows passage of a controlled number of pellets from the container into the delivery chamber when the chamber is opened. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or both of the processor and controller configured to cause the controlled delivery of the therapeutic or cosmetic substance while the delivery device is being withdrawn from the tissue penetration track. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the therapeutic or cosmetic substance aids in inducing hair growth and/or retention of hair. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the targeted location comprises one or more hair follicles and an axis of the delivery device forms an angle with a hair follicle of the one or more hair follicles as the delivery device punctures and penetrates the skin surface. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein a distal end of the delivery device at least partially surrounds the hair follicle as the delivery device penetrates the skin surface. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the therapeutic or cosmetic substance is delivered at multiple discrete locations in the cutaneous or subcutaneous tissue proximate the hair follicle. 20. An automated system for transcutaneous delivery of a therapeutic or cosmetic cellular or pharmacological matter into a cutaneous, subcutaneous or intramuscular tissue region, comprising: an automated arm; a cellular or pharmacological matter delivery device carried by the automated arm; one or more cameras; a processor configured to receive and process images acquired by the one or more cameras; and a controller operatively associated with the processor and configured to maneuver the automated arm based, at least in part, upon images acquired by the one or more cameras and processed by the processor; wherein the automated arm is configured to be maneuverable to position the cellular or pharmacological matter delivery device proximate a targeted location on a patient's body surface, and one or both of the processor and controller arc is configured to cause a controlled delivery of a therapeutic or cosmetic cellular or pharmacological matter at multiple locations along a tissue penetration track while the delivery device is being withdrawn from the tissue penetration track, the tissue penetration track being generated as the delivery device punctures the body surface at the targeted location and penetrates into the tissue. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the cellular or pharmacological matter is in the form of a flowable substance. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the cellular or pharmacological matter is in the form of a flowable substance, the system further comprising a plurality of reservoirs carried on the automated arm, each reservoir containing a respective therapeutic or cosmetic cellular or pharmacological matter, wherein the delivery device may be selectively coupled to a respective one of the plurality of reservoirs. 23. The system of claim 20, wherein the therapeutic or cosmetic cellular or pharmacological matter comprises matter that induces hair growth and/or retention of hair. 24. The system of claim 20, further comprising a user interface that allows a system operator to input instructions relating to one or more of: location of the delivery device, an orientation of the delivery device, a penetration depth of the cellular or pharmacological matter delivery device, a type of the cellular or pharmacological matter, or a quantity of the cellular or pharmacological matter. 25. The system of claim 20, wherein the therapeutic or cosmetic cellular or pharmacological matter comprises cellular matter pellets. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the cellular matter pellets comprise inductive dermal sheath cells and/or inductive dermal papilla cells. 27. The system of claim 20, wherein the automated system is a robotic system, and the automated arm is a robotic arm. 28. An automated system for transcutaneous delivery of a therapeutic or cosmetic substance into a cutaneous, subcutaneous or intramuscular tissue region, comprising: an automated arm; a delivery device carried by the automated arm; one or more cameras carried by the automated arm; a processor configured to receive and process images acquired by the one or more cameras; and a controller operatively associated with the processor and configured to maneuver the automated arm based, at least in part, on images acquired by the one or more cameras; wherein the automated arm is maneuverable to position the delivery device proximate a targeted location on a patient's skin surface, and one or both of the processor and controller configured to cause (i) a distal end of the delivery device to puncture the skin surface and penetrate into tissue at the targeted location, and (ii) a controlled delivery through the delivery device of a therapeutic or cosmetic substance into the tissue; and wherein the therapeutic or cosmetic substance comprises one or more cellular matter pellets, the system further comprises a container, a delivery chamber, a sensor, and a first valve, wherein the first valve allows passage of a controlled number of pellets from the container into the delivery chamber and the sensor provides information to control the first valve to prevent more than the controlled number of pellets entering the delivery chamber at a time, the system further comprises a second valve and the system is configured to allow a predetermined number of pellets to be delivered from the delivery chamber to the tissue when the second valve is open. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the one or more cellular matter pellets comprise inductive dermal sheath cells and/or inductive dermal papilla cells. 30. The system of claim 28, further comprising a source of pressurization in communication with the delivery chamber, the source of pressurization being activated when the first valve is closed to cause one or more of the predetermined number of pellets in the delivery chamber to be delivered to the target tissue region. 31. The system of claim 28, wherein the pellets are metered out of the delivery chamber at a constant dispensing rate as the delivery device is retracted out of the tissue. 