An automated pallet inspection and repair apparatus includes an inspection station and a repair station. The inspection station includes a laser that illuminates a pallet, a camera that collects the reflected light and a computer system. The computer system analyzes the output of the camera and acquires the pallet's geometry and topography. The design of the pallet is determined by the computer software. A decision to repair the pallet is made by comparing the acquired pallet data against the design criteria. If the pallet needs repair, a recipe of repair steps is constructed by inspecting each of the pallet's elements. The recipe is transmitted to the automated repair station.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for pallet inspection and repair comprising: an inspection station comprising at least one laser and at least one camera to collect light from the at least one laser after being reflected from a pallet comprising a number of elements to be inspected; a computer configured to run analysis software that analyses the reflected light, the analysis software configured to perform steps comprising receiving from the at least one camera a stream of three-dimensional points, each point having an x-, a y-, and a z-coordinate, filtering the stream of three-dimensional points to obtain a top surface geometry and topography by discarding points having a z-coordinate below a threshold, locating four corner points from the stream of three-dimensional points, the corner points having coordinates of (minimum x, minimum y), (minimum x, maximum y), (maximum x, minimum y), and (maximum x, maximum), identifying edges of each element based on the four corner points, thereby identifying a type and number of each element, determining a pallet design from the type and number of each element, loading a set of criteria from a database based on the pallet design, comparing each element of the pallet to the set of criteria to construct a list of repairs, and creating a repair recipe from the list of repairs; and an automated repair station configured to repair the pallet based on the repair recipe. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the inspection station moves the pallet relative to the at least one laser using a robotic arm that grips the pallet in subsequent repair steps. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the element type is selected from a list comprising any of a top board, a leading board, an intermediate board, a bearer, a stringer, a block, and a bottom board. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the repair station comprises a robot arm for holding the pallet during a repair step, tools for performing the repair step, and a controlling computer. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the controlling computer further comprises a robot controller, a programmable logic controller, and a repair recipe generation sub-system, with the robot controller comprising a master job that is in communication with the programmable logic controller, and a series of sub-jobs activated by the master job, with the master job performing a recipe step using the tools. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the master job performs the steps comprising determining position of the pallet in the robot arm, moving the pallet to a new position by activating the robot arm, initializing a first sub-job to perform a first repair step, initializing subsequent sub-jobs to perform subsequent repair steps, and terminating when the sub-jobs in the series of sub-jobs have been performed. 7. An apparatus for pallet inspection and repair comprising: an inspection station comprising at least one laser and at least one camera to collect light from the at least one laser after being reflected from a pallet comprising a number of elements to be inspected; and a computer configured to run analysis software that analyses the reflected light, the analysis software configured to performing the following receiving from the at least one camera three-dimensional points, each point having an x-, a y-, and a z-coordinate, filtering the three-dimensional points to obtain a top surface geometry and topography by discarding points having a z-coordinate below a threshold, identifying a type and number of each element based on the top surface geometry and topography, determining a pallet design from the type and number of each element, comparing each element of the pallet to a database to generate a list of repairs, and generating a repair recipe from the list of repairs. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising a repair station configured to repair the pallet based on the repair recipe. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the inspection station moves the pallet relative to the at least one laser in subsequent repair steps. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a transport system for moving the pallet during inspection and repair. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the transport system comprises a conveyor. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the repair station comprises tools for performing a repair step. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the repair station comprises a controlling computer comprising a controller for moving the pallet, a programmable logic controller, and a repair recipe generation sub-system, with the controller comprising a master job that is in communication with the programmable logic controller, and a series of sub-jobs activated by the master job, with the master job performing a recipe step using the tools. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the master job performs the steps comprising determining position of the pallet, moving the pallet to a new position, initializing a first sub-job to perform a first repair step, initializing subsequent sub-jobs to perform subsequent repair steps, and terminating when the sub-jobs in the series of sub-jobs have been performed. 15. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the analysis software is further configured to performing the following to identify the type and number of each element: locating four corner points from the three-dimensional points, the corner points having coordinates of (minimum x, minimum y), (minimum x, maximum y), (maximum x, minimum y), and (maximum x, maximum y); and identifying edges of each element based on the four corner points, thereby identifying the type and number of each element. 16. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the analysis software is further configured to loading a set of criteria from the database based on the pallet design, with the set of criteria being compared to each element to generate the list of repairs. 17. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the element type is selected from a list comprising at least one of top board, a leading board, an intermediate board, a bearer, a stringer, a block, and a bottom board. 