An on-the-fly analog switching method and system for providing a switching time of less than one second between energy levels and laser heads for laser shock peening applications. An analog switch is used with variable resistance devices that produce a switching time of less than one second. One advantage of the present invention is that a switching time of less than one second is provided which provides for an energy and time efficient system. The laser shock peening process is never delayed for switching purposes as the switching occurs during the standard pause between treated linear areas.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling a power level, the system comprising: a laser apparatus comprising a first circuit having a first impedance and a second circuit having a second impedance; the first circuit being configured to generate a first output power level in the laser apparatus; a switching device configured and disposed to connect and disconnect the second circuit in series with the first circuit, wherein the switching device connects the second circuit to the first circuit in a finite time that is less than one second and disconnects the second circuit from the first circuit in a finite time that is less than one second; and wherein the connection of the second circuit to the first circuit generates a second output power level from the laser apparatus. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the switching device comprises a first control relay and a second control relay, the first control relay being connected in series with the second impedance and the second control relay being connected in parallel with the second impedance. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the first control relay is a normally open control relay and the second control relay is a normally closed control relay. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the switching device is configured to connect the second circuit in parallel with the first circuit. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the switching device comprises a control relay, the control relay being connected in series with the second impedance. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the control relay is a normally closed control relay. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the first impedance is a first resistance and the second impedance is a second resistance. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein: the first output power level is greater than the second output power level in response to the second circuit being connected in series with the first circuit; and the first output power level is less than the second output power level in response to the second circuit being connected in parallel to the first circuit. 9. The system of claim 1: wherein the switching device is configured and disposed to connect and disconnect an at least one additional circuit from the second circuit, wherein the at least one additional circuit comprises an additional impedance; wherein the switching device connects the at least one additional circuit to the second circuit in a finite time that is less than one second and disconnects the at least one additional circuit from the second circuit in a finite time that is less than one second; and wherein the connection of the at least one additional circuit to the second circuit generates an additional output power level from the laser apparatus. 10. A system for controlling a power level in a laser head of a laser apparatus used with a laser shock peening process, the system comprising: a laser control computer, the laser control computer being configured to generate a signal to trigger the laser head; a digital delay generator, the digital delay generator being configured to receive the trigger signal from the laser control computer, the digital delay generator being configured to incorporate a predetermined delay into the trigger signal to generate a delayed trigger signal; a laser pulse forming network charger, the laser pulse forming network charger being configured to receive and provide a firing signal to the laser head to initiate operation of the laser head; a control arrangement, the control arrangement being configured to provide the predetermined delay to the digital delay generator; and wherein the predetermined delay being used to control an output power level of the laser head. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the control arrangement is configured to receive a user input relating to the predetermined delay. 12. A method for controlling a laser apparatus in a laser shock peening process, the method comprising the steps of: providing a laser apparatus configured to perform a laser shock peening process, the laser apparatus having a first circuit with a first impedance, and the first circuit being configured to provide a first energy level; connecting a second circuit to the first circuit, the second circuit comprising a second impedance and a switching arrangement, the switching arrangement being configured to connect the second impedance to the first circuit to provide a second energy level or to isolate the second impedance from the first circuit; controlling the switching arrangement to isolate the second impedance, wherein the switching arrangement isolates the second impedance in less than one second; operating the laser apparatus at the first energy level in response to the second impedance being isolated by the switching arrangement; controlling the switching arrangement to connect the second impedance, wherein the switching arrangement connects the second impedance in less than one second; and operating the laser apparatus at the second energy level in response to the second impedance being connected. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of connecting an additional circuit to the first circuit, the additional circuit comprising an additional impedance and an additional switching arrangement, the additional switching arrangement being configured to connect the additional impedance to the first circuit to provide an additional energy level or to isolate the additional impedance from the first circuit. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of switching between the first energy level and the second energy level a plurality of times during a laser shock peening process. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of switching between the first energy level and the second energy level includes: repeating the steps of controlling the switching arrangement to isolate the second impedance and operating the laser apparatus at the first energy level to switch to the first energy level; and repeating the steps of controlling the switching arrangement to connect the second impedance and operating the laser apparatus at the second energy level to switch to the second energy level. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the switching arrangement connects the second impedance in parallel with the first impedance. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the switching arrangement connects the second impedance in series with the first impedance. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the switching arrangement comprises a first switching device and a second switching device and the step of switching between the first energy level and the second energy level includes controlling operation of the first switching device and the second switching device to avoid an open circuit condition. 