A method for the recombination of a gene is disclosed. The method involves the design of unpaired forward and reverse primers having homology to the 5' end of one template and to the 3' end of another template. Short primer extension periods results in a recombined template having paired 5' and 3' ends that can then be amplified. The amplified sample is devoid of any parental template.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for the recombination of a double stranded first nucleic acid template and a double stranded second nucleic acid template wherein the method comprises: a) providing the double-stranded first nucleic acid template with the second double-stranded nucleic acid template, wherein the first and the second double-stranded nucleic acid templates have at least 50% identity to each other, wherein the 5' end of the sense strand of the first nucleic acid template is of different sequence than the 5' end of the sense strand of the second nucleic acid template and the 3' end of the sense strand of the first nucleic acid template is of different sequence than the 3' end of the sense strand of the second nucleic acid template, and wherein each of the 5' ends and the 3' ends of the sense strands of the first and the second nucleic acid templates are between 6 to 200 nucleotides in length; b) providing a forward primer that will only anneal to the 3' end of the antisense strand of the first nucleic acid template; c) providing a reverse primer that will only anneal to the 3' end of the sense strand of the second nucleic acid template; d) contacting the first and the second nucleic acid templates of (a) with the primers of (b) and (c) in a replication composition whereby a short, abbreviated primer directed extension of the primers is conducted; e) terminating the extension of the primers of (d) after the addition of no more than about 1000 nucleotides; f) separating the extended forward and reverse primers from the first and the second nucleic acid templates; g) re-annealing the extended forward and reverse primers with the first and the second nucleic acid templates at low annealing temperatures whereby the extended primers anneal to either the first or the second nucleic acid template in a second replication composition whereby short, abbreviated primer-directed extension is conducted; and h) repeating steps (e)-(g) until at least one full-length extension product is generated comprising the recombination of the first and the second double stranded nucleic acid templates. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the first and the second nucleic acid templates have at least 70% identity to each other. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the first and the second nucleic acid templates have at least 90% identity to each other. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein, prior to step (a), the first and the second nucleic acid templates are contacted with an enzyme under conditions whereby the templates are nicked. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein either one or both of the first and the second nucleic acid templates are comprised on a plasmid. 6. A method for the recombination of a first nucleic acid antisense single-stranded template and a second nucleic acid sense single-stranded template wherein the method comprises: a) providing the first antisense single-stranded nucleic acid template and the second sense single-stranded nucleic acid template wherein a complementary sense strand of the first antisense single-stranded nucleic acid template has at least 50% identity to the second sense single-stranded nucleic acid template; b) providing a forward primer that will only anneal to the 3' end of the first nucleic acid template, wherein the 3' end of the first nucleic acid template is between 6 to 200 nucleotides in length; c) providing a reverse primer that will only anneal to the 3' end of the second nucleic acid template, wherein the 3' end of the second nucleic acid template is between 6 to 200 nucleotides in length; d) contacting the first and second nucleic acid templates of (a) with the primers of (b) and (c) in a replication composition whereby short, abbreviated primer directed extension of the primers is conducted; e) terminating extension of the primers of (d) after the addition of no more than about 1000 nucleotides; f) separating the extended forward and reverse primers from the first and the second nucleic acid templates; g) re-annealing the extended forward and reverse primers with the first and the second nucleic acid templates at low annealing temperatures whereby the extended primers anneal to either the first or the second nucleic acid template whereby short, abbreviated primer-directed extension is conducted; and h) repeating steps (e)-(g) until at least one full-length extension product is generated comprising the recombination of the first and the second nucleic acid templates. 7. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the length of the first and the second nucleic acid templates is from about 0.03 kB to about 20 kB. 8. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the primer extension of step (d), (g) and/or (h) is terminated after the addition of no more than about 500 nucleotides. 9. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the primer extension of step (d), (g) and/or (h) is terminated after the addition of no more than about 300 nucleotides. 10. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the primer extension of step (d), (g) and/or (h) is terminated after the addition of no more than about 20-50 nucleotides. 11. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the termination step is selected from the group consisting of: altering the annealing temperature, altering the pH, and adding a polymerase inhibitor. 12. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the 3' ends of the antisense strands of the first and second nucleic acid templates are engineered flanking regions. 13. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the 3' ends of the sense strands of the first and second nucleic acid templates are engineered flanking regions. 14. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the at least one full-length extension product is optionally purified from the first and the second nucleic acid templates. 15. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the full-length extension product is optionally amplified. 16. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6, wherein the forward and reverse primers are from about 6 to about 200 nucleotides in length. 17. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the primer directed extension is accomplished using a technique selected from the group consisting of polymerase chain reaction, ligase chain reaction and strand displacement amplification. 18. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein, prior to step (a), the first and the second nucleic acid templates are linear. 19. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein either one or both of the first and the second nucleic acid template are allelic variants. 20. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the full-length extension product of (h) comprising the recombined first and the second templates is further subjected to steps (b)-(g). 21. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the forward and reverse primers are of different sequence from one another. 22. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein the forward and reverse primers have the same sequence as one another. 23. The method according to either of claim 1 or 6 wherein: a) the 3' end of the antisense strand of the first template comprises a first unique restriction site, and wherein the 3' end of the sense strand of the second template comprises a second unique restriction site wherein said first unique restriction site is not present in the second template and wherein the second unique restriction site is not present in said first template; and b) wherein the full-length extension product comprises the first and the second unique restriction sites. 24. The method according to claim 23 further comprising: a) restricting the full-length extension product with either one or both of a first restriction enzyme which cuts at said first unique restriction site and a second restriction enzyme which cuts at said second unique restriction site to generate a restricted full-length extension product; and b) ligating said restricted full-length extension product into a vector. 25. A method for the generation of a recombined polypeptide having altered properties comprising: a) providing a double-stranded first nucleic acid template encoding a first polypeptide with a second double-stranded nucleic acid template encoding a second polypeptide, wherein the first and the second double-stranded nucleic acid templates having at least 50% identity to each other, and wherein the 5' end of the sense strand of the first nucleic acid template is of different sequence than the 5' end of the sense strand of the second nucleic acid template and the 3' end of the sense strand of the first nucleic acid template is of different sequence than the 3' end of the sense strand of the second nucleic acid template, and wherein each of the 5' end and the 3' end of the sense strands of the first and the second nucleic acid templates are between 6 to 200 nucleotides in length; b) providing a forward primer that will only anneal to the 3' end of the antisense strand of the first nucleic acid template; c) providing a reverse primer that will only anneal to the 3' end of the sense strand of the second nucleic acid template d) contacting the first and the second nucleic acid templates of (a) with the primers of (b) and (c) in a replication composition whereby short, abbreviated primer directed extension of the primers takes place is conducted; e) terminating extension of the primers of (d) after the addition of no more than about 1000 nucleotides; f) separating the extended forward and reverse primers from the first and the second nucleic acid templates; g) re-annealing the extended forward and reverse primers with the first and the second templates at low annealing temperatures whereby the extended primers anneal to either the first or the nucleic second template whereby short, abbreviated primer-directed extension is conducted; h) repeating steps (e)-(g) until at least one full-length extension product is generated comprising the recombination of the first and the second nucleic acid templates; i) placing the full-length extension product under control of expression control sequences for expressing the full-length extension product of (h) to generate a recombined polypeptide; and j) screening the recombined polypeptide of (i) for altered properties as compared with the polypeptide encoded by either the first or the second nucleic acid template; wherein the full length extension product encodes a polypeptide with properties altered from that of the polypeptide encoded by either the first or the second nucleic acid template. 26. The method according to claim 25 wherein the first and the second nucleic acid templates have at least 70% identity to each other. 27. The method according to claim 25 wherein the first and the second nucleic acid templates have at least 90% identity to each other. 28. A method for the generation of a recombined polypeptide having altered properties comprising: a) providing a first antisense single-stranded nucleic acid template obtained from double stranded DNA encoding a first polypeptide, and a second sense single-stranded nucleic acid template, obtained from double stranded DNA encoding a second polypeptide wherein the double stranded DNA encoding the first and the second polypeptide have at least 50% identity to each other; b) providing a forward primer that will only anneal to the 3' end of the first nucleic acid template, wherein the 3' end of the first nucleic acid template is between 6 to 200 nucleotides in length; c) providing a reverse primer that will only anneal to the 3' end of the second nucleic acid template, wherein the 3' end of the second nucleic acid template is between 6 to 200 nucleotides in length; d) contacting the first and the second nucleic acid templates of (a) with the primers of (b) and (c) in a replication composition whereby short, abbreviated primer directed extension of the primers is conducted; e) terminating extension of the primers of (d) after the addition of no more than about 1000 nucleotides; f) separating the extended forward and reverse primers from the first and the nucleic acid second templates; g) re-annealing the extended forward and reverse primers with the first and the second templates at low annealing temperatures whereby the extended primers anneal to either the first or the nucleic acid second nucleic acid templates whereby short, abbreviated primer-directed extension is conducted; h) repeating steps (e)-(g) until at least one full-length extension product is generated comprising the recombination of the first and the second nucleic acid templates; i) placing the full-length extension product under control of expression control sequences for expressing the full-length extension product of (h) to generate a recombined polypeptide; and j) screening the recombined polypeptide of (i) for altered properties as compared with the polypeptide encoded by either the first or the second double-stranded nucleic acid template; wherein the full length extension product encodes a polypeptide with properties altered from that of the polypeptide encoded by either the first or the second double stranded nucleic acid template. 29. The method according to either of claim 25 or 28 wherein the primer extension of step (d), (g) and/or (h) is terminated after the addition of no more than about 500 nucleotides. 30. The method according to either of claim 25 or 28 wherein the primer extension of step (d), (g) and/or (h) is terminated after the addition of no more than about 300 nucleotides. 31. The method according to either of claim 25 or 28 wherein the primer extension of step (d), (g) and/or (h) is terminated after the addition of no more than about 20-50 nucleotides. 32. The method according to either of claim 25 or 28 wherein the termination step is selected from the group consisting of: altering the annealing temperature, altering the pH, and adding a polymerase inhibitor. 33. The method according to either of claim 25 or 28 wherein the 3' end of either the first or the second nucleic acid template is from about 6 to about 200 bases in length. 34. The method according to either of claim 25 or 28 wherein the 3' ends of the antisense strands of the first and second nucleic acid templates are engineered flanking regions. 35. The method according to either of claim 25 or 28 wherein the 3' ends of the sense strands of the first and second nucleic acid templates are engineered flanking regions. 36. The method according to either of claim 25 or 28 wherein the forward and reverse primers are about 6-200 nucleotides in length. 37. The method according to either of claim 25 or 28 wherein the primer directed extension is accomplished using a technique selected from the group consisting of polymerase chain reaction, ligase chain reaction and strand displacement amplification. 38. The method according to either of claim 25 or 28 wherein the recombined polypeptide is an enzyme. 39. The method according to claim 38 wherein the enzyme is selected from the group consisting of: a protease, an esterase, a pectinase, a xylanase, amylase, a cellulase, a levanase, a lipase, a RNase, a nucleotidase, a transfructosylase, a lactase, a desaturases, a dehydrogenase, an oxidases, a transferases, an isomerases, a dehydratases, a desulfurases, a hydratases, a phosphatases, a kinases, a glucose isomerase phosphatase, a phenylalanine ammonia-lyase, a cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase, an o-methyltransferase, a cinnamate 4-hydroxylase, a 4-coumarate-CoA ligase, a cinnamoyl CoA reductase, and an acetolactate synthase. 40. The method according to claim 39 wherein the enzyme is a glycerol dehydratase. 41. The method according to claim 38 wherein the properties of the enzyme are screened with respect to properties selected from the group consisting of: enzyme activity, substrate specificity, stability against inhibitors, thermal stability, protease stability, solvent stability, detergent stability, and folding properties. 42. The method according to either of claim 25 or 28 wherein the recombined polypeptide is not an enzyme. 43. The method according to claim 42 wherein the recombined polypeptide is selected from the group consisting of cytokines, glycoproteins, growth factors, biotin binding proteins, immunoglobin binding proteins, structural proteins, viral proteins, envelope proteins and microbial antigens. 44. The method according to claim 42 wherein the properties of the polypeptide are screened with respect to properties selected from the group consisting of: thermal stability, protease stability, solvent stability, detergent stability, folding properties, structural properties. 45. A method for the recombination of nucleic acid templates of interest comprising: a) providing an antisense single-stranded first nucleic acid template and a sense single-stranded second nucleic acid template wherein a complementary sense strand of the first antisense single-stranded nucleic acid template has at least 50% identity to the second sense single-stranded nucleic acid template; b) providing a forward primer that will only anneal to the 3' end of the antisense strand of the first nucleic acid template wherein the 3' end of the antisense strand of the first nucleic acid template is between 6 to 200 nucleotides in length; c) providing a reverse primer that will only anneal to the 3' end of the sense strand of the second nucleic acid template wherein the 3' end of the sense strand of the second nucleic acid template is between 6 to 200 nucleotides in length; d) contacting the first and the second nucleic acid templates of (a) with the primers of (b) and (c) in a replication composition whereby short, abbreviated primer directed extension of the primers is conducted; e) terminating extension of the primers of (d) after the addition of no more than about 1000 nucleotides; f) separating the extended forward and reverse primers from the first and the second nucleic acid templates; g) re-annealing the extended forward and reverse primers with the first and the second nucleic acid templates at low annealing temperatures whereby the extended primers anneal to either the first or the second nucleic acid templates whereby short, abbreviated primer-directed extension is conducted; and h) repeating steps (e)-(g) until at least one full-length extension product is generated comprising the recombination of the first and the second single stranded nucleic acid templates. 