A combination of a FOUP (front opening unified pod) system and a reticle system utilized for the transport of wafers and a reticle system, the latter of which are used for transporting reticles from a first fabrication site to a further site at another location, and which provides for a unified system enabling the automated and trackable delivery of the reticles between these sites. Provided is a modified FOUP base structure, which is adapted to retain a reticle and to be able to employ existing equipment in a fabrication site which only necessitates a minimal modification of the equipment in order to render the latter universally adaptable to the combination of the systems.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An arrangement for combining a front opening unified pod (FOUP) system and a reticle system for the transport of semiconductor wafers between processing sites, comprising: structure modifying a FOUP so as to facilitate said FOUP transporting at least one reticle carrying a semiconductor wafer between a plurality of processing sites; an adapter for said at least one reticle configured to act directly on said at least one reticle, said adapter facilitating insertion and transport of said at least one reticle in said FOUP; and said adapter comprises a plate member insertable into said FOUP, said plate member includes upstanding kinematic guide pins arrayed to maintain wafers in predetermined positions on said at least one reticle during transport in said FOUP. 2. An arrangement as claimed in claim 1, wherein said FOUP includes structure for carrying up to at least three said reticles in a superimposed stacked position during transport of said reticles between said sites, and wherein said structure comprises a portion of a FOUP door assembly. 3. An arrangement as claimed in claim 2, wherein an interface stocker system is provided for the transport of reticles in Reticle Storage Pods (RSPs) to said FOUP adapter, said stocker system including a reticle to FOUP adapter (RFA) storage for supplying reticles to said FOUP. 4. An arrangement as claimed in claim 3, wherein overhead transport structure (OHT) is provided for positioning said FOUP; a further overhead transport structure (RSP OHT) is provided for positioning said Reticle Storage Pods (RSPs) proximate said FOUPs; structure for introducing said Reticle Storage Pods into said FOUPs and closing said FOUPs; and conveying structure for transporting the Reticle Storage Pod-containing FOUPs (RSP FOUPs) to a specified manufacturing or processing site. 5. An arrangement as claimed in claim 4, wherein sensors provide information and control for the loading and unloading of said Reticle Storage Pods (RSPs) into and from said front opening unified pods (FOUPs). 6. A system for transporting and tracking Reticle Storage Pods (RSPs) in Reticle Storage Pod--FOUPs (RSP FOUPs), between sites, comprising: an arrangement for tracking RSPs via RF pill rewriting to a reticle FOUP adapter (RFA) or FOUP RF pill and resetting thereof after transport from an overhead transport vehicle (OHV) at a destination transfer site, whereby said RSP is removed from the RFA in said FOUP; a conveyor arrangement transports said RSP FOUPs between said manufacturing sites, and reconveyed emptied FOUPs to an initial said site for reloading thereof with Reticle Storage Pods carrying semiconductor wafers; a structure is provided for transporting a six-pack of said reticles in a FOUP; wherein each said FOUP incorporates reticle adapter structure configured to act directly on said reticles to facilitate transport of said Reticle Storage Pods in said FOUPs in a combined operative transport mode; said reticle adapter structure comprises a plate member insertable into said FOUP, said plate member includes upstanding kinematic guide pins arrayed to maintain wafers in predetermined positions on each of said reticles during transport in said FOUP. 7. A method of combining a front opening unified pod (FOUP) system and a reticle system for the transport of semiconductor wafers between processing sites, said method comprising: modifying said FOUP so as to facilitate said FOUP transporting at least one reticle carrying a semiconductor wafer between said sites; providing an adapter for said at least one reticle configured to act directly on said at least one reticle; facilitating insertion and transport of said at least one reticle in said FOUP using said adapter; providing a plate member which is insertable into said FOUP, said plate member being part of said adapter; and arraying upstanding guide pins on said plate member to maintain wafers in predetermined positions on said at least one reticle during transport in said FOUP. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein said FOUP carries at least three said reticles in a superimposed stacked position during transport of said reticles between said sites. 9. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein an interface stocker system is provided for the transport of reticles in Reticle Storage Pods (RSPs) to said FOUP adapter, said stocker system including a reticle to FOUP adapter (RFA) storage for supplying reticles to said FOUP. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein overhead transport structure (OHT) is provided for positioning said FOUP; a further overhead transport structure (RSP OHT) is provided for positioning said Reticle Storage Pods (RSPs) proximate said FOUPs; structure for introducing said Reticle Storage Pods into said FOUPs and closing said FOUPs; and conveying structure for transporting the Reticle Storage Pod-containing FOUPs (RSP FOUPs) to a specified manufacturing or processing site. 11. A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein sensors provide information and control for the loading and unloading of said Reticle Storage Pods (RSPs) into and from said front opening unified pods (FOUPs). 12. A method of transporting and tracking Reticle Storage Pods (RSPs) in Reticle Storage Pod--FOUPs (RSP FOUPs), between sites, comprising: tracking RSPs via RF pill rewriting to a reticle FOUP adapter (RFA) or FOUP RF pill and resetting thereof after transport from an overhead transport vehicle (OHV) at a destination transfer site, whereby said RSP is removed from the RFA in said FOUP; transporting said RSP FOUPs between said manufacturing sites using a conveyor arrangement, and reconveying emptied FOUPs to an initial said site for reloading thereof with Reticle Storage Pods carrying semiconductor wafers; transporting a six-pack of said reticles in a FOUP using structure; facilitating transport of said reticle storage pods in said FOUPs in a combined operative transport mode wherein said FOUPs incorporate reticle adapter structure configured to act directly on said reticles; providing a plate member which is insertable into said FOUP, said plate member being part of said reticle FOUP adapter; and arraying upstanding guide pins on said plate member to maintain wafers in redetermined positions on said reticles during transport in said FOUP. 