The invention describes apparatuses for nano-scale integrated circuits applied to nanorobotics. Using EDA techniques, the system develops fully functional nano ICs, including ASICs and microprocessors. Three dimensional nano ICs are disclosed for increased efficiency in nanorobotic apparatuses. Nano-scale FPGAs are disclosed. The nano-scale semiconductors have applications to nano-scale and micro-scale robots.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for a nano-scale FPGA, comprising: a series of rows of nano-scale gates that are arrayed on a silicon substrate and that are configured into logic array grids; look up tables (LUTs) in memory components on the periphery of a nano-scale device: nano-scale connectors between gates; wherein a routing of logic arrays is done by using nano-scale connectors between the gates; wherein the gates are structured into grids of evolvable logic arrays; wherein the logic array grids access LUTs; wherein the logic array grids access memory on the periphery of the device; wherein the gates reconfigure to a different position when initiated; wherein the device contains between 1,000 and 10,000 gates; wherein the device reconfigures its gates in response to feedback from its environment; wherein the environment is electronic, biological or chemical; and wherein the environment provides feedback to the device. 2. A system of claim 1: wherein the nano-scale FPGAs are organized to send and receive messages; wherein two or more nano-scale FPGAs communicate with each other by linkage in a network; wherein the network of nano-scale FPGAs coordinate their behaviors; wherein the network of nano-scale FPGAs receive inputs from an indeterministic environment; wherein the network of nano-scale FPGAs analyze the inputs from the indeterministic environment; wherein the nano-scale FPGAs in the network restructure their configurations to optimally respond to the environment; and wherein the nano-scale FPGAs in the network continue to update their restructuring to the most recent environmental changes. 3. The system of claim 2: wherein when the network of nano-scale FPGAs interacts with the environment and receives external inputs, the nano-scale FPGAs restructure their gate configurations; wherein the nano-scale FPGAs perform computational functions in response to the external inputs; and wherein the nano-scale FPGAs adapt to environmental changes. 4. The system of claim 2: wherein the network of nano-scale FPGAs use software agents in a multi-agent system to pass messages. 5. The system of claim 2: wherein the network of nano-scale FPGAs are integrated in a network of nanorobots. 6. The system of claim 5: wherein the network of nanorobots contain sensors to sense inputs; wherein the network of nanorobots interact with an indeterminate environment by using computation from nano-scale FPGAs; and wherein the network of nanorobots transform their aggregate network configuration to adapt to environmental changes. 7. The system of claim 1; wherein the nano-scale FPGA is organized to analyze data and receive data inputs; and wherein when the environmental conditions change the device tracks the changes. 8. The system of claim 1: wherein the nano-scale FPGA in installed in a nanorobotic device that contains an actuator to perform at least one function; and wherein the nano-scale FPGA is organized to activate the actuator in the nanorobot to perform a function. 