An apparatus comprises a first plate having a first plurality of conductive segments on a surface of the first plate and a second plate having a second plurality of conductive segments on a surface of the second plate. The first and second plates have an axis of rotation. The first plurality of conductive segments and the second plurality of conductive segments each have a circular shape with centers through the axis of rotation. Each of the first plurality of conductive segments and the second plurality of conductive segments has a different diameter. Portions of the first plurality of conductive segments and the second plurality of conductive segments are offset from each other along the axis of rotation. Corresponding segments in the first plurality of conductive segments and the second plurality of conductive segments conduct signals during rotation of the first plate and the second plate relative to each other.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a first plate having a first plurality of conductive segments on a surface of the first plate, wherein the first plate has an axis of rotation, the first plurality of conductive segments has a circular shape with a first center through the axis of rotation, each of the first plurality of conductive segments has a different diameter, and portions of the first plurality of conductive segments are offset from each other in the first plurality of conductive segments along the axis of rotation; and a second plate having a second plurality of conductive segments on a surface of the second plate, wherein the second plate has the axis of rotation, the second plurality of conductive segments has the circular shape with a second center through the axis of rotation, each of the second plurality of conductive segments has the different diameter, portions of the second plurality of conductive segments are offset from each other in the second plurality of conductive segments along the axis of rotation, and the first plurality of conductive segments remain in communication with corresponding ones of the second plurality of conductive segments to conduct signals during rotation of the first plate and the second plate relative to each other. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first plate has an outer surface that is curved and the second plate has an outer surface that is curved. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an assembly of the first plate and the second plate forms a conformal slip ring system with a curved shape. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the each of the first plurality of conductive segments comprises a number of ridges and the each of the second plurality of conductive segments comprises a number of grooves. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the each of the first plurality of conductive segments comprises a number of grooves and the each of the second plurality of conductive segments comprises a number of ridges. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the each of the first plurality of conductive segments comprises a number of conductive lines and the each of the second plurality of conductive segments comprises a number of brushes. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first plate is associated with a first structure in a platform, the second plate is associated with a second structure in the platform, and the first structure and the second structure rotate relative to each other. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the first plate and the second plate are part of a joint configured to moveably connect the first structure to the second structure. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a first structure; and a second structure, wherein the first structure and the second structure rotate relative to each other, the first plate is associated with the first structure, and the second plate is associated with the second structure. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising: a joint connecting the first structure to the second structure, wherein an assembly of the first plate and the second plate is associated with the joint. 11. The apparatus of claim 3 further comprising: a first structure; and a second structure, wherein the first structure and the second structure rotate relative to each other, the first plate is associated with the first structure, the second plate is associated with the second structure, at least one of the first structure and the second structure has a curved surface, and the curved shape of the conformal slip ring system conforms to the curved surface. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a first number of connectors connected to the first plurality of conductive segments; and a second number of connectors connected to the second plurality of conductive segments. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signals are selected from at least one of electrical signals and optical signals. 14. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the first structure is an inertial measurement unit and the second structure is a moveable support for the inertial measurement unit. 15. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising: the platform. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the platform is selected from one of a mobile platform, a stationary platform, a land-based structure, an aquatic-based structure, a space-based structure, an aircraft, a surface ship, a tank, a personnel carrier, a train, a spacecraft, a space station, a satellite, a submarine, and an automobile. 17. A method for transmitting signals, the method comprising: sending the signals from a first structure in a platform into a conformal slip ring system comprising a first plate having a first plurality of conductive segments on a surface of the first plate, wherein the first plate has an axis of rotation, the first plurality of conductive segments has a circular shape with a first center through the axis of rotation, each of the first plurality of conductive segments has a different diameter, and portions of the first plurality of conductive segments are offset from each other in the first plurality of conductive segments along the axis of rotation; and a second plate having a second plurality of conductive segments on a surface of the second plate, wherein the second plate has the axis of rotation, the second plurality of conductive segments has the circular shape with a second center through the axis of rotation, each of the second plurality of conductive segments has the different diameter, portions of the second plurality of the conductive segments are offset from each other in the second plurality of conductive segments along the axis of rotation, and the first plurality of conductive segments remains in communication with corresponding ones of the second plurality of conductive segments during rotation of the first plate and the second plate relative to each other; and responsive to receiving the signals from the first structure at the conformal slip ring system, sending the signals to a second structure in communication with the conformal slip ring system. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising: sending additional signals from the second structure to the conformal slip ring system; and responsive to receiving the additional signals from the second structure at the conformal slip ring system, sending the additional signals to the first structure in communication with the conformal slip ring system. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the signals are selected from at least one of electrical signals and optical signals. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the first plate is associated with the first structure in the platform, the second plate is associated with the second structure in the platform, and the first structure and the second structure rotate relative to each other. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the first plate and the second plate are part of a joint configured to moveably connect the first structure to the second structure. 