A sensor for force is formed from an elastomeric cylinder having a region with apertures. The apertures have passageways formed between them, and an optical fiber is introduced into these passageways, where the optical fiber has a grating for measurement of tension positioned in the passageways between apertures. Optionally, a temperature measurement sensor is placed in or around the elastomer for temperature correction, and if required, a copper film may be deposited in the elastomer for reduced sensitivity to spot temperature variations in the elastomer near the sensors.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A sensor having: a shell formed from an elastomer, the shell having an attachment region, a sensing region which is substantially cylindrical, and a contact region; said sensing region having a plurality of apertures forming passageways for the routing of an optical fiber, the optical fiber having a plurality of Bragg gratings, at least two said Bragg gratings located in said passageways; said fiber coupled to an optical source and measuring a change in reflected or transmitted wavelength in response to a force applied to said contact region or said sensing region. 2. The sensor of claim 1 where at least one said Bragg grating is located between two said apertures. 3. The sensor of claim 2 where at least one said aperture is a hexagon. 4. The sensor of claim 2 where at least one said aperture is a triangle. 5. The sensor of claim 2 where at least one said aperture is a circle or an ellipse. 6. The sensor of claim 1 where at least one of said Bragg gratings measures a temperature. 7. The sensor of claim 1 where said shell includes a thermal heat sink. 8. The sensor of claim 1 where said Bragg gratings are located in more than one said passageway. 9. The sensor of claim 1 where said optical source is a broadband optical source spanning a wavelength range from a lowest Bragg grating wavelength to a highest Bragg grating wavelength. 10. The sensor of claim 8 where each said Bragg grating is operable in a unique range of wavelengths for reflection or transmission, and said change in reflected or transmitted wavelength for at least two said gratings is measured at the same interval in time. 11. A sensor having: an elastomeric cylindrical shell region having a plurality of apertures, said apertures forming passageways; a cap on one end of said cylindrical shell and an attachment on an opposite end; an optical fiber having a plurality of Bragg gratings disposed through said optical fiber, each said Bragg grating having an operating range of transmission wavelength or reflection wavelength which is unique from the operating range of wavelengths of any other said Bragg grating; at least two said Bragg gratings located in said passageways. 12. The sensor of claim 11 where said plurality of gratings is 5. 13. The sensor of claim 12 where four of said sensors are located substantially at 90 degree separation about a circle perpendicular to the axis of said cylindrical shell. 14. The sensor of claim 11 where at least one of said sensors is located in a volume enclosed by said cylindrical shell inner surface. 15. The sensor of claim 11 where said cylindrical shell region has an axis, and said Bragg gratings are located at a radial distance from said axis between an inner surface and an outer surface of said cylindrical shell. 16. The sensor of claim 11 where said cap is a spherical shell and said attachment includes a provision for mounting. 17. The sensor of claim 11 where said Bragg gratings operate in a reflection mode, and one end of said optical fiber is disposed outside said cylindrical shell region. 18. A sensor having: a flexible cylindrical shell having a plurality of apertures, said apertures forming passageways in said cylindrical shell; an optical fiber having a plurality of Bragg gratings disposed along a length of said fiber, each said Bragg grating having an operating range of wavelengths, each said operating range of wavelengths distinct from any other said operating range of wavelengths, said optical fiber routed through said passageways, said Bragg gratings located in a region between an inner surface of said cylindrical shell and an outer surface of said cylindrical shell. 19. The sensor of claim 18 where four said gratings are located substantially 90 degrees about the diameter of a circle perpendicular to said axis and one said Bragg grating is located at a radius less than said inner diameter of said cylindrical shell. 20. The sensor of claim 19 where said gratings at a radius greater than said inner diameter measure force and said grating at a radius less than said inner diamater measures a temperature. 