The present invention provides a light direction sensor for determining the direction of a light source. The system includes an image sensor; a spacer attached to the image sensor, and a pattern mask attached to said spacer. The pattern mask has a slit pattern that as light passes through the slit pattern it casts a diffraction pattern onto the image sensor. The method operates by receiving a beam of light onto a patterned mask, wherein the patterned mask as a plurality of a slit segments. Then, diffusing the beam of light onto an image sensor and determining the direction of the light source.
Claims Therefore, having thus described the invention, at least the following is claimed: 1. A light direction sensor, comprising: a image sensor; a spacer attached to said image sensor; and a pattern mask having a plurality of slits, and is attached to said spacer, wherein said pattern mask has a slit pattern that as light passes through the slit pattern the light casts a diffraction pattern onto the image sensor with said slit pattern further comprising an arrangement of slits which form a Cartesian grid that intentionally dims the light from some of the slits by alternatively skipping placement of slits in the Cartesian grid. 2. The light direction sensor of claim 1, further comprising an interface substrate. 3. The light direction sensor of claim 1, wherein said pattern mask is a perforated metal foil. 4. The light direction sensor of claim 1, wherein said slits has a width in a range between 3 and 20 .mu.m. 5. The light direction sensor of claim 4, wherein said slits have the width that is approximately 10 .mu.m. 6. The light direction sensor of claim 1, wherein said slits have spacing between the slits in the range of 100 to 800 .mu.m. 7. The light direction sensor of claim 1, wherein said spacing provides a gap between said image sensor and said pattern mask in the range of 1 to 10 mm. 8. The light direction sensor of claim 1, wherein said slits are arranged such that the patterns they produce on said image sensor do not interfere with each other. 9. A method for determining the direction of a light source, comprising: receiving a beam of light onto a patterned mask, wherein said patterned mask has a plurality of slit segments; diffusing the beam of light onto a image sensor; and determining the direction of the light source; wherein the plurality of slit segments on said patterned mask are in a Cartesian grid which intentionally dims the light from some of the slits by alternatively skipping placement of some of the slits in the Cartesian grid. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the determining step further comprising computing the direction of the light source based on geometry of similar triangles. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein said slit segments are arranged such that the patterns they produce on said image sensor do not influence each other. 