According to one embodiment, apparatuses and methods are provided for connecting a light-guiding conduit to a microfluidic channel. First and second substrates with first surfaces can be provided, wherein the first surfaces of the first and second substrates form a microfluidic channel and a connection channel when the first surfaces are positioned together, and wherein the connection channel extends from an edge of the first surface of the first or second substrate to the microfluidic channel. The apparatus and method can also include bonding the first surfaces of the first and second substrates to form the microfluidic channel and the connection channel. A light-guiding conduit can be inserted into the connection channel such that the light-guiding conduit connects to the microfluidic channel and filling an area between the light-guiding conduit and the connection channel for forming a liquid-tight seal between the light-guiding conduit and the connection channel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for connecting a light-guiding conduit to a microfluidic channel, the method comprising: (a) providing a first and second substrate comprising first surfaces, wherein the first surfaces of the first and second substrates form a microfluidic channel and a connection channel when the first surfaces are positioned together, and wherein the connection channel extends from an edge of the first surface of the first or second substrate to the microfluidic channel; (b) inserting a light-guiding conduit having an end into the connection channel such that the light-guiding conduit stops at a point where the end of the light-guiding conduit meets an edge of the connection channel; (c) inserting a light-curable adhesive into an area between the light-guiding conduit and the connection channel, wherein the light-curable adhesive flows toward the end of the connection channel with a leading edge; (d) delivering a light beam to light-curable adhesive through the end of the light-guiding conduit; and (e) curing the leading edge of the light-curable adhesive. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first substrate comprises a material selected from the group consisting of polymer, metal, silicon, silica, glass, quartz, sapphire, zinc oxide, alumina, Group III-V compounds, and combinations thereof. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first surface of the first substrate is at least substantially planar. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second substrate comprises a material selected from the group consisting of polymer, metal, silicon, silica, glass, quartz, sapphire, zinc oxide, alumina, Group III-V compounds, and combinations thereof. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first surface of the second substrate is at least substantially planar, and the first surface of the first substrate comprises the microfluidic channel and connection channel formed therein. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the microfluidic channel and the connection channel are in fluid communication. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of providing a first and second substrate comprises forming the connection channel in the first surface of one of the first and second substrates. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising forming the microfluidic channel in the first surface of one of the first and second substrates. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the length of the connection channel is approximately 3 to 10 millimeters. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the connection channel is at least substantially cylindrical in shape. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the connection channel is at least substantially semi-cylindrical in shape. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of bonding comprises thermal bonding. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of inserting the light-guiding conduit into the connection channel occurs prior to the step of bonding the first surfaces of the first and second substrates. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein insertion of the light-guiding conduit is limited by a decreased diameter of the connection channel. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the decreased diameter of the light-guiding conduit is a taper that transitions to the microfluidic channel. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein insertion of the light-guiding conduit is facilitated by an opening of the connection channel that is greater than the diameter of the connection channel. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the larger diameter opening is a taper that transitions to the microfluidic channel. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of inserting the light-guiding conduit comprises positioning an end of the light-guiding conduit in the connection channel, wherein the end of the connection channel is approximately 0 to 200 micrometers from the microfluidic channel. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the maximum diameter of the light-guiding conduit is smaller than the minimum diameter of the connection channel. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the maximum diameter of the light-guiding conduit is approximately the same as the minimum diameter of the connection channel. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the light-guiding conduit is a capillary tube. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the light-guiding conduit is a light-guiding capillary tube. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the light-guiding conduit is a fiber optic. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises applying a second light beam to cure adhesive not cured by the first light beam. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the light-guiding conduit is a light-guiding capillary, and the cured adhesive completes a fluid path from a lumen of the light-guiding capillary to the microfluidic channel. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of delivering comprises positioning the area between the light-guiding conduit and the connection channel at an adhesive dispenser for receiving the adhesive substance. 27. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a computer for controlling the positioning of the area between the light-guiding conduit and the connection channel at an adhesive dispenser. 