The invention is an autonomous dual tracked mobile (10) robot system comprising two or more tracked driving units (12x) configured to travel in tandem and a separate mechanical linkage (16), which joins each of the mobile units to the unit immediately preceding and following it, and enables efficient power transmission between the two driving units. Each of the mechanical linkages comprises one connecting bar (14) and three revolute joints (18y) located on each of the adjacent units and a connecting beam that connects the connecting bar on one of the units with the connecting bar on the adjacent unit.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An autonomous dual tracked mobile robot system comprising: two or more tracked driving units configured to travel in tandem and a separate mechanical linkage joining each of said tracked driving units to a unit immediately preceding and following each of said tracked driving units; wherein each of said mechanical linkages comprises: one connecting bar and three revolute joints on each of said units; and a connecting beam that connects said connecting bar on one of said units with said connecting bar on an adjacent unit; said mechanical linkage enabling efficient power force and moment transmission between said two driving units; and incremental encoders attached to each of said revolute joints, thereby allowing measurements of the relative configuration of components of said system. 2. An autonomous dual tracked mobile robot system, comprising: two or more tracked driving units configured to travel in tandem and a separate mechanical linkage joining each of said tracked driving units to a unit immediately preceding and following each of said tracked driving units; wherein each of said mechanical linkages comprises: one connecting bar and three revolute joints on each of said units; and a connecting beam that connects said connecting bar on one of said units with said connecting bar on an adjacent unit; said mechanical linkage enabling efficient power force and moment transmission between said two driving units, wherein one of the revolute joints on a first unit of said units connects a bottom of the connecting bar to a top of the first unit allowing unlimited revolution of said connecting bar around an axis perpendicular to an upper surface of said first unit and the other two of the revolute joints have limited motion bounded by a mechanical design of the revolute joints and adjustable by using two screws provided for this purpose on each of the revolute joints. 3. An autonomous dual tracked mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein each of said units comprises a rechargeable power supply, which supplies energy to electric motors that drive tracks on said units and that drive other onboard equipment. 4. An autonomous dual tracked mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein two-way communication with the autonomous robot system is by one or more of: wireless; an electric cable; and a fiber optic cable. 5. An autonomous dual tracked mobile robot system according to claim 4, comprising a winch system for transporting, releasing, and rewinding a cable mounted on one of the driving units. 6. An autonomous dual tracked mobile robot system, comprising: two or more tracked driving units configured to travel in tandem and a separate mechanical linkage joining each of said tracked driving units to a unit immediately preceding and following each of said tracked driving units; wherein each of said mechanical linkages comprises: one connecting bar and three revolute joints on each of said units; and a connecting beam that connects said connecting bar on one of said units with said connecting bar on an adjacent unit; said mechanical linkage enabling efficient power force and moment transmission between said two driving units, wherein the robot system is controlled by a synchronous motion controller that performs low level motor control of each track, said controller is connected to a higher level controller configured to synchronize two of said units according to data from the encoders. 7. An autonomous dual tracked mobile robot system according to claim 1, comprising a control system comprised of control software and a control screen viewed by an operator, said control system displaying one or more of the following: various operation modes; internal data; an aerial photo of a robot area with an overlaying graph of the system's trajectory and current position; video images from on-board cameras; additional sensory data configured to be presented using special commands; and a graphic window showing a three dimensional scheme of a relative position of two of said units. 8. An autonomous dual tracked mobile robot system according to claim 7, comprising two driving units and a dual joystick, which are configured to provide the operator with the following options to control said two driving units: single mode; twin mode; follow mode 1; and follow mode 2. 9. An autonomous dual tracked mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein each driving unit can be equipped with one or more of the following: on-board motion controller; fiber-optics system; camera; lights; and additional sensors of various types. 10. An autonomous dual tracked mobile robot system according to claim 1, wherein said robot system is completely autonomous traveling without one or more of an operator and a communication channel. 