An x-ray device is provided. The x-ray device includes a C-arm that may be rotatably mounted on a robotic arm. A radiation source and a radiation detector may be arranged on the C-arm. The interior of the C-arm, which is hollow at least in sections, is accessible from at least one access side to allow at least a part of the electronic components used to operate the radiation source and the radiation detector to be integrated in the interior of the arm.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An x-ray device comprising: a radiation source and a radiation detector; a robotic arm; a C-arm that is rotatably mounted on the robotic arm, the radiation source and radiation detector being arranged on the C-arm; and electronic components used to operate the radiation source and the radiation detector supported by the C-arm, wherein an interior of the C-arm, which is hollow at least in sections, is accessible from at least one access side of the C-arm to allow integration of at least a portion of the electronic components into the interior of the C-arm, and wherein the C-arm includes a first arm and a second arm, the first arm being separate from the second arm and being attached to and abutting the second arm to form a curved shape, the radiation source being arranged on one of the first arm and the second arm, and the radiation detector being arranged on the other of the first arm and the second arm. 2. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the C-arm is hollow and accessible from the at least one access side, the interior being accessible over an entire length of the C-arm. 3. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the interior of the C-arm is accessible from two access sides which are opposite to one another. 4. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the interior of the C-arm is subdivided into compartments by separating walls. 5. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the interior of the C-arm is accessible from two access sides which are opposite to one another. 6. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 5, wherein the two access sides are closed off by two detachable claddings. 7. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 5, wherein the interior of the C-arm is subdivided into compartments by separating walls. 8. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the C-arm has struts arranged to form a framework on the at least one access side. 9. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the interior of the C-arm is subdivided into compartments by separating walls. 10. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one access side is closed off by a detachable cladding. 11. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a lifting device arranged in the interior of the C-arm, wherein the first arm and the second arm are operable to be moved relative to one another by the lifting device arranged in the interior of the C-arm. 12. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the lifting device is a mechanical lifting device. 13. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the lifting device includes a spindle drive. 14. The x-ray device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the lifting device includes a hydraulic lifting device. 