A container includes side walls and a floor panel for packaging coiled wire, which may be welding wire. A wire dispensing apparatus is included that pays-off wire from the coil without tangling or twisting. The wire dispensing apparatus incorporates a plurality of flexible protrusions that extend from a base constructed to minimally contact the coil of wire. In particular, the wire dispensing apparatus incorporates an angled or curved base that rests against an inner circumference of the coiled wire.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wire payoff system for dispensing associated wire from a coil defining an inner circumference and an outer circumference, comprising: an annular base having at least a first wall portion that is angled with respect to a center axis of the annular base for contacting the associated wire substantially at an inner circumference of the coil, wherein the at least a first wall portion defines an upper rim that extends above the top of the coil for guiding the associated wire during payoff and a lower rim that extends below said wire; and an annular frame member positioned between said upper and lower rims adjacent a top surface of said coil, including one or more protrusions extending radially inward from the annular frame member for inhibiting multiple loops of associated wire from dispending at the same time; and, wherein the annular base is detached with respect to the annular frame member. 2. The wire payoff system as defined in claim 1, wherein the annular frame member defines a circumference sized to substantially match the outer circumference of the coil; and, wherein the one or more protrusions comprise a plurality of flexible bristles that extend substantially to the inner circumference of the coil. 3. A wire payoff system for coiled wire, said coiled wire having an inner diameter, which comprises: a wire dispensing guide having an upper and a lower rim, said rims connected by walls, a diameter of said upper rim being greater than a diameter of said lower rim; said lower rim diameter of said wire dispensing guide being smaller than said inner diameter of said coiled wire and said upper rim diameter being larger than said inner diameter of said coiled wire; a frame member positioned on top of at least a portion of said coiled wire; said frame member further comprising at least one or more elastically deformable protrusions extending inwardly from said frame member; and a length of said one or more protrusions being sufficient to be in contacting engagement with said walls of said wire dispending guide. 4. The wire payoff system of claim 3 wherein said frame member is essentially annular; and said at least one or more elastically deformable protrusions extending inwardly from said frame member extend approximately to said inner diameter of said coiled wire. 5. The wire payoff system of claim 4 wherein said at least one or more elastically deformable protrusions extending inwardly from said frame member are a plurality of protrusions. 6. The wire payoff system of claim 5 wherein said plurality of protrusions is a plurality of bristles. 7. The wire payoff system of claim 3 wherein said frame member further comprises at least one or more elastically deformable protrusions extending both inwardly from said frame member and outwardly from said frame member. 8. The wire payoff system of claim 7 wherein said at least one or more elastically deformable protrusions extending both inwardly and outwardly from said frame member is a plurality of bristles. 9. The wire payoff system of claim 3 which further comprises: a wire payout dome having a feed hole through which said coiled wire is fed. 10. The wire payoff system of claim 3 wherein said at least one or more elastically deformable protrusions are polymeric and of sufficient stiffness such that a single loop of wire passes over said wire guide when dispensing said wire. 11. The wire payoff system of claim 3 wherein said wire dispensing guide and said frame member are separate. 12. A wire payoff system for coiled wire, said coiled wire having an inner diameter, which comprises: a wire dispensing guide having an upper and a lower rim, said rims connected by walls, a diameter of said upper rim being greater than a diameter of said lower rim; said lower rim diameter of said wire dispensing guide being smaller than said inner diameter of said coiled wire and said upper rim diameter being larger than said inner diameter of said coiled wire; a restricting means positioned on top of at least a portion of said coiled wire; said frame member further comprising a plurality of elastically deformable bristles extending inwardly from said frame member and at least partially contacting said walls of said wire dispensing guide. 13. The wire payoff system of claim 12 wherein said frame member is essentially annular; and said plurality of elastically deformable bristles extending inwardly from said frame member extends approximately to said inner diameter of said coiled wire. 14. The wire payoff system of claim 12 wherein said restricting means further comprises a plurality of bristles extending both inwardly and outwardly from said restricting means. 15. The wire payoff system of claim 12 which further comprises: a wire payout dome having a feed hole through which said coiled wire is fed. 16. The wire payoff system of claim 12 wherein said plurality of bristles are polymeric and of sufficient stiffness such that a single loop of wire passes over said wire guide when dispensing said wire. 17. The wire payoff system of claim 12 wherein said wire dispensing guide and said restricting means are separate. 18. The wire payoff system of claim 17 wherein said restricting means is an annular disk having a width which is less than a width of said coiled wire. 19. The wire payoff system of claim 12 wherein said restricting means is positioned between said upper and lower rim of said wire dispensing guide. 20. The wire payoff system of claim 12 wherein an angle between a central axis of said coiled wire and said walls of said wire dispensing guide ranges between approximately 25.degree. to 85.degree. . 21. The wire payoff system of claim 20 wherein said angle is approximately 45.degree. . 