Apparatus for supporting a disk drive with a rotating disk about a disk axis and an arm which pivots over the disk about an arm axis. The disk axis and the arm axis are perpendicular to the plane of the disk. The apparatus includes a disk drive carrier having a disk drive receiving portion where disk drive can be received, and a housing in which the carrier can be received. A mounting arrangement is provided for supporting the carrier within the housing such that the center of rotation of the carrier is outside the disk drive receiving portion of the carrier. Additionally, a mounting arrangement is provided for supporting the carrier within the housing, comprising a forced pivot at or towards the opposite end of the disk drive carrier, and about which the carrier is fixed for pivotal movement in the housing.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Apparatus for supporting a disk drive that has a disk which rotates in use about a disk axis and an arm which pivots over the disk in use about an arm axis, the disk axis and the arm axis being generally perpendicular to the plane of the disk, the apparatus comprising: a disk drive carrier having a disk drive receiving portion in which a disk drive can be received; a housing in which the carrier can be received; and, a mounting arrangement for supporting the carrier within the housing such that the carrier rotates about a centre of rotation that is outside the disk drive receiving portion of the carrier and also substantially parallel to the arm axis. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the disk drive receiving portion of the carrier is towards one end of the carrier and the mounting arrangement is such that the centre of rotation of the carrier is adjacent the opposite end of the carrier. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the mounting arrangement comprises a forced pivot adjacent said opposite end of the disk drive carrier and about which the carrier is fixed for pivotal movement in the housing. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3, comprising at least one isolator for isolating the carrier from the housing, the at least one isolator being connected to the carrier at a position that is outside the disk drive receiving portion of the carrier. 5. Apparatus according to claim 4, comprising plural isolators for isolating the carrier from the housing, each of the isolators being respectively connected to the carrier at a position that is outside the disk drive receiving portion of the carrier. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the mounting arrangement comprises plural isolators for mounting the carrier in the housing and isolating the carrier from the housing, the isolators being arranged such that the centre of rotation of the combination of the carrier and the disk drive when received in the housing is outside the disk drive receiving portion of the carrier. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein each of the isolators is respectively connected to the carrier at a position that is outside the disk drive receiving portion of the carrier. 8. Apparatus according to claim 7, wherein there are exactly three of said isolators. 9. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein there are exactly three of said isolators. 10. Disk drive test apparatus for receiving plural disk drives for testing of the disk drives, each disk drive having a disk which rotates in use about a disk axis and an arm which pivots over the disk in use about an arm axis, the disk axis and the arm axis being generally perpendicular to the plane of the disk, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of disk drive carriers arranged generally in a vertical column, each disk drive carrier having a disk drive receiving portion in which a disk drive can be received; a housing having plural bays, each bay being capable of receiving a respective one of the disk drive carriers therein; and, a mounting arrangement for each disk drive carrier for supporting the respective carriers within the housing; each mounting arrangement being arranged such that each respective carrier rotates about a centre of rotation that is outside the disk drive receiving portion of the carrier, the centres of rotation of the carriers being arranged in a vertical column substantially parallel to the arm axes. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the disk drive receiving portion of each of said carriers is towards one end of the respective carrier and the mounting arrangement for the respective carriers is such that the centre of rotation of the carrier is adjacent an end opposite to said one end of the carrier. 12. Apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the mounting arrangement for each disk drive carrier comprises a forced pivot adjacent said opposite end of the disk drive carrier and about which the carrier is fixed for pivotal movement in the housing. 13. Apparatus for supporting a disk drive that has a disk which rotates in use about a disk axis and an arm which pivots over the disk in use about an arm axis, the disk axis and the arm axis being generally perpendicular to the plane of the disk, the apparatus comprising: a disk drive carrier having a disk drive receiving portion adjacent one end in which a disk drive can be received; a housing in which the carrier can be received; and, a mounting arrangement for supporting the carrier within the housing, the mounting arrangement comprising a forced pivot adjacent an end opposite to said one end of the disk drive carrier outside the disk drive receiving portion and about which the carrier is fixed for pivotal movement in the housing substantially parallel to the arm axis. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13, comprising at least one isolator for isolating the carrier from the housing, the at least one isolator being connected to the carrier at a position that is outside the disk drive receiving portion of the carrier. 15. Apparatus according to claim 14, comprising plural isolators for isolating the carrier from the housing, each of the isolators being respectively connected to the carrier at a position that is outside the disk drive receiving portion of the carrier. 