Recoil mitigating devices and methods for use with projectile firing systems such as a disrupter mounted to a robotic arm. A pair of parallel spring provides dampening of axial recoil movement of the disrupter relative to the robotic arm. Forward ends of the springs are attachable to the barrel of the disrupter while rearward portions of the springs are attachable to the robotic arm by a robot mount block. The robot mount block at least partially encloses the barrel of the disrupter in connecting the parallel springs and permits axial movement of the disrupter along or through the mount during firing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A disrupter recoil mitigation device for use with a robot support platform, the device comprising: first and second gas spring assemblies mountable in substantially parallel alignment with a barrel of a disrupter, the first and second gas spring assemblies spaced to accommodate the barrel of the disrupter between the first and second gas spring assemblies, wherein the first and second gas spring assemblies each comprise a gas cylinder and a piston rod, wherein the piston rod is slideably received within the gas cylinder, the piston rod defining a distal end extending outwardly from the gas cylinder; a disrupter mount connected to one of the gas cylinder and the distal end of the piston rod; and a robot mount block connected to the other of the gas cylinder and the distal end of the piston rod, the robot mount block configured for mounting to a robotic support platform, wherein the robot mount block is configured to at least partially enclose the barrel of a disrupter when the disrupter is mounted between the spring elements and is further configured to permit axial disrupter movement during discharge of the disrupter. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the disrupter mount is connectable to a forward section of a barrel of a disrupter. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein the robot mount block is connectable to a robotic arm. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the disrupter mount comprises a barrel clamp configured to apply clamping forces to a disrupter barrel. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein the barrel clamp comprises a barrel clamp base and a barrel clamp cap, the barrel clamp base and barrel clamp cap together defining complimentary clamping surfaces. 6. The device of claim 4 wherein the robot mount block comprises opposing sides each defining a clamping surface for clamping the gas cylinder of one of the first and second gas spring assemblies, and further comprising first and second robot mount block clamps attachable to the robot mount block to secure the first and second gas spring assemblies to the robot mount block. 7. The device of claim 4 further comprising a supplemental support for supporting the first and second gas spring assemblies and spaced apart from the robot mount block to reduce pitching during discharge of the disrupter. 8. In combination, an ordnance disrupter and a disrupter recoil mitigation device, the disrupter recoil mitigation device comprising: first and second gas spring assemblies mountable in substantially parallel alignment with a barrel of a disrupter, the first and second gas spring assemblies spaced to accommodate the barrel of the disrupter between the first and second gas spring assemblies, wherein the first and second gas spring assemblies each comprise a gas cylinder and a piston rod, wherein the piston rod is slideably received within the gas cylinder, the piston rod defining a distal end extending outwardly from the gas cylinder; a disrupter mount connected to one of the gas cylinder and the distal end of the piston rod; and a robot mount block connected to the other of the gas cylinder and the distal end of the piston rod, the robot mount block configured for mounting to a robotic support platform, wherein the robot mount block is configured to at least partially enclose the barrel of a disrupter when the disrupter is mounted between the spring elements and is further configured to permit axial disrupter movement during discharge of the disrupter. 