A disk drive test slot includes a housing that defines a test compartment for receiving and supporting a disk drive transporter carrying a disk drive for testing. The housing also defines an open end that provides access to the test compartment for insertion and removal of disk drive transporter carrying a disk drive for testing. The disk drive test slot also includes a mounting plate connected to the housing. One or more isolators are disposed between the housing and the mounting plate. The one or more isolators are operable to inhibit transmission of vibrational energy between the housing and the mounting plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A disk drive test slot comprising: a housing defining: a test compartment for receiving a disk drive for testing, and an open end providing access to the test compartment for insertion and removal of the disk drive for testing; a mounting plate connected to the housing; and a plurality of floating contacts disposed between the housing and the mounting plate and operable to inhibit transmission of vibrational energy between the housing and the mounting plate, wherein the plurality of floating contacts are displaceable in a negative Y direction relative to U-shape or forked shaped flange members extending from the mounting plate. 2. The disk drive test slot of claim 1, wherein the plurality of floating contacts comprise grommets, wherein the housing comprises a plurality of contact pins each of which engage a corresponding one of the grommets, and wherein the plurality of contact pins are disposed at a first end of the housing opposite the open end. 3. The disk drive test slot of claim 1, wherein the plurality of floating contacts comprise grommets, and wherein the housing is connected to the grommets in such a manner as to preload the grommets. 4. A disk drive testing system comprising: a plurality of test slots, each test slot comprising: a housing defining: a test compartment for receiving a disk drive for testing, and an open end providing access to the test compartment for insertion and removal of the disk drive for testing; a mounting plate connected to the housing; and a plurality of floating contacts disposed between the housing and the mounting plate and operable to inhibit transmission of vibrational energy between the housing and the mounting plate, wherein the plurality of floating contacts are displaceable in a negative Y direction relative to U-shape or forked shaped flange members extending from the mounting plate; and a chassis defining a plurality of test slot receptacles each configured to receive and support one of the plurality of test slots, wherein the plurality of test slots are each independently removable from the chassis. 5. The disk drive testing system of claim 4, wherein the plurality of floating contacts comprise grommets, wherein the grommets inhibit transmission of vibrational energy between the test slot housings and the chassis, and wherein the housings are connected to the grommets in such a manner as to preload the grommets. 