A self-propelled apparatus for cleaning the submerged bottom surfaces of a pool or tank in a predetermined regular pattern includes a reversible water jet drive means for propelling the apparatus in opposite directions corresponding to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus. The direction of the discharge of the propelling water jet is changed by mechanical sensors, electrical sensors, or by interrupting the water pump. The source of the pressurized jet stream can include a pump integral to the apparatus or an external portable pump and/or a pump associated with the pool's filtering and/or circulation system.
Claims We claim: 1. A cleaning apparatus for cleaning the submerged surface of a pool or tank, comprising: a discharge outlet for discharging a pressurized stream of water which forms a water jet for propelling said apparatus over the submerged surface; a directional conduit having opposing ends and in fluid communication with the discharge outlet for receiving the pressurized stream of water discharged from the discharge outlet, the directional conduit including at least one conduit discharge opening located at the opposing ends through which the water jet is alternatively directionally discharged through one end to propel the apparatus in a first direction and through the opposing end to propel the apparatus in an opposite direction; and a water jet valve positioned intermediately between the discharge outlet and the at least one conduit discharge opening at the opposing ends of the directional conduit, the water jet valve being operable between first and second discharge positions to selectively direct the water jet in generally opposite directions through the directional conduit, wherein the discharge outlet, the water jet valve, the directional conduit, and the at least one discharge opening are arranged serially such that the pressurized water stream discharged from the discharge outlet undergoes only one right-angle change of direction after flowing through the discharge outlet and before being discharged from the apparatus to move the apparatus over the submerged surface of the pool or tank in opposing directions as determined by the operable discharge position of the water jet valve. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a housing adapter which includes the discharge outlet, said housing adapter coupled to the water jet valve and configured for connection to a pump that is located remotely from the apparatus. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 in which the housing adapter connects to the remote pump by a flexible hose. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the housing adapter includes a swiveling elbow joint having a first end coupled to the apparatus and a second end coupled to the flexible hose. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a bi-axial flow diverter attached to each end of the directional conduit. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein each bi-axial flow diverter includes a downwardly directed channel and an upwardly directed channel. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the pressurized stream of water discharged through the downwardly and upwardly directed channels form a pair of water jets that move the apparatus over the surface. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 in which the direction of discharge of the water is changed by directional control means that is responsive to the proximity of the apparatus to a side wall of the pool being cleaned. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 in which the directional control means is joined by a mechanical linkage to at least one external sensor extending in the direction of movement of the apparatus. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 in which at least one of the sensors is slidably mounted for movement in a plane that is parallel to the base of the apparatus and extends beyond the periphery of the apparatus in the direction of movement to contact a side wall of the pool as the apparatus approaches the side wall. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 in which the mechanical linkage comprises means for translating a sliding movement of at least one of the sensors into a rotational movement, and thereby reverse the direction of the water discharged from the directional conduit. 12. The apparatus of claim 8 in which the directional control means is selected from the group consisting of (a) an infrared light source, an infrared light sensor and a circuit associated with the sensor to receive and transmit a signal from the sensor to the directional control means, whereby infrared light reflected from an adjacent pool side wall detected by the sensor causes the apparatus to reverse direction; (b) a magnetic sensor and a circuit associated with the sensor to receive and transmit a signal from the sensor to the directional control means, whereby a variation in the movement of the magnetic member detected by the sensor causes the apparatus to change direction; and (c) a mercury switch and an associated circuit to receive and transmit a signal from the mercury switch to the directional control means, whereby a change in the orientation of the apparatus that activates the mercury switch produces a signal that causes the apparatus to change direction. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the opposing ends of the directional conduit are upwardly inclined from the horizontal to create a downward vertical force vector and a longitudinal force vector in the water jet discharged from the opposing openings. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the water jet valve comprises at least one deflector member that is moveable to define the first and the second water jet discharge positions, wherein movement of the deflector member from the first position to the second position effects the movement of water from one to the other conduit discharge openings. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 where the deflector member comprises a flap valve assembly mounted within the interior of the directional conduit between the longitudinal conduit discharge openings and in fluid communication with the water discharge outlet, said flap valve assembly comprising control means for alternating the flow of water from the discharge outlet to one or the other of the at least two conduit discharge openings. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 in which the flap valve assembly control means comprises a pivotally-mounted flap member and a plurality of bias-mounted flap positioning members mounted within the interior of the directional conduit, said positioning members being responsive to the force of water flowing through said valve assembly. 17. The apparatus of claim 1 where the water jet valve is operable between the first and second discharge positions in response to an interruption of the pressurized water stream from the discharge outlet. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one conduit discharge opening is angled downwardly toward the surface being cleaned. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising at least one supplemental weight member positioned along the bottom of the apparatus to maintain an overall negative buoyancy. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an expansion sleeve coupled to each end of the directional conduit, said expansion sleeve having an inner dimension greater than an outer dimension of the directional conduit to define a gap therebetween. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the opposing end of each of the expansion sleeves forms the conduit discharge opening from which the discharged water jet is expelled to propel the apparatus. 22. The apparatus of claim 20, further comprising an intake port formed at a bottom portion of the apparatus and in communication with a filtering medium positioned within the apparatus, and wherein the gap formed between each directional conduit and expansion sleeve creates a flow path through which water is drawn by the venturi effect, which is created as a result of a sudden increase in volume of the flow path and a corresponding pressure drop, the pressure drop creating a negative pressure inside the apparatus so that jet streams that converge beneath the apparatus are able to lift debris and carry it through the intake port and into contact with the filtering medium. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the water jet valve is positioned intermediate of the opposing ends of the directional conduit. 