The present invention is a novel device for climbing inside corners, outside corners, and a variety of surfaces. The technology presented herein relies on high friction materials, suction devices, adhesive materials, pneumatic devices, etc. Specifically, embodiments of the present invention are designed to clamp onto inside or outside corners such that the devices weight, and an optional load, can be supported. Further embodiments allow the device to climb up, down, and across corners. Moreover, embodiments that can scale flat, rough, or jagged surfaces are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A corner climber comprising: a first member comprising a first cavity extending along a longitudinal length of said first member; a second member interconnected with said first member such that said first member cooperates with said second member to provide a first clamping force; a connecting rod for coupling said first member to said second member along a common pivot axis, said common pivot axis being orthogonal to said first and said second members; a control device for activating said first member and said second member to provide said first clamping force; a first friction pad coupled to said first member, wherein said first friction pad engages a first surface such that said first friction pad is substantially flush with said first surface; and a second friction pad coupled to said second member, wherein said second friction pad engages a second surface such that said second friction pad is substantially flush with said second surface; and a cleat spring coupled to a cleat latch for maintaining said first clamping force when said control device is not activated; wherein said first and said second surfaces are at an angle at least about 270 degrees with respect to each other; wherein said first and said second friction pads comprises a high friction material having a coefficient of friction equal or greater than one; and wherein said first clamping force and said high friction material causes said first friction pad and said second friction pad to securely engage said first and said second surfaces. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads comprises at least one layer. 3. An apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said layer is removable. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads comprises at least one selected from a group consisting a flat surface, a concave surface, and a convex surface. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said friction pads comprises a material selected from a group consisting of polyester composite PVC compound, a thermoplastic elastomer, rubber and cyanoacrilate. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said control device comprises at least one pulley system, said pulley system comprising: at least one roller; and at least one cable cooperating with said at least one roller, said cable attached to at least one of said members; wherein tension applied to said cable is transferred to said members to provide said first clamping force. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus further comprises a means for repositioning said members upon release of said first clamping force such that said members move relative to said first and said second surfaces. 8. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said means for repositioning stores potential energy upon application of gravity to said apparatus, wherein the release of said potential energy causes said moving of said members. 9. An apparatus according to claim 7, wherein said means for repositioning comprises a swinging weight. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said first and said second surfaces form an outside corner. 