A method of calibrating positions within a materials handling system, wherein the materials handling system includes multiple stations for carrying out tasks and a carrier that is movable between the multiple stations, includes the steps of: providing calibration points at a plurality of the multiple stations; moving the carrier to at least some of the calibration points; contacting the calibration points; recording the locations of the calibration points; and determining locations of key components of the stations based on the locations of the calibration points. In some embodiments, the method includes contacting the calibration points with a calibration tool, which may include: a cylindrical body; a groove in the cylindrical body sized and configured to receive jaws from the carrier; and a cylindrical upper flange positioned on an upper end of the cylindrical body. In this configuration, the tool can be gripped by the carrier and employed to perform a variety of calibration functions.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A method of calibrating positions within a materials handling system, the materials handling system including multiple stations for carrying out tasks, the materials handling system further including a carrier that is movable between the multiple stations, the method comprising the steps of: providing calibration points at a plurality of the multiple stations; moving the carrier to at least some of the calibration points; contacting the calibration points with a tool grasped by the carrier; recording the locations of the calibration points contacted in the contacting step; and determining locations of key components of the stations based on the locations of the calibration points contacted in the contacting step. 2. The method defined in claim 1, wherein the steps of contacting the calibration points and recording the locations of the calibration points comprise: contacting the calibration point with the tool; recording the location of the carrier as the tool contacts the calibration point; and wherein determining the location of the calibration point comprises calculating based on the location of the carrier as the tool contacts the calibration point. 3. The method defined in claim 1, wherein at least one of the calibration points takes the form of a groove included in one of the multiple stations, and wherein the method further comprises: adjusting the position of the carrier after the contacting and recording steps; and repeating the contacting, recording and adjusting steps until adjusting of the carrier causes contact to be made with an edge of the groove at the same location for two consecutive contacting steps. 4. The method defined in claim 1, wherein the tool includes a cylindrical body and a cylindrical flange that has a greater diameter than a diameter of the body. 5. The method defined in claim 4, wherein at least one of the calibration points is located within a horizontal groove included in one of the multiple stations. 6. The method defined in claim 5, wherein the contacting step comprises contacting the horizontal groove with the cylindrical flange. 7. The method defined in claim 1, wherein at least one of the calibration points is located on an upstanding post. 8. The method defined in claim 1, further comprising: adjusting the position of the carrier after the contacting and recording steps; and repeating the contacting, recording and adjusting steps until adjusting of the carrier causes no contact to be made with the calibration point. 9. A method of calibrating positions within a materials handling system, the materials handling system including multiple stations for carrying out tasks, the materials handling system further including a carrier that is movable between the multiple stations, the method comprising the steps of: providing calibration points at a plurality of the multiple stations; moving the carrier to at least some of the calibration points; contacting the calibration points with the carrier or with a tool grasped by the carrier; recording the locations of the calibration points contacted in the contacting step; adjusting the position of the carrier after the contacting and recording steps; repeating the contacting, recording and adjusting steps until adjusting of the carrier causes no contact to be made with the calibration point; and determining locations of key components of the stations based on the locations of the calibration points contacted in the contacting step. 10. The method defined in claim 9, wherein the contacting step is carried out with a tool grasped by the carrier. 11. The method defined in claim 10, wherein the tool includes a cylindrical body and a cylindrical flange that has a greater diameter than a diameter of the body. 12. The method defined in claim 9, wherein at least one of the calibration points is located on an upstanding post. 13. The method defined in claim 9, wherein the contacting step comprises contacting the calibration points with a portion of a pair of jaws mounted on the carrier. 14. A method of calibrating positions within a materials handling system, the materials handling system including multiple stations for carrying out tasks, the materials handling system further including a carrier that is movable between the multiple stations, the method comprising the steps of: providing calibration points at a plurality of the multiple stations; moving the carrier to at least some of the calibration points; contacting the calibration points with the carrier or a tool grasped by the carrier; recording the locations of the calibration points contacted in the contacting step; and determining locations of key components of the stations based on the locations of the calibration points contacted in the contacting step; wherein at least one of the calibration points is located within a groove included in one of the multiple stations, and wherein the method further comprises: adjusting the position of the carrier after the contacting and recording steps; and repeating the contacting, recording and adjusting steps until adjusting of the carrier causes contact to be made with an edge of the groove at the same location for two consecutive contacting steps. 15. The method defined in claim 14, wherein the contacting step is carried out with a tool grasped by the carrier. 16. The method defined in claim 15, wherein the tool includes a cylindrical body and a cylindrical flange that has a greater diameter than a diameter of the body. 17. The method defined in claim 16, wherein the contacting step comprises contacting a horizontal groove with the cylindrical flange. 