The present invention provides methods and systems for discretized, combinatorial processing of regions of a substrate such as for the discovery, implementation, optimization, and qualification of new materials, processes, and process sequence integration schemes used in integrated circuit fabrication. A substrate having an array of differentially processed regions thereon is processed by delivering materials to or modifying regions of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of combinatorial processing, comprising: receiving a substrate comprising regions wherein a structure is defined within each of the regions, the structure being a partially completed photonic device, optoelectronic device, or a solar cell; and combinatorially processing the regions on the substrate in a site-isolated manner through a gas-phase chemical process selected from the group of processes consisting of physical vapor deposition, chemical vapor deposition, and atomic layer deposition to complete the structures in each of the regions to an extent sufficient for optical or electrical screening of the structures. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises a material selected from the group consisting of: silicon, an inorganic glass, a silica, a silica-based material, and a metal. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing the regions on the substrate using a wet processing technique before combinatorially processing the regions on the substrate in the site-isolated manner through a dry vacuum deposition process. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the processing using the wet processing technique is combinatorial processing of the regions. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the wet processing technique comprises etching. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the wet processing technique further comprises surface modification of the substrate before etching. 7. The method of claim 3, wherein the wet deposition technique comprises an electroless process. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing the regions to prepare an exposed surface of the structures for subsequent processing of the exposed surface. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the processing to prepare an exposed surface is one of etch, removal, cleaning or surface modification processes. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the processing does not deposit a film. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising screening the site-isolated regions using an optical screening technique on the substrate. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the optical screening technique comprises the technique selected from the group consisting of: reflectometry, diffraction, X-ray reflectivity and X-ray diffraction. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the optical screening occurs after combinatorially processing the regions on the substrate. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising screening the site-isolated regions using atomic force microscopy. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein applying the etchant is performed combinatorially. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising, before receiving the substrate: depositing a thin film through a physical mask by a physical vapor deposition process to create the regions on the substrate; and applying an etchant to the substrate to create the partially completed device. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein depositing the thin film is performed combinatorially. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising, before receiving the substrate: depositing a thin film on the substrate by physical vapor deposition; etching the substrate in an isolated manner to form the regions on the substrate, wherein the etching is varied combinatorially. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein depositing the thin film on the substrate comprises depositing a blanket thin film on the substrate. 