Disclosed herein are navigational systems for automated robotic floor cleaners. RFID passive tags are positioned at specified areas of a floor to be treated so as to increase or decrease dwell time of the cleaning device adjacent the tags. An RFID interrogator on the robot learns from each tag its nature, and based thereon instructs the device to change the dwell time over specified areas. This permits areas of a carpet or other surface requiring extra or less treatment to be cleaned in an optimal manner.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for navigating an automatic cleaning device within a location, the system comprising: a radio frequency identification tag positioned within or adjacent a selected surface area comprising a percentage of total surface area within the location; and an automatic cleaning device including a controller for driving the automatic cleaning device within the location for a predetermined time period, the controller being in communication with a radio frequency identification unit which receives signals from the radio frequency identification tag indicating presence of the selected surface area, wherein the controller executes a stored program to drive the automatic cleaning device within the selected surface area for a modified time period greater than or less than a reference time period calculated by multiplying the predetermined time period by the percentage, and wherein the radio frequency identification tag is temporarily positioned within or adjacent the selected surface area for marking temporary conditions of the selected surface area, and wherein the temporary conditions of the selected surface area include (i) that the selected surface area has extra soil which causes the automatic cleaning device to clean for a longer time period near the radio frequency identification tag and (ii) that the selected surface area is too clean to need further treatment which causes the controller to be informed that dwell time near the radio frequency identification tag should be reduced or eliminated and (iii) that the selected surface area is an area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time, and wherein when the selected surface area is an area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time, the radio frequency identification tag is positioned in the center of the area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time, and the controller executes a stored program to avoid driving the automatic cleaning device within a predetermined distance of the radio frequency identification tag. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the modified time period is greater than the reference time period. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein: the selected surface area is dirtier than a remainder of the total surface area other than the selected surface area before driving the automatic cleaning device within the location. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein: the selected surface area is less dirty than a remainder of the total surface area other than the selected surface area before driving the automatic cleaning device within the location, and the modified time period is less than the reference time period. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein: the selected surface area comprises a floor covering. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein: the selected surface area is adjacent a wall. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein: the selected surface area is dirtier than a remainder of the total surface area other than the selected surface area before driving the automatic cleaning device within the location, and the modified time period is greater than the reference time period. 8. A method for navigating an automatic cleaning device within a location, the automatic cleaning device including a controller for driving the automatic cleaning device within the location for a predetermined time period, the method comprising: positioning a radio frequency identification tag within or adjacent a selected surface area comprising a percentage of total surface area within the location; providing a radio frequency identification unit which receives signals from the radio frequency identification tag indicating presence of the selected surface area, the radio frequency identification unit being in communication with the controller; and providing in the controller a stored program that drives the automatic cleaning device within the selected surface area for a modified time period greater than or less than a reference time period calculated by multiplying the predetermined time period by the percentage, wherein the radio frequency identification tag is temporarily positioned within or adjacent the selected surface area for marking temporary conditions of the selected surface area, and wherein the temporary conditions of the selected surface area include (i) that the selected surface area has extra soil which causes the automatic cleaning device to clean for a longer time period near the radio frequency identification tag and (ii) that the selected surface area is too clean to need further treatment which causes the controller to be informed that dwell time near the radio frequency identification tag should be reduced or eliminated and (iii) that the selected surface area is an area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time, and wherein when the selected surface area is an area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time, the radio frequency identification tag is positioned in the center of the area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time, and the stored program avoids driving the automatic cleaning device within a predetermined distance of the radio frequency identification tag. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein: the modified time period is greater than the reference time period. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein: the selected surface area is dirtier than a remainder of the total surface area other than the selected surface area before driving the automatic cleaning device within the location. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein: the selected surface area is less dirty than a remainder of the total surface area other than the selected surface area before driving the automatic cleaning device within the location, and the modified time period is less than the reference time period. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein: the selected surface area comprises a floor covering. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein: the selected surface area is adjacent a wall. 14. A system for navigating an automatic cleaning device within a location, the system comprising: a radio frequency identification tag: positioned within or adjacent a selected surface area comprising a percentage of total surface area within the location; and configured to transmit an instruction indicating a temporary condition of the selected surface area to a radio frequency identification unit; and an automatic cleaning device including a controller for driving the automatic cleaning device within the location for a predetermined time period, the controller being in communication with the radio frequency identification unit which receives the instruction from the radio frequency identification tag, wherein the controller executes a stored program to drive the automatic cleaning device within the selected surface area for a modified time period greater than or less than a reference time period calculated by multiplying the predetermined time period by the percentage, and wherein the radio frequency identification tag is temporarily positioned within or adjacent the selected surface area, and wherein the temporary conditions of the selected surface area include (i) that the selected surface area has extra soil which causes the automatic cleaning device to clean for a longer time period near the radio frequency identification tag and (ii) that the selected surface area is too clean to need further treatment which causes the controller to be informed that dwell time near the radio frequency identification tag should be reduced or eliminated and (iii) that the selected surface area is an area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time, and wherein when the instruction indicates that the temporary condition of the selected surface area is an area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time, a plurality of the radio frequency identification tags are positioned near a perimeter of the area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time, and the controller executes a stored program that utilizes the instruction from each of the radio frequency identification tags to avoid driving the automatic cleaning device within the perimeter of the area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein: the selected surface area is less dirty than a remainder of the total surface area other than the selected surface area before driving the automatic cleaning device within the location, and the modified time period is less than the reference time period. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein: the selected surface area comprises a floor covering. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein: the selected surface area is adjacent a wall. 18. A method for navigating an automatic cleaning device within a location, the automatic cleaning device including a controller for driving the automatic cleaning device within the location for a predetermined time period, the method comprising: positioning a radio frequency identification tag: within or adjacent a selected surface area comprising a percentage of total surface area within the location; and configured to transmit an instruction indicating a condition of the selected surface area; providing a radio frequency identification unit which receives the instruction from the radio frequency identification tag, the radio frequency identification unit being in communication with the controller; and providing in the controller a stored program that drives the automatic cleaning device within the selected surface area for a modified time period greater than or less than a reference time period calculated by multiplying the predetermined time period by the percentage, wherein the radio frequency identification tag is temporarily positioned within or adjacent the selected surface area for marking temporary conditions of the selected surface area, and wherein the temporary conditions of the selected surface area include (i) that the selected surface area has extra soil which causes the automatic cleaning device to clean for a longer time period near the radio frequency identification tag and (ii) that the selected surface area is too clean to need further treatment which causes the controller to be informed that dwell time near the radio frequency identification tag should be reduced or eliminated and (iii) that the selected surface area is an area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time, and wherein when the selected surface area is an area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time: each of a plurality of the radio frequency identification tags is positioned proximate to the selected surface area and is configured to transmit the instruction to spend no time; and the stored program avoids driving the automatic cleaning device within the perimeter of the area in which the automatic cleaning device should spend no time. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein: the selected surface area is dirtier than a remainder of the total surface area other than the selected surface area before driving the automatic cleaning device within the location, and the modified time period is greater than the reference time period. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein: the selected surface area is less dirty than a remainder of the total surface area other than the selected surface area before driving the automatic cleaning device within the location, and the modified time period is less than the reference time period. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein: the selected surface area comprises a floor covering. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein: the selected surface area is adjacent a wall. 23. The system of claim 18, wherein the plurality of the radio frequency identification tags are positioned within a perimeter of the selected surface area. 