A game system comprises a game board having a playing area and game pieces for playing a game on the game board. Each game piece comprises a mobile robot for sensing and decoding a position-coding pattern printed on the game board. Each game piece is in communication with a computer system. The computer system is configured to send instructions for moving each game piece relative to the playing area in response to position information corresponding to the game pieces.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A game system comprising: a game board having a playing area, said game board having a position-coding pattern disposed thereon, the position-coding pattern identifying an identity of the game board; one or more game pieces for playing a game on said game board, each game piece comprising a mobile robot for sensing and decoding the position-coding pattern; and a computer system in communication with said one or more game pieces, wherein said computer system is configured to send instructions for moving each game piece relative to the playing area in response to position information corresponding to said one or more game pieces, wherein said computer system is configured to determine instructions for moving each game piece using a game-playing algorithm, said game-playing algorithm being determined using the identity of the game board. 2. The game system of claim 1, wherein each game piece comprises an on-board controller configured for wireless communication with the computer system; a drive system connected to the controller, said drive system being configured for moving and steering the game piece relative to the surface; and an image sensor for optically sensing the position-coding pattern, said image sensor system being connected to the controller such that said controller can communicate position data the computer system. 3. The game system of claim 1, wherein said position-coding pattern encodes, at each of at least a given density of points on the surface, two-dimensional coordinates of the point. 4. The game system of claim 3, wherein the controller is configured to report arrival at a specified coordinate position to the computer system. 5. The game system of claim 1, wherein each game piece incorporates a display. 6. The game system of claim 5, wherein said display identifies a playing color for said game piece. 7. The game system of claim 1 comprising a plurality of game pieces, wherein said computer system is contained in one of said game pieces. 8. The game system of claim 1, wherein said game is chess or checkers. 