Methods and systems are provided for conducting a reaction at a selected temperature or range of temperatures over time. An array device is provided. The array device contains separate reaction chambers and is formed as an elastomeric block from multiple layers. At least one layer has at least one recess that recess has at least one deflectable membrane integral to the layer with the recess. The array device has a thermal transfer device proximal to at least one of the reaction chambers. The thermal transfer device is formed to contact a thermal control source. Reagents for carrying out a desired reaction are introduced into the array device. The array device is contacted with a thermal control device such that the thermal control device is in thermal communication with the thermal control source so that a temperature of the reaction in at least one of the reaction chamber is changed as a result of a change in temperature of the thermal control source.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A carrier for holding a microfluidic device comprising: a non-elastomeric substrate comprising a plurality of wells, wherein each of the plurality of wells has a well opening with a center point and the plurality of wells is spatially arranged such that the center point to center point spacing is about 4.5 mm; a plurality of channels within the substrate wherein each of the plurality of wells is in fluid communication with at least one of the plurality of channels; and a receiving portion on the non-elastomeric substrate for receiving the microfluidic device and placing the microfluidic device in fluid communication with the plurality of wells, wherein the microfluidic device comprises an elastomeric material. 2. The carrier of claim 1 comprising one or more well rows. 3. The carrier of claim 2 comprising a plurality of well rows and wherein the plurality of rows is divided into more than one well bank. 4. The carrier of claim 2 wherein the well rows are divided into a first well region and a second well region wherein the first well region and the second well region are adapted to receive up to 48 reagents into the wells. 5. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the receiving portion further comprises a thermal control device. 6. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the wells further comprise an upper face and wherein the wells are adapted to form a pressure cavity when a platen is urged against the upper face. 7. The carrier of claim 6 further comprising a pressure accumulator. 8. The carrier of claim 1 wherein the plurality of wells is spatially arranged such that the center-to-center spacing of each well is that of the center-point spacing of a microtiter plate having a format selected from the group consisting of a 96 well microtiter plate, a 384 well microtiter plate, a 864 well microtiter plate, a 1536 well microtiter plate, and a 6144 well microtiter plate. 9. The carrier of claim 6 further comprising a microfluidic device, the microfluidic device comprising a chamber wherein the chamber is coupled to a well through a channel in the substrate. 10. The carrier of claim 7 further comprising a microfluidic device, the microfluidic device comprising a chamber and a valve wherein the chamber is coupled to a well through a channel in the substrate and wherein the valve is coupled to an accumulator through a channel in the substrate. 11. The carrier of claim 5 further comprising a pressure accumulator and a microfluidic device, the microfluidic device comprising a chamber and a valve wherein the chamber is coupled to a well through a channel in the substrate and wherein the valve is coupled to an accumulator through a channel in the substrate. 12. The carrier of claim 1, wherein the non-elastomeric substrate comprises acrylic or polypropylene. 13. The carrier of claim 1, wherein the elastomeric material of the microfluidic device comprises polydimethylsiloxane. 14. A carrier for holding a microfluidic device, the carrier comprising: a carrier substrate comprising at least a plurality of wells, wherein each of the plurality of wells has an exposed top opening to receive a fluid from outside the carrier, and wherein each of the plurality of wells has a center point and the plurality of wells are spatially arranged such that the center point to center point spacing is about 4.5 mm; a plurality of channels within the carrier substrate wherein each of the plurality of wells is in fluid communication with at least one of the plurality of channels; and a receiving portion on the carrier substrate for receiving the microfluidic device and placing the microfluidic device in fluid communication with the plurality of wells. 15. A carrier for holding a microfluidic device, the carrier comprising: a carrier substrate comprising at least a plurality of wells, wherein each of the plurality of wells has a center point and the plurality of wells are spatially arranged such that the center point to center point spacing is about 4.5 mm; a plurality of channels within the carrier substrate, wherein each of the channels has a first terminus that is fluidly coupled to one of the plurality of wells and a second terminus operable to be fluidly coupled to the microfluidic device; and a receiving portion on the carrier substrate for receiving the microfluidic device and coupling the microfluidic device to the second termini of the plurality of channels to place the microfluidic device in fluid communication with the plurality of wells. 16. The carrier of claim 15, wherein the first termini of the channels is coupled to a bottom side of the wells that is opposite an exposed top side of each of the wells. 