An apparatus for positioning a substrate support within a processing chamber is provided. In one embodiment, an apparatus for positioning a substrate support includes a yoke comprising a curved surface with a first slot formed therethrough, a base comprising a first surface adapted to support the substrate support and a curved second surface, wherein the curved second surface mates with the curved surface of the yoke and a first slot is formed through the curved second surface of the base, and a first threaded member disposed through the first slot in the yoke and the first slot in the base.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for processing a substrate, comprising: a processing chamber; a substrate support for supporting a substrate within the processing chamber; and an assembly for positioning the substrate support, comprising: a clamp block; a yoke comprising at least one flange with a curved surface, the flange having a slot formed therethrough, wherein the yoke is coupled with the clamp block, the yoke positional along and rotational about a first axis relative to the clamp block; a base comprising a first surface adapted to support the substrate support and a curved second surface mating with the curved surface of the flange, wherein a first slot is formed through the curved second surface of the base, the base movable about a second axis orthogonal to the first axis; a first threaded member disposed through the slot in the flange and urging the yoke and base against each other along the axis of the first threaded member; a bearing assembly having a first carriage block and a second carriage block, the bearing assembly coupled with the clamp block; and an actuator coupled with at least one of the carriage blocks and adapted to control the linear position of the carriage blocks along the bearing assembly. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the clamp block has a clamping aperture formed therein for receiving a post extending from the yoke. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the clamp block has a slot formed at least partially through the clamp block and communicating with the clamping aperture, and the clamp block further comprises a plunger disposed in the slot and movable in a direction radially aligned with a center of the clamping aperture. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the plunger includes a contact surface that, when urged against the post, does not exert a rotational moment force upon the post. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the clamp block further comprises: a web disposed over the slot opposite the clamping aperture; and a member disposed through the web and radially aligned with the center of the clamping aperture, the member adapted to urge the plunger against the post. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first threaded member is radially aligned relative to the curved surface of the flange. 