A manipulator is configured with three or more substantially concentric, elongate members configured such that relative rotation and translation of the elongate members adjusts both the spatial position and orientation of the distal end of the manipulator and the spatial positioning of the manipulator along its length. In one arrangement, the elongate members are pre-curved such that the distal end portions of the elongate members have generally arcuate shapes in a resting state. When the three elongate members are combined in a substantially concentric manner, the overall shape of the manipulator is a composite of the individual elongate member shapes. Varying the relative translation and rotational orientation of the component elongate members achieves a family of resulting manipulator shapes as well as a desired spatial position and orientation of the distal end portion of the manipulator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A manipulator, comprising: at least three elongate members disposed in a moveable relationship and in a substantially concentric relationship relative to each other; and at least one elongate member of the at least three elongate members configurable, within an elastic range, between a rest configuration in which at least a portion of the at least one elongate member of the at least three elongate members has a first curvature relative to a reference axis and a non-rest configuration in which at least the portion of the at least one elongate member of the at least three elongate members has a second curvature different from the first curvature relative to the reference axis; wherein at least one pair of the elongate members have a stiffness relationship that is a non-dominant stiffness relationship characterized by one elongate member of the pair having a bending stiffness that is neither substantially greater than nor substantially less than a bending stiffness of the other elongate member of the pair, the first set of elongate members of the at least three elongate members being configured to be positioned between the non-rest configuration and the rest configuration in response to relative displacement between a first elongate member of the first set of elongate members and a second elongate member of the first set of elongate members, and the second set of elongate members of the at least three elongate members configured to be positioned between the non-rest configuration and the rest configuration in response to relative displacement between a first elongate member of the second set of elongate members and a second elongate member of the second set of elongate members, each of the sets of elongate members comprises the respective first and second elongate members having a stiffness relationship selected from the group consisting of a dominant stiffness relationship and a balanced stiffness relationship, the dominant stiffness relationship being characterized by the first elongate member having a bending stiffness that is substantially greater than a bending stiffness of the second elongate member, the balanced stiffness relationship being characterized by the first elongate member having a bending stiffness that is substantially equal to a bending stiffness of the second elongate member, the first set of elongate members having the balanced stiffness relationship, and a distal end portion of the first elongate member of the first set and a distal end portion the second elongate member of the first set being configured to be positioned between the non-rest configuration and the rest configuration in response to relative rotation between the first elongate member and the second elongate member of the first set about the reference axis, and the second set of elongate members having the dominant stiffness relationship, and a distal end portion of the first elongate member of the second set being configured to be positioned between the non-rest configuration and the rest configuration in response to relative translation between the first and second elongate members of the second set along the reference axis, and the at least three elongate members are configured such that relative displacement of the at least three elongate members adjusts a spatial position of a distal end of the manipulator. 2. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein a surgical tool or device is attached to a distal end portion of an elongate member or is deployed through an elongate member lumen extending between proximal and distal end portions of the elongate member. 3. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein: one of the elongate members defines a lumen having a substantially circular cross-sectional shape, the lumen extending between a proximal end portion and a distal end portion of the elongate member. 4. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein: one of the elongate members defines a substantially asymmetric cross-sectional shape along a length of the elongate member. 5. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein one of the elongate members has a substantially variable cross sectional shape and/or area extending along the length of the elongate member. 6. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein: for one of the sets of elongate members, a respective first elongate member of the set is substantially stiffer than a respective outer second elongate member of the set. 7. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein the first curvature is a variable curvature varying along the length of the portion of the at least one elongate member of the at least three elongate members. 8. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein the material composition of one or more of the elongate members varies along its length. 9. The manipulator of claim 1, configured for use in therapy. 10. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein at least one elongate member of the at least three elongate members is configured as a needle operable to introduce the manipulator into a tissue location. 11. The manipulator of claim 1, further comprising a sheath, the at least three elongate members disposed within the sheath. 