The present invention provides compositions and methods to facilitate the identification of compounds that are capable of interacting with a biological macromolecule of interest. A composition is provided that comprises an array of chemical compounds attached to a solid support, wherein the density of the array of compounds is at least 1000 spots per cm.sup.2. The inventive arrays are generated by: providing a solid support functionalized with a selected chemical moiety capable of interacting with a chemical compound to form an attachment and delivering compounds to the solid support having a density of at least 1000 spots per cm.sup.2. The present invention also provides methods for utilizing these arrays to identify small molecule partners for biological macromolecules of interest.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An array comprising: a plurality of more than one type of organic small molecule, having a molecular weight of less than 1500 g/mol, attached to a solid support through a benzylidene linker, wherein said solid support is a substantially flat surface derivatized with diazobenzylidene moieties, whereby said organic small molecules become attached to said support through reaction with said diazobenzylidene moieties, wherein attachment of said organic small molecules to said support is robust enough so that the small molecules are not inadvertently cleaved during subsequent assaying steps, wherein the density of said array of organic small molecules comprises at least 1000 spots per cm.sup.2, and wherein said organic small molecules attached to said benzylidine linker attached to said solid support is as shown below: ##STR00023## wherein X is a heteroatom selected from the group consisting of O, S, and N, of the attached organic small molecule R. 2. The array of claim 1, wherein said array of organic small molecules comprises an array of non-oligomeric organic small molecules. 3. The array of claim 1, wherein said array of organic small molecules comprises an array of non-peptidic and non-oligomeric organic small molecules. 4. The array of claim 1, wherein the solid support is glass. 5. The array of claim 1, wherein the solid support is derivatized glass. 6. The array of claim 1, wherein the solid support is silylated glass. 7. The array of claim 1, wherein the solid support is .gamma.-aminopropylsilylated glass. 8. The array of claim 1, wherein the solid support is a polymer. 9. The array of claim 1, wherein the solid support is metal. 10. The array of claim 1, wherein the solid support is a metal-coated surface. 11. The array of claim 1, wherein the solid support is a gold-coated surface. 12. A solid support comprising a substantially flat glass surface, wherein said glass surface is derivatized with diazobenzylidene moieties, and wherein the solid support has the structure: ##STR00024## 13. A method for forming the array of claim 1, the method comprising: providing a solid support, wherein said solid support is a substantially flat surface derivatized with diazobenzylidene moieties capable of interacting with more than one type of organic small molecule, having a molecular weight of less than 1500 g/mol, to form a covalent linkage; providing one or more solutions of more than one type of said organic small molecule to be attached to said solid support; and delivering said one or more solutions of said more than one type of organic small molecule to said solid support, whereby each of said organic small molecules is attached to said solid support through a covalent interaction, wherein attachment of said organic small molecules to said support is robust enough so that the small molecules are not inadvertently cleaved during subsequent assaying steps, and whereby said array of organic small molecules has a density of at least 1000 spots per cm.sup.2, and wherein the array comprises organic small molecules attached to said benzylidene linker attached to said solid support as shown below: ##STR00025## wherein X is a heteroatom selected from the group consisting of O, S, and N, of the attached organic small molecule R. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said solid support comprises a glass slide. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein providing a solution of one or more types of organic small molecules to be attached to the solid support comprises providing one or more solutions generated from a library of organic small molecules, wherein each member of said library is initially attached to a bead, placed in an individual well, then cleaved from the bead to provide the solution. 16. A method of identifying organic small molecule partners for biological macromolecules of interest comprising: providing the array of claim 8, wherein said array comprises an array of organic small molecules, having a molecular weight of less than 1500 g/mol, attached to a substantially flat solid support through a benzylidene linker, wherein attachment of said organic small molecules to said support is robust enough so that the small molecules are not inadvertently cleaved during subsequent assaying steps, and wherein said array of organic small molecules has a density of at least 1000 spots per cm.sup.2; contacting said array with one of more types of biological macromolecules of interest; and determining the binding of specific organic small molecule-biological macromolecule partners; wherein the array comprises organic small molecules attached to said benzylidine linker attached to said solid support as shown below: ##STR00026## wherein X is a heteroatom selected from the group consisting of O, S, and N, of the attached organic small molecule R. 17. A method for identifying organic small molecule partners for a gene product comprising: providing the array of claim 8, wherein said array comprises an array of organic small molecules, having a molecular weight of less than 1500 g/mol, attached to a substantially flat solid support through a benzylidene linker, wherein attachment of said organic small molecules to said support is robust enough so that the small molecules are not inadvertently cleaved during subsequent assaying steps, and wherein said array of organic small molecules has a density of at least 1000 spots per cm.sup.2; contacting said array with a library of recombinant proteins; and determining the binding of specific recombinant proteins with said organic small molecule partners; wherein the array comprises organic small molecules attached to said benzylidine linker attached to said solid support as shown below: ##STR00027## wherein X is a heteroatom selected from the group consisting of O, S, and N, of the attached organic small molecule R. 