An apparatus may include drive chassis, at least one horizontal drive drawer extending from a first side of the drive chassis to a second side of the drive chassis and/or at Least one computer drive disposed on the horizontal drive drawer. Additionally, a computer server system and a method for providing the apparatus are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a drive chassis, said drive chassis including a gear rack; at least one horizontal drive drawer extending from a first side of the drive chassis to a second side of the drive chassis, each of said at least one horizontal drive drawer including a height less than 1U rack unit; a motor assembly, said motor assembly including a motor and motor gear, said motor and motor gear being disposed on said at least one horizontal drive drawer; and an array of computer drives disposed on the at least one horizontal drive drawer supported by the drive chassis, the array of computer drives disposed horizontally on the at least one horizontal drive drawer, wherein said motor gear is adapted to rotate against said gear rack on said drive chassis upon rotary motion of the motor to cause movement of the at least one horizontal drive drawer. 2. The apparatus in claim 1, wherein the drive chassis comprises: at least one controller meeting a Storage Bridge Bay Working Group (SBB) standard. 3. The apparatus in claim 1, wherein the at least one horizontal drive drawer extending from a first side of the drive chassis to a second side of the drive chassis comprises: a horizontal drawer including a blade server. 4. The apparatus in claim 1, wherein the array of computer drives disposed on the at least one horizontal drive drawer comprises: at least twelve drives disposed on the at least one horizontal drive drawer. 5. The apparatus in claim 1, wherein the at least one computer drive disposed on the at least one horizontal drive drawer comprises: a hot-swappable computer drive. 6. A computer server system, comprising: a computer server chassis defining an enclosure; at least one controller meeting a Storage Bridge Bay Working Group (SBB) standard; a midplane disposed in the computer server chassis; at least one drive chassis, said drive chassis including a gear rack; at least one horizontal drive drawer extending from a first side of the drive chassis to a second side of the drive chassis, each of said at least one horizontal drive drawer including a height less than 1U rack unit; a motor assembly, said motor assembly including a motor and motor gear, said motor and motor gear being disposed on said at least one horizontal drive drawer; and an array of computer drives disposed on the horizontal drive drawer supported by the drive chassis, the midplane coupled to the at least one controller and said array of drives, wherein said motor gear is adapted to rotate against said gear rack on said drive chassis upon rotary motion of the motor to cause movement of the at least one horizontal drive drawer, each drive of the array of computer drives disposed on the at least one horizontal drive drawer includes a hot-swappable computer drive. 7. The computer server system in claim 6, wherein the computer server chassis defining an enclosure comprises: a one meter computer server chassis. 8. The computer server system in claim 6, wherein the computer server chassis defining an enclosure comprises: a computer server chassis configured for enclosing a blade server system. 9. The computer server system in claim 6, wherein the computer server chassis defining an enclosure comprises: at least five horizontal drive drawers. 10. The computer server system in claim 6, wherein the at least one horizontal drive drawer extending from a first side of the drive chassis to a second side of the drive chassis comprises: a horizontal drawer including a blade server. 11. The computer server system in claim 6, wherein the array of computer drives disposed on the at least one horizontal drive drawer comprises: at least twelve drives disposed on the at least one horizontal drive drawer. 12. The computer system server in claim 6, wherein said array of computer drives includes at least twelve 31/2 inch drives. 13. The computer system server in claim 6, wherein said array of computer drives includes at least twenty-four 21/2 inch drives. 