The present invention provides a system and method of performing a total joint replacement surgery on a patient. The method includes making an incision through skin of the patient proximal to the joint. At least a portion of an imaging device is inserted under the skin, proximal to the joint. The joint is inspected, using the imaging device. A cutting guide is positioned through the incision and on an end portion of a first bone in the joint. The end portion of the first bone is cut by moving a cutting tool along the cutting guide. An implant is moved through the incision and connected with the cut end portion of the first bone. The imaging device is used to view the join prior to and/or after connection of the implant to the first bone.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing surgery on a patient's joint including first and second bones, the method comprising: making an incision through skin of the patient to access the joint; inserting at least a portion of an imaging device under the skin; inspecting the joint with the imaging device; and performing a total joint replacement surgery through the incision, wherein the total joint replacement surgery includes replacing articulating surfaces of the first and second bones with joint replacement components. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein inspecting the joint with the imaging device is performed while the joint is in a substantially stationary position. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein inspecting the joint with the imaging device is performed while moving the first bone relative to the second bone. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least a portion of an imaging device is inserted through the incision. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein inserting at least a portion of an imaging device under the skin includes: making a secondary incision through the skin near the joint; and inserting the at least a portion of an imaging device through the secondary incision. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the secondary incision is smaller than the incision. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the imaging device is an endoscope, arthroscope, or fiber optic device. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the total joint replacement surgery through the incision comprises: positioning a cutting guide through the incision and with respect to an end portion of the first bone; and cutting an end surface of the first bone by moving the cutting tool along the cutting guide. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein inspecting the joint with the imaging device is performed prior to cutting the end surface. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein inspecting the joint with the imaging device is performed after cutting the end surface. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein inspecting the joint with the imaging device is performed both prior to and after cutting the end surface. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein a computer navigation system is used in the positioning of the cutting guide. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the joint replacement components include at least one implant and performing the total joint replacement surgery through the incision further comprises: moving the at least one implant through the incision; and connecting the at least one implant with the cut end surface. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein inspecting the joint with the imaging device is performed prior to connecting the at least one implant with the cut end surface. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein inspecting the joint with the imaging device is performed after connecting the at least one implant with the cut end surface. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the incision is smaller than the at least one implant. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising inserting a cannula into the incision. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the cannula is expandable. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the joint is a knee joint. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the joint is in the spine of the patient. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein customized instrumentation based upon imaging of the leg of the patient is used in said step of cutting. 22. The method of claim 12, wherein the computer navigation system uses an emitter or a receiver, at least one of which is positioned on a bone of the knee, to provide a cutting position. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein instrumentation is used in said step of cutting and at least some of the instrumentation is disposable. 24. A method of performing surgery on a patient's knee joint including first and second bones, the method comprising: making an incision through skin of the patient to access the joint; inserting at least a portion of an imaging device under the skin; inspecting the joint with the imaging device; and performing a total joint replacement surgery through the incision; wherein performing the total joint replacement surgery through the incision comprises: displacing a patella from a normal position to an offset position with an inner side of the patella facing inward; cutting an end surface of the first bone; moving at least one implant through the incision while the patella is offset from the normal position without everting the patella so that the inner side of the patella faces the femur; and connecting the at least one implant with the cut end portion. 25. A method of performing a total joint replacement surgery on a knee portion in a leg of a patient including a femur and tibia, the method comprising: making an incision through skin of the patient to access the knee portion; inserting at least a portion of an imaging device under the skin; inspecting the knee portion with the imaging device; and positioning a femur cutting guide through the incision and on a femur end portion; and cutting a femur end surface by moving a cutting tool along the cutting guide. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising displacing a patella from a normal position to an offset position without everting the patella so that the inner surface of the patella faces the femur. 27. The method of claim 25, wherein inserting the at least a portion of an imaging device under the skin comprises: making a secondary incision near the knee portion of the leg; and inserting at least a portion of the imaging device through the secondary incision. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the secondary incision is smaller than the incision. 29. The method of claim 25, further comprising: moving a femoral implant through the incision; and connecting the femoral implant with the cut femur end surface. 30. The method of claim 29, further comprising: positioning a tibia cutting guide through the incision and on a tibia end portion; cutting a tibia end surface by moving a cutting tool along the tibia cutting guide; moving a tibial implant through the incision; and connecting the tibial implant with the cut tibia end surface. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein inspecting the knee portion of the leg with the imaging device is performed prior to connecting the femoral and tibial implants. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein inspecting the knee portion of the leg with the imaging device is performed after connecting the femoral and tibial implants. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein inspecting the joint with the imaging device includes viewing the interaction between the femoral and tibial implants during relative movement. 34. The method of claim 32, wherein inspecting the joint with the imaging device includes viewing connective tissue connecting the femur and the tibia. 35. The method of claim 25, wherein the at least a portion of an imaging device is inserted through the incision. 36. The method of claim 25, further including the step of using a computer to provide positions for cutting a femur end surface. 37. The method of claim 25, further including the step of using a cutting guide to compensate for a bone deformity of the patient. 38. The method of claim 25, further including the step of connecting a total joint replacement component to a leg of the patient. 39. The method of claim 25, further including the step of calculating a compensation of a bone deformity using a computer, wherein said calculation is used in said step of positioning. 40. The method of claim 25, further including the step of calculating a compensation of a bone deformity using a computer, wherein said calculation is used in said step of cutting. 41. The method of claim 25, wherein customized instrumentation based upon imaging of the leg of the patient is used in said step of cutting. 42. The method of claim 25, wherein the imaging device is an endoscope, arthroscope, or fiber optic device. 43. The method of claim 25, wherein the imaging device is an MRI. 44. The method of claim 25, wherein the imaging device includes a reflector used for visualization. 45. A method of performing surgery on a patient's joint including first and second bones, the method comprising: making an incision through skin of the patient to access the joint; inserting at least a portion of a cannula through the incision; and performing at least part of a joint replacement surgery through the cannula, wherein performing at least part of a joint replacement surgery through the cannula includes: positioning a cutting guide through the cannula and with respect to an end portion of the first bone; and cutting an end surface of the first bone by moving the cutting tool along the cutting guide. 46. The method of claim 45, further comprising the step of inserting at least a portion of an imaging device under the skin. 47. The method of claim 45, wherein the incision is a stab or puncture wound. 48. The method of claim 45, wherein the cannula is an expandable cannula. 49. The method of claim 45, wherein the joint is a knee joint. 50. The method of claim 45, wherein performing at least part of a joint replacement surgery through the cannula comprises: moving at least one implant through the cannula; and connecting the at least one implant with the cut end surface. 