Apparatus for molding and filling a device having a body defining an opening in communication with an interior chamber for receiving a substance therein, and a closure including a penetrable and resealable portion for sealing the opening and substance received in the device. A mold includes within the aseptic chamber plural mold cavities shaped to form the closure and body, and substantially sterile surfaces extending about and contiguous to the peripheries of the mold cavities. An assembly device including end-of-arm tooling having an engaging portion engageable with each of the body and closure is movable relative to the mold to engage and de-mold the substantially sterile closures and bodies from the mold cavities. Flexible barriers are coupled to the mold and the tool to substantially prevent the passage of contaminants from the molding machine and tool therethrough.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising the following steps: (a) providing at least one barrier enclosure defining at least one aseptic chamber; at least one mold including within at least one aseptic chamber at least one first mold cavity shaped to form at least one of a device body and a device closure; and at least one tool including a tool engaging portion located within at least one aseptic chamber and movable relative to the at least one mold; (b) molding in the at least one first mold cavity at least one of a device body and device closure; (c) opening the mold to de-mold the at least one of a molded device body and device closure; (d) maintaining at least one first surface of the mold extending about the first mold cavity substantially sterile at least during opening of the mold to prevent any contaminants from contacting the at least one of a molded device body and device closure during de-molding thereof; (e) directing a flow of sterile air into the at least one aseptic chamber, including into a space formed between opposing surfaces of the mold during opening thereof, and across the at least one first surface of the mold and any exposed surface of the at least one of a device body and device closure; (f) moving the tool engaging portion of the tool into the space formed between opposing surfaces of the mold, engaging with the tool engaging portion the at least one of a molded device body and device closure and de-molding same with the tool engaging portion, and directing a flow of sterile air over at least the tool engaging portion and at least one of a molded device body and device closure during de-molding thereof; (g) providing at least one first flexible barrier coupled to the mold between the at least one first sterile surface and a molding machine and substantially preventing the passage of contaminants from the molding machine therethrough; (h) providing at least one second flexible barrier coupled to the tool between the at least one engaging portion and a base portion of the tool and substantially preventing the passage of contaminants from the base portion of the tool therethrough; and (i) assembling at least one of a sterile device body and device closure to the other into a sealed, empty sterile device. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising penetrating a penetrable and resealable portion of the closure and introducing a substance therethrough and into the interior chamber of the device, and thermally resealing the penetrable and resealable portion of the closure. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising maintaining the at least one first surface of the mold extending about the first mold cavity substantially sterile by heating said at least one surface to a temperature sufficient to destroy any germs thereon. 4. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of assembling with the tool within at least one aseptic chamber the substantially sterile device closure and device body into a sealed, empty sterile device, and transferring with the tool the device to at least one of a transfer station and a filling and resealing station. 5. An apparatus comprising: at least one barrier enclosure defining at least one aseptic chamber; at least one mold including within at least one aseptic chamber at least one first mold cavity shaped to form at least one of a device closure and device body, and at least one first substantially sterile surface extending about the at least one first mold cavity; at least one tool located within at least one aseptic chamber and including an engaging portion engageable with at least one of a device body and device closure located within the at least one first mold cavity, wherein at least one of the first mold cavity and tool is movable relative to the other for engaging and de-molding at least one of a substantially sterile device closure and device body from the at least one first mold cavity; at least one source of sterile air in fluid communication with the at least one aseptic chamber and directing a flow of sterile air into the aseptic chamber and over the first sterile surface for maintaining the sterility of said surface and the device closure and device body during de-molding thereof; at least one first flexible barrier coupled to the mold between the at least one first sterile surface and a molding machine and substantially preventing the passage of contaminants from the molding machine therethrough; and at least one second flexible barrier coupled to the tool between the at least one engaging portion and a base portion of the tool and substantially preventing the passage of contaminants from the base portion of the tool therethrough. 6. An Apparatus as defined in claim 5, further comprising a filling and resealing station configured to receive a sealed, empty sterile device, and including (i) at least one injection member that is movable between a first position for penetrating a penetrable and resealable portion of the closure and introducing a substance from the injection member therethrough and into the interior chamber of the device body, and a second position spaced away from the penetrable and resealable portion of the closure; and (ii) a thermal source for thermally sealing an injection member penetrated region of the penetrable and resealable portion of the closure upon withdrawal of the injection member therefrom. 7. Apparatus as defined in claim 6, further comprising at least one assembly device including the at least one tool, wherein the at least one assembly device and tool are configured to (i) de-mold a substantially sterile device closure from at least one first mold cavity, (ii) de-mold a substantially sterile device body from at least one first mold cavity, (iii) assemble within at least one aseptic chamber the substantially sterile device closure and device body into a sterile, sealed empty device, and (iv) transfer the sterile, sealed empty device to at least one of a transfer station and the filling and resealing station for aseptically filling with a substance and thermally resealing the filled device. 8. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the at least one mold includes within at least one aseptic chamber at least one first mold cavity shaped to form the device body, at least one second mold cavity shaped to form the device closure, at least one first substantially sterile surface extending about the first mold cavity, at least one second substantially sterile surface extending about the at least one second mold cavity, and two first flexible barriers, wherein one of the first flexible barriers is coupled to the mold between the at least one first sterile surface and a molding machine and substantially prevents the passage of contaminants from the molding machine therethrough, and the other first flexible barrier is coupled to the mold between the at least one second sterile surface and a molding machine and substantially prevents the passage of contaminants from the molding machine therethrough. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein the mold includes a first mold portion and a second mold portion, the first mold portion defines the first sterile surface, the second mold portion defines the second sterile surface, and at least one of the first mold portion is movable relative to the second mold portion between a closed position for molding at least one of the device body and device closure, and an open position with the first and second sterile surfaces spaced relative to each other and defining a portion of the aseptic chamber therebetween. 10. An apparatus as defined in claim 8, wherein the first sterile surface extends about a periphery of the first mold cavity, and the second sterile surface extends about a periphery of the second mold cavity. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 10, further comprising at least one third substantially sterile surface extending about a periphery of the engaging portion of the tool. 12. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the at least one first substantially sterile surface is defined by a heated surface. 13. An apparatus as defined in claim 12, wherein the heated surface is defined by a ceramic surface. 14. An apparatus as defined in claim 12, further comprising at least one heating source thermally coupled to the heated surface. 15. An apparatus as defined in claim 14, further comprising at least one temperature sensor operatively coupled to the at least one heating source and adapted to sense the temperature of the heated surface, and wherein the at least one heating source is responsive to the at least temperature sensor to control the temperature of the heated surface. 16. An apparatus as defined in claim 5, wherein the tool includes at least one vacuum port in fluid communication with the engaging portion for drawing a vacuum through the port and, in turn, releasably securing at least one of a substantially sterile device closure and device body thereto. 17. An apparatus comprising: first means for forming at least one enclosed aseptic chamber; second means located within at least one aseptic chamber and defining at least one mold cavity for forming at least one of a device closure and device body; third means for forming at least one first substantially sterile surface region extending about the at least one first mold cavity; fourth means located within at least one aseptic chamber and movable relative to the third means for engaging and de-molding at least one of a substantially sterile device closure and device body from the at least one first mold cavity; fifth means coupled in fluid communication with the at least one aseptic chamber for directing a flow of sterile air into the aseptic chamber and over the third means and fourth means for maintaining the sterility of the device closure and device body during de-molding thereof; sixth means for preventing the passage of contaminants from a molding machine therethrough and into the at least one aseptic chamber; and seventh means for preventing the passage of contaminants from a base portion of the fourth means therethrough and into the aseptic chamber. 18. An apparatus as defined in claim 17, further comprising eighth means for receiving a sealed, empty sterile device body and device closure assembly, penetrating a penetrable and resealable portion of the closure and introducing a substance therethrough and into the interior chamber of the device body, and thermally resealing the penetrable and resealable portion of the closure. 19. An apparatus as defined in claim 18, wherein the eighth means is defined by a filling and resealing station. 20. An apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein: the first means is defined by at least one barrier enclosure; the second means is defined by at least one mold; the third means is defined by at least one sterile surface extending about a periphery of the least one mold cavity; the fourth means is defined by an end-of-arm tool including an engaging portion engageable with at least one of a device body and device closure; the fifth means is defined by at least one source of sterile air in fluid communication with the at least one aseptic chamber; the sixth means is defined by at least one flexible barrier; and the seventh means is defined by at least one flexible barrier. 