A solution for consumer self-service merchandise order placement, payment, and pick up, integrated with a merchant's Internet e-commerce site and with an effective merchant point-of-sale management system. The solution includes a system and apparatus and of a set of specific business methods. A self-service merchandising machine for un-attended, autonomous, and automatic dispensing of retail products includes an input/output subsystem; a control subsystem having and being based upon a computer; a specially configured storage subsystem; a unique pick-and-place robotic-based product retrieval subsystem with an adaptive material handling system; and a product extraction subsystem. A related method of using the machine includes the steps of enabling self-service retail sale; permitting Internet sale with local merchandise pick-up; managing the business operations of the system; replenishing inventory using Kanban methods; restocking inventory; operating and monitoring a security camera; handling Category I error; and handling Category II error.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for un-attended, autonomous, and automatic dispensing of retail products, the method comprising the steps of: (a) interacting with a machine defining a system having an input/output (I/O) subsystem, a control subsystem having and being based upon a computer, a specially configured storage subsystem, a pick-and-place robotic-based product retrieval subsystem, and a product extraction subsystem; (b) enabling self-service retail sale; (c) permitting Internet sale with local product pick-up; (d) managing the business operations of the system; (e) replenishing inventory by processing sales information via software programs contained within the computer and creating and transmitting upon request or at predefined time intervals or at predefined scheduled times data concerning the inventory contained inside the storage subsystem, and providing the data concerning the inventory contained inside the storage subsystem to a regional inventory distribution center, which then analyses the data and, based on the data, causes replacement products to be periodically shipped to and stocked within the storage subsystem, thereby maintaining the contents of the storage subsystem at optimal levels; (f) restocking inventory; (g) operating and monitoring a security camera; (h) handling error arising when a customer's request for a product cannot be fulfilled; and (i) handling error arising when a product delivered to the customer is not acceptable to the customer. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein a customer engages the I/O subsystem to review, select, and designate one or more products to be purchased. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein an input subsystem of the I/O subsystem communicates with the computer to cause a database to present to the customer on an output subsystem pertinent information to enable the customer to use the input subsystem to select specific products available in a storage closet for purchase. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the customer uses the input subsystem to indicate their selection of product or products for purchase and the selection is then transmitted by the I/O subsystem to the control subsystem. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the computer, using software, establishes and transmits commands to the output subsystem and the output subsystem displays to the customer step-wise instructions to initiate a financial transaction using an approved payment method through a financial transaction subsystem. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the customer inserts an approved form of payment into a slot contained in the financial transaction subsystem to commence the financial transaction. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the form of payment is processed by the computer in operative communication via a LAN/WAN subsystem with an external payment authorization service or a retailer's own home office computer. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the customer is informed via the LAN/WAN subsystem through the output subsystem whether the form of payment has been rejected or accepted. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein upon rejection of the form of payment, the customer's form of payment is ejected from the slot and appropriate instructions are displayed on the output subsystem. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein upon acceptance of the form of payment, a message, including the identification of the specific products the customer selected, is communicated via an interface subsystem to the computer for further processing. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein, after the message is communicated, the control subsystem, using the software contained in the control subsystem, provides instructions to a robot interface/control subsystem of the product retrieval subsystem concerning the precise location of the selected product. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein (i) the robot interface/control subsystem causes a robot to traverse in three-dimensional space to a point from which the material handling subsystem of the product retrieval subsystem can reach and grab the selected product. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein (ii) the material handling subsystem grabs the selected product. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein (iii) the material handling subsystem provides a signal feedback to the computer via the robot interface/control subsystem that it successfully grabbed the selected product. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein (iv) the computer commands the robot interface/control subsystem to maneuver the robot to a pre-defined product-deposit position and simultaneously commands the product extraction subsystem to cause a drawer of the product extraction subsystem to unlock and open into a product deposit position. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein (v) the robot interface/control subsystem causes the robot to maneuver in three-dimensional space to a designated deposit position. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein (vi) upon receipt by the computer of a signal indicating the robot has arrived at the designated deposit position, the computer signals the product retrieval subsystem to cause the material handling subsystem to release the product thus causing the product to be deposited into the drawer. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein (vii) the product retrieval subsystem complies with the computer command and causes the product held by the material handling subsystem to be released and, due to the force of gravity, fall into the drawer. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the steps (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi), and (vii) are sequentially repeated until all the products selected by the customer for purchase have been deposited into the drawer. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein, upon determination that all of a customer's selected products have been properly deposited in a drawer of the product extraction subsystem, the computer sends a signal to the product extraction subsystem causing the drawer to rotate about a hinge axis and open into a product extraction position in order to enable the customer to grab and physically remove the contents within the drawer and wherein the product extraction subsystem causes the drawer to open towards the customer and into the product extraction position. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the computer commands an output subsystem of the I/O subsystem to display instructions to the customer to remove their products from the drawer. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the computer commands a financial transaction subsystem of the I/O subsystem to conclude the transaction and to provide the customer with a printed receipt and to release and eject a card of the customer from a card slot contained in the financial transaction subsystem, and wherein the I/O subsystem provides the customer with a printed receipt and causes the card to be ejected to enable the customer to grab and extract the card from the card slot. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein, after the customer removes their card from the card slot, the I/O subsystem sends a signal to the computer and, upon receipt of the signal, the computer commands the product extraction subsystem to cause the drawer to rotate about its hinge axis into an interior and locked position. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine permits a retail merchant or machine operator to complete one or more of (a) monitoring the status and operations of the machine, (b) monitoring the consumption of inventoried products transferred through the machine, and (c) financially consolidating sales made through the machine with sales made within a store using the store's point-of-sale system. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the control subsystem is accessed directly by an authorized and authenticated user while inside a storage closet of the storage subsystem through an I/O subsystem of the control subsystem, or indirectly by an authorized and authenticated user via the Internet and a LAN/WAN subsystem of the control subsystem using a private, secure, encrypted, password-protected communication for the purpose of obtaining system status, a multiplicity of reports, details concerning products remaining or sold, and other relevant business information. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the control subsystem has software and a printer and uses both its software and interactive engagement with the user via the I/O subsystem of the control subsystem and the printer to execute commands entered by the user and to display or print information for the user. 27. The method of claim 25, wherein the control subsystem exchanges data through an operative connection with a point-of-sale system of a store either upon command of an authorized and authenticated user or as scheduled to occur automatically at pre-defined times or time intervals. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the computer communicates with a local point-of-sale system via an operative connection through the LAN/WAN subsystem. 29. The method of claim 27, wherein the computer communicates with a remote back-office computer via an operative connection through the LAN/WAN subsystem and an Internet gateway using a secure and encrypted virtual private network. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein a customer indirectly accesses the control subsystem via an Internet web site of a merchant and a LAN/WAN subsystem using a secure or encrypted mechanism in order to place an order for pick-up. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the customer accesses the Internet web site for the purpose of transacting product selection, purchase, and payment using e-catalog and e-commerce methods. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein a server of the Internet web site communicates product information and credit card identification information with the computer. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the products purchased by the customer are individually picked and placed in a designated temporary storage location inside a storage closet of the storage subsystem for rapid processing by the retrieval subsystem at a later time. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the temporary storage location is one of a storage shelf, a specially configured and set-aside bin, or another structure inside the storage closet configured for optimal performance during (a) the initial storage of the products and (b) the storage of multiple products and (c) the eventual removal of products for deposit in a drawer of the product extraction subsystem for the benefit of the customer. 35. The method of claim 30, wherein the customer upon arrival at a designated location of the machine inserts a form of payment into a slot in an input subsystem of the I/O subsystem. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the computer validates and authenticates by comparing the payment form inserted into the slot with information made available to the computer through communication of product information and credit card identification information between a server of the Internet web site and the computer. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein upon positive identification of the customer, the computer commands the retrieval subsystem to transfer the customer's products from a temporary location to a drawer of the product extraction subsystem. 38. The method of claim 37, wherein upon completion of the transfer of all of the customer's products to the drawer, the computer causes the drawer to open and permit the customer to remove their products. 