The invention provides a method and system having a computer system and imaging sensors that capture image data of an object, such as a carcass, as it moves through a processing facility and is converted into individual food products. The computer system analyzes the image data to produce a blob for the object being monitored. Source information that is referenced with the object being monitored can be associated with the object's blob. The blob can be used to track and identify the object, and to determine when one or more additional objects have been converted from the object being monitored. The computer system can create blobs for the additional objects and associate the referenced information with the new blobs. In one embodiment, the computer system is capable of continuously associating the source information for a particular source unit of food with converted food products that are converted from the source unit.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A method of associating a product with source information comprising: capturing source unit image data of a source unit of food; creating a source unit blob of the source unit from the source unit image data; associating source information that is referenced to the source unit with the source unit blob; converting the source unit into one or more converted products via a conversion activity, wherein the conversion activity comprises cutting, slicing, chopping, or sawing of the source unit; capturing converted product image data of at least one of the one or more converted products; creating a converted product blob of the converted product from the converted product image data; and associating the source information with the converted product blob. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of moving the source unit from a first location to a second location and tracking the position of the source unit between the first and second locations. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of tracking includes the step of obtaining image data of the source unit between the first and second locations. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of associating an identification code with the converted product blob. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising the steps of enclosing at least one of the one or more converted products in a container; encoding a representation of the identification code onto a label; and attaching the label to the container. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the label comprises an RFID tag or a machine-readable bar code. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps of capturing source unit image data and creating a source unit blob occur substantially simultaneously. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of analyzing the source unit blob for the occurrence of a conversion activity. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the steps of creating one or more converted product blobs based on the creation of one or more converted products from the occurrence of the conversion activity, and associating the source information with the one or more converted product blobs. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the conversion activity comprises interacting the source unit with one or more of a hand, glove, cutting instrument, packaging material, or combinations thereof. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of analyzing the source unit blob for the occurrence of a movement activity. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the movement activity comprises one or more moving the source unit to a second location; rotating the source unit; and lifting the source unit of food. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: dividing the source unit into two or more converted products; capturing converted product image data for each of the two more converted products; creating a converted product blob for each of the converted products; and associating the source information with the converted product blob for each of the two or more converted products. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the steps of moving at least one of the two or more converted products from a first location to a second location, and tracking the position of the at least one of the two or more converted products between the first and second locations. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of tracking the position of the at least one of the two or more converted products comprises continuously capturing image data of the at least one of the two or more converted products between the first and second locations. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the step of tracking the position of the at least one of the two or more converted products comprises: obtaining velocity and trajectory data of the at least one of the two or more converted products; and determining an identity of the at least one of the two or more converted products at the second location based on the velocity and trajectory data of the at least one of the two or more converted products. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the source information is associated with the converted product in the absence of physically applying source indicia to any one of the source unit or converted product. 18. A system for associating source information with a product that is converted from the source unit of food, the system comprising: a computer; one or more imaging sensors in communication with the computer, the one or more imaging sensors being configured and arranged in a processing facility to capture image data of one or more source units as they are converted into one or more converted products; computer-readable program code disposed on the computer, the computer-readable program code including a first executable portion for analyzing image data and creating a source unit blob for a source unit of food, a second executable portion for associating source information that has previously been referenced to the one or more source units with the source unit blob, and a third executable portion for determining if the source unit has been converted into one or more converted products via a conversion activity, wherein the conversion activity comprises cutting, slicing, chopping, or sawing of the source unit, and wherein said third executable portion is also capable of analyzing image data of the one or more converted products and creating a converted product blob for at least one of the one or more converted products and associating the source information with the converted product blob. 19. A system according to claim 18, further comprising a fourth executable portion for tracking the position in the processing facility of one or more source units, one or more converted products, or combinations thereof. 20. A system according to claim 19, further comprising a fifth executable portion for analyzing and identifying a converting item in image data captured by the one or more imaging sensors. 21. A system according to claim 20, wherein the fifth executable portion that is configured for analyzing image data to determine if a source unit, converted product, or combination thereof is at a location where a conversion activity occurs. 22. A system according to claim 18, wherein said third executable portion is further configured for analyzing the source unit blob for the occurrence of a conversion activity. 23. A system according to claim 18, wherein said third executable portion is further configured for analyzing the source unit blob for the interaction of a converting item with a source unit, a converted product, or a combination thereof. 24. A system according to claim 18, further comprising a data entry device that is in communication with the computer. 25. A system according to claim 18, further comprising a RF transceiver that is in communication with the computer and is capable of encoding a representation of an identification code onto a label. 26. A system according to claim 18, further comprising a printer that is in communication with the computer and is capable of printing a machine readable code onto a label. 27. A system according to claim 18, further comprising an executable portion that is configured to associate a source unit blob, converted product blob, or a combination thereof with information relating to the weight, color, textural features, or temperature of the source unit, converted product for which the information was obtained. 28. A system according to claim 18, wherein the computer is operatively connected to one or more automated systems that are capable of physically interacting with one or more source units, one or more converted products, or combinations thereof. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the source unit is animal or an animal carcass and wherein the source information includes one or more of animal type, animal lineage, date of animal slaughter, diet of the animal, or animal processing facility. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the source unit is a cow, pig, chicken or sheep. 31. A system according to claim 18, wherein the source unit is animal or an animal carcass and wherein the source information includes one or more of animal type, animal lineage, date of animal slaughter, diet of the animal, or animal processing facility. 32. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of associating source information that is created during the step of converting the source unit into one or more converted products with the source unit blob or with the one or more converted product blobs. 