This disclosure provides a system and method for updating a control system using an encrypted source code update. The example control system often includes a processor for managing at least a portion of the control system and flash memory communicably coupled with the processor, with the processor operable to load an encrypted update into the flash memory. In one example, a method for updating the control system would include identifying an update for a control system with the update comprising encrypted object code and the control system comprising at least a first processor. At least the first processor is then updated based on or using the identified update.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for updating a control system comprising: identifying an update for a robot control system, the update comprising encrypted object code and the control system comprising at least a first processor; loading the encrypted update into second memory associated with a second processor; decrypting the update into master memory from the second memory, wherein decrypting the update into master memory from the second memory includes: communicating a first portion of the encrypted update to the master memory from the second memory; and decrypting the first portion of the encrypted update; communicating configuration data from the second processor to the first processor; erasing at least a portion of the master memory, the portion associated with the update based on the configuration data; flashing the portion of the master memory with the updated code; and updating the first processor based at least in part on the flashed portion of the master memory. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the update comprises receiving an automatically generated notification that the update is available. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising receiving the identified update from a client, the client capable of downloading the encrypted update from a third party. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising erasing the second memory prior to loading the encrypted update. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising resetting the second processor after loading the encrypted update into the second memory. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: communicating a second portion of the encrypted update to the master memory from the second memory; and decrypting the second portion of the encrypted update. 7. The method of claim 6, each portion of the encrypted update comprising one block of memory. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: writing a reset value to the master memory; and invoking a reset of the first processor using the master memory. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising loading second memory with customized code after decrypting the update into master memory from the second memory. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein decrypting the update into the master memory comprises decrypting the update using a multi-key algorithm. 11. A control system comprising: a first processor for managing at least a portion of a robot control system; flash master memory communicably coupled with the first processor; a second processor; a second memory communicably coupled with the second processor; and wherein the control system loads an encrypted update into the second memory, decrypts the update into the master memory from the second memory using the second processor by communicating a first portion of the encrypted update to the master memory from the second memory and decrypting the first portion of the encrypted update, communicates configuration data from the second processor to the first processor, erases at least a portion of the master flash memory, with the portion associated with the update based on the configuration data, and flashes at least a portion of the master memory with the updated code for use by the first processor. 12. The control system of claim 11, the control system communicably coupled to a client and the update received from the client, with the client capable of downloading the encrypted update from a third party. 13. The control system of claim 11, further operable to erase the second memory prior to loading the encrypted update. 14. The control system of claim 11, further operable to reset the second processor after loading the encrypted update into the second memory. 15. The control system of claim 11, further operable to: communicate a second portion of the encrypted update to the master memory from the second memory; and decrypt the second portion of the encrypted update. 16. The control system of claim 15, each portion of the encrypted update comprising one block of memory. 17. The control system of claim 16, further operable to: write reset value to the master memory; and invoke a reset of the first processor using the master memory. 18. The control system of claim 17, further operable to load the second memory with customized code. 19. The control system of claim 17, wherein the one control system operable to decrypt the update into master memory comprises the control system operable to decrypt the update using a multi-key algorithm. 20. A control system loader comprising computer readable instructions, embodied in a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, operable when executed to: identify an update for a robot control system, the update comprising encrypted object code and the control system comprising at least a first processor; load the encrypted update into second memory associated with a second processor; decrypt the update into master memory from the second memory; load the second memory with customized code after decrypting the update into master memory from the second memory; communicate configuration data from the second processor to the first processor; erase at least a portion of the master memory prior to the decryption, the portion associated with the update based on the configuration data; flash at least the portion of the master memory with the updated code; update the first processor based at least in part on the flashed portion of the master memory; write a reset value to the master memory; and invoke a reset of the first processor using the master memory. 21. A method for updating a control system comprising: identifying an update for a robot control system, the update comprising encrypted object code and the control system comprising at least a first processor; loading the encrypted update into second memory associated with a second processor; decrypting the update into master memory from the second memory; loading the second memory with customized code after decrypting the update into the master memory from the second memory; communicating configuration data from the second processor to the first processor; erasing at least a portion of the master memory, the portion associated with the update based on the configuration data; flashing the portion of the master memory with the updated code; and updating the first processor based at least in part on the flashed portion of the master memory. 22. A control system comprising: a first processor for managing a least a portion of a robot control system; flash master memory communicably coupled with the first processor; a second processor; a second memory communicably coupled with the second processor; and wherein the control system loads an encrypted update into the second memory, decrypts the update into the master memory from the second memory using the second processor, loads the second memory with customized code after decrypting the update into the master memory from the second memory, communicates configuration data from the second processor to the first processor, erases at least a portion of the master flash memory, with the portion associated with the update based on the configuration data, and flashes at least a portion of the master memory with the updated code for use by the first processor. 