A number of wafer center finding methods and systems are disclosed herein that improve upon existing techniques used in semiconductor manufacturing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for finding a center of a wafer in a device having an interior and a plurality of entrances, the interior containing a robotic arm, and the device including a plurality of sensors, each one of the sensors adapted to detect a presence of the wafer at a predetermined location within the interior of the device, the method comprising: retrieving the wafer from outside the interior through a first one of the plurality of entrances; retracting the wafer into the interior and detecting a presence of the wafer with a first one of the plurality of sensors; rotating the robotic arm; extending the wafer out of the interior through a second one of the plurality of entrances and detecting an absence of the wafer with the first one of the plurality of sensors; and determining a location of a center of the wafer relative to the robotic arm using sensor data from the plurality of sensors and position data from the robotic arm. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of sensors include optical sensors. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the plurality of sensors include light emitting diodes. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the plurality of sensors include auto focusing photodiode detectors. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein determining a location includes applying a Kalman Filter to the position data from the robotic arm. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising updating the Kalman Filter based upon the sensor data. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the wafer is substantially circular. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the wafer includes an alignment notch. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of sensors include at least one detector positioned opposite a light emitting diode such that a light path from the light emitting diode to the light detector includes a predetermined position within the interior. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of sensors include at least one detector positioned such that light from a light emitting diode, when reflected off of the wafer at a predetermined location, is detected by the detector. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein retracting includes retracting in a linear motion. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein extending includes extending in a linear motion. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein rotating includes rotating about a center axis of the robotic arm. 14. A method for finding a center of a wafer in a device having an interior and a plurality of entrances, the interior containing a robotic arm, and the device including a plurality of sensors, each one of the sensors adapted to detect a presence of the wafer at a predetermined location within the interior of the device, the method comprising: retrieving the wafer from outside the interior through a first one of the plurality of entrances; retracting the wafer into the interior; rotating the robotic arm; extending the wafer out of the interior through a second one of the plurality of entrances; detecting the presence of the wafer at a predetermined location of at least one sensor during the retracting, rotating, and extending, thereby providing sensor data; and determining a location of a center of the wafer relative to the robotic arm using the sensor data and position data from the robotic arm. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the plurality of sensors include optical sensors. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the plurality of sensors include light emitting diodes. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the plurality of sensors include auto focusing photodiode detectors. 18. The method of claim 14 wherein determining a location includes applying a Kalman Filter to the position data from the robotic arm. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising updating the Kalman Filter based upon the sensor data. 20. The method of claim 14 wherein the wafer is substantially circular. 