A data storage disc carrier (1) for carrying discs (10). The carrier includes an axial clamping mechanism which incorporates a three legged resilient clamping member (7) that can flees between release and clamping positions to allow easy loading a gripping of discs (10). The clamping member is articulatingly mounted on a tail (4) that is gripped to provide clamping.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A data storage disc carrier for holding at least one data storage disc during rotation about an axis, the data storage disc carrier comprising: a central hub on which at least one data storage disc may be carried; and an axial clamping arrangement for axially clamping at least one data storage disc carried on the central hub, and comprising a plurality of clamping portions which are movable between a clamping position and a release position wherein when each clamping portion is in the clamping position, each clamping portion may act on a carried disc to provide axial clamping on the disc and when each clamping portion is in the release position, each clamping portion is disposed radially inwards of its position when in the clamping position for allowing data storage discs to be loaded onto and/or removed from the hub, wherein the axial clamping arrangement comprises a clamping assembly having a head portion and a tail portion, the head portion being articulatingly mounted to the tail portion and comprising a clamping member of which the plurality of clamping portions are a part, such that the clamping portions can all commonly pivot as a unit relative to the tail portion, and the tail portion extending axially through the central hub during normal use. 2. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the tail portion is operable to displace the clamping member axially, moving said clamping portion between the clamping position and the release position. 3. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the axial clamping arrangement comprises a biasing arrangement for biasing the clamping assembly and applying axial clamping force to carried discs, the biasing arrangement being arranged to act on the tail portion of the clamping assembly with connection between the tail and head transferring the effect of the biasing arrangement to the head so that, where discs are carried, the force is then exerted on the discs via the head. 4. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 3 in which the biasing arrangement comprises a spring for exerting a force on the clamping assembly. 5. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 3 in which the biasing arrangement comprises at least one wave spring. 6. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 3 in which the biasing arrangement comprises a pair of wave springs separated by a spacer. 7. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the head portion is connected to the tail portion by a ball-and-socket joint. 8. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 arranged so that, when in the release position, said clamping portion is located flush with or radially inwardly of an outer surface of the central hub. 9. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the clamping member has a release configuration, in which the clamping portion is in the release position, and a clamping configuration, in which said clamping portion is in the clamping position. 10. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 9 in which the clamping member is deformable between the release configuration and clamping configuration. 11. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 10 which is arranged such that axial movement of the clamping member causes a force to be exerted on the clamping member, deforming the clamping member from the release configuration to the clamping configuration. 12. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the central hub comprises a tube portion over which the bores of data storage discs may pass arranged so that: when said clamping portion is in the release position, said clamping portion is within the radius of the central hub and data storage discs may be slid on and off the tube portion; and when said clamping portion is in the clamping position, said clamping portion is disposed beyond the radius of the central hub and the bores of the data storage discs intended for use with that carrier will not be large enough to pass over said clamping portion. 13. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the clamping member is removably attachable to the central hub. 14. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 13 in which the clamping arrangement is arranged so that it is not necessary to remove the clamping member before mounting or removing data storage discs. 15. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the clamping member is axially displaceable to cause said clamping portion to move between the clamping position and the release position. 16. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the clamping member is at least partly of flexible material. 17. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 16 in which the flexible material is electrostatic dissipative material such as an electrostatic dissipative acetal copolymer. 18. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which, when in the clamping position, said clamping portion extends down an outer surface of the central hub. 19. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which a surface of said clamping portion rests against an outer surface of the central hub. 20. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 19 which is arranged so that movement of the clamping member relative to the central hub causes the clamping member to deform so that said clamping portion follows the contour of the outer surface of the central hub. 21. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 20 in which the outer surface of the central hub in the region of the clamping member is tapered and the clamping member is arranged so that axial movement of the clamping member relative to the central hub causes said clamping portion to slide along the taper and move radially by virtue of following the taper. 22. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the clamping member comprises a leg which comprises said clamping portion. 23. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the clamping member comprises a plurality of clamping legs, each of the legs comprising a respective one of the plurality of clamping portions. 24. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 23 in which the clamping legs are arranged to splay when the clamping member is moved from a release configuration to a clamping configuration. 25. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 which comprises a cap to cover at least part of the clamping member. 26. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which said clamping portion is arranged to act directly on the at least one data storage disc. 27. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the axial clamping arrangement is biased towards a clamping position when no external force is exerted on the carrier. 28. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 in which the axial clamping arrangement is arranged for actuation by an actuator which is distinct from the carrier. 29. A data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 which is arranged for releasable mounting on a drive spindle. 30. A data storage disc carrier arrangement comprising a data storage disc carrier according to claim 1 and a clamping arrangement actuator for operating the clamping arrangement wherein the clamping arrangement is arranged for rotation with the hub relative to the clamping arrangement actuator. 31. A data storage disc carrier arrangement according to claim 30 and further comprising a drive spindle for rotatingly driving the carrier and carried discs, wherein the disc carrier is releasably mounted on the drive spindle. 32. A data storage disc carrier for holding at least one data storage disc during rotation about an axis, the data storage disc carrier comprising: a central hub upon which the at least one data storage disc may be carried, the central hub being tapered towards one end; and a clamping assembly comprising a tail portion extending axially through the central hub and a head portion, the head portion being articulatingly mounted to the tail portion and comprising a clamping member having plurality of clamping portions for axially clamping at least one data storage disc carried on the central hub, each clamping portion being movable between a clamping position and a release position wherein, when each clamping portion is in the clamping position, each clamping portion is disposed radially outwards of its position when in the release position, the data storage disc carrier being arranged so that, when the clamping member is disposed on the central hub, a surface of each clamping portion rests against the tapered surface of the central hub and movement of the clamping member axially relative to the central hub causes each clamping portion to follow the tapered surface of the central hub, such that the clamping portions can all commonly pivot as a unit relative to the tail portion. 33. A data storage disc carrier clamping assembly comprising a tail portion articulatingly mounted to a head portion, the head portion comprising a clamping member comprising a plurality of clamping legs arranged about an axis, each leg comprising a respective clamping portion for axially clamping at least one data storage disc carried on a data storage disc carrier, wherein the tail portion is for being received axially in a data storage disc carrier and each clamping portion is movable between a clamping position and a release position such that when the clamping portion is in the clamping position, the clamping portion may act on a carried disc to provide axial clamping on the disc and when the clamping portion is in the release position, the clamping portion is disposed radially inwards of its position when in the clamping position for allowing data storage discs to be loaded onto and/or removed from the hub, such that the clamping portions can all commonly pivot as a unit relative to the tail portion. 