An automation apparatus and method includes a first unit rotationally moving objects from one area to another, and a second unit connected to the first unit and holding the objects, moving through or offset from the body of the first unit from a first side of the first unit to the other side the first unit in a direction other than the rotational movement by the first unit. Moreover, the apparatus and method provides moving the objects through a vertical axis of the body of the first unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automation apparatus, comprising: a first unit, including a body, for moving objects from one area to another; a second unit, connected to the first unit, for moving the objects through the body of the first unit from one side of the first unit to the other side the first unit; and a rotating pedestal, upon which the first unit is mounted, including a stationary pedestal plate for accommodating a reorientation of the objects when the objects move through the body of the first unit. 2. The automation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the objects move through a vertical axis of the body of the first unit. 3. The automation apparatus of claim 2, wherein the second unit includes a telescoping portion. 4. The automation apparatus of claim 2, wherein the second unit includes an articulated portion to reorient the object. 5. The automation apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a counter weight on the second unit. 6. The automation apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the first unit is a base column, having rotational movement, that includes two plates defining a cavity therebetween, and the second unit is an arm. 7. The automation apparatus of claim 2, wherein the second unit comprises: an arm; a rotatable gripper, connected to the arm, for grasping, releasing and reorienting the objects; and a motor, accommodating the movement of the arm and gripper, with a counter weight providing balance. 8. A method of an automation system, comprising: moving objects from one area to another using a first unit mounted to a rotating pedestal that includes a stationary pedestal plate; moving the objects through the first unit from one side of the first unit to the other side of the first unit using a second unit connected to the first unit; and reorienting the objects, using the second unit and the stationary pedestal plate, when the objects move through the first unit. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising moving the objects through a vertical axis of the first unit. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising telescoping the second unit from and to a location to hold the object or release the object. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the second unit is an arm with an articulated portion. 12. The method of claim 8, further comprising providing a counter weight on the second unit. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein: the first unit is a base column, having rotational movement, that includes two plates defining a cavity therebetween, and the second unit is an arm. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein the second unit is an arm, and further comprising: moving the arm in horizontal and vertical directions about the first unit; grasping and releasing the objects using a gripper connected to the arm, the gripper accommodating reorientation or placement of the objects; and providing movement of the arm and gripper through a motor with a counter weight providing balance. 15. An automation system, comprising: a first means for moving objects from one area to another; a second means, connected to the first means, for moving the objects through the first means from one side of the first means to the other side the first means; and a rotating third means, upon which the first means is mounted, including a stationary portion for accommodating a reorientation of the objects when the objects move through the first means. 16. The automation system of claim 15, wherein the objects move through a vertical axis of the first means. 17. The automation system of claim 16, wherein the second means includes a telescoping portion. 18. The automation system of claim 16, wherein the second means includes an articulated portion to reorient the objects from a first direction to a second direction. 19. The automation system of claim 15, wherein the first means includes a pair of walls defining a cavity therebetween through which the object is moved. 