A storage device transporter is provided for transporting a storage device and for mounting a storage device within a test slot. The storage device transporter includes a frame that is configured to receive and support a storage device, and a clamping mechanism associated with the frame. The clamping mechanism is operable to apply a clamping force to a storage device supported by the frame The storage device transporter also includes a temperature sensor (e.g., a thermocouple). The clamping mechanism is operable to move the temperature sensor into contact with a storage device supported by the frame for measuring a temperature of the storage device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage device transporter for mounting a storage device within a test slot, the storage device transporter comprising: a frame configured to receive and support a storage device; and a clamping mechanism associated with the frame and configured to apply a clamping force to a storage device supported by the frame; and a temperature sensor, wherein the clamping mechanism is configured to move the temperature sensor into contact with a storage device supported by the frame for measuring a temperature of the storage device and simultaneously clamp the storage device against movement relative to the test slot in response to pressure reactive to the test slot. 2. The storage device transporter of claim 1, further comprising an electric heating element arranged to heat a storage device supported by the frame. 3. The storage device transporter of claim 2, wherein the clamping mechanism is configured to move the temperature sensor and the electric heating element into contact with a storage device supported by the frame. 4. The storage device transporter of claim 1, wherein the clamping mechanism is further configured to clamp the storage device against movement relative to the frame. 5. A test slot assembly comprising: A.) a storage device transporter comprising: i.) a frame configured to receive and support a storage device, ii.) a temperature sensor, and ii.) a clamping mechanism associated with the frame, the clamping mechanism being configured to apply a clamping force to a storage device supported by the frame and configured to move the temperature sensor into contact with a storage device supported by the frame for measuring a temperature of the storage device and simultaneously clamp the storage device against movement relative to a test slot in response to pressure reactive to the test slot; and B.) the test slot comprising: i.) a test compartment for receiving and supporting the storage device transporter. 6. The test slot assembly of claim 5, wherein the storage device transporter further comprises an electrical heating element arranged to heat a storage device supported by the frame. 7. The test slot assembly of claim 6, wherein the clamping mechanism is configured to move the temperature sensor and the electric heating element into contact with a storage device supported by the frame. 8. The test slot assembly of claim 5, wherein the clamping mechanism is further configured to clamp the storage device against movement relative to the frame. 9. A storage device testing system comprising: A.) a storage device transporter comprising: i.) a frame configured to receive and support a storage device, and ii.) a temperature sensor, and ii.) a clamping mechanism associated with the frame, the clamping mechanism being configured to apply a clamping force to a storage device supported by the frame and configured to move the temperature sensor into contact with a storage device supported by the frame for measuring a temperature of the storage device and simultaneously clamp the storage device against movement relative to a test slot in response to pressure reactive to the test slot; and B.) the test slot comprising: i.) a test compartment for receiving and supporting the storage device transporter; ii.) a connection interface board; and C.) test electronics configured to communicate one or more test routines to a storage device disposed within the test compartment, wherein the connection interface board is configured to provide electrical communication between the temperatures sensor and the test electronics when the storage device transporter is disposed within the test compartment. 10. The storage device testing system of claim 9, wherein the storage device transporter further comprises an electric heating element arranged to heat a storage device supported by the frame. 11. The storage device testing system of claim 9, wherein the clamping mechanism is further configured to clamp the storage device against movement relative to the frame. 