Embodiments of the present invention provide a method of forming an electrical connection on a device. In one embodiment, the electrical connection is attached to the device via an adhesive having electrically conductive particles disposed therein. In one embodiment, the adhesive is cured while applying pressure such that the conductive particles align, have a reduced particle-to-particle spacing, or come into contact with each other to provide a more directly conductive (less resistive) path between the electrical connection and the device. In one embodiment of the present invention, a method for forming an electrical lead on a partially formed solar cell during formation of the solar cell device is provided. The method comprises placing a side-buss wire onto a pattern of electrically conductive adhesive disposed on a back contact layer of a solar cell device substrate, laminating the side-buss wire and electrically conductive adhesive between the solar cell device substrate and a back glass substrate to form a composite solar cell structure, and curing the electrically conductive adhesive while applying pressure and heat to the composite solar cell structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming an electrical connection, comprising: dispensing an electrically conductive adhesive onto a surface of a first conductive member; positioning a second conductive member onto the electrically conductive adhesive; positioning a polymeric material over the first and second conductive members; disposing a substrate over the polymeric material to form a composite structure; compressing the composite structure at a pressure substantially exceeding atmospheric pressure; and curing the electrically conductive adhesive while compressing the composite structure. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising applying heat to the composite structure during curing the electrically conductive adhesive. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein compressing the composite structure further comprises compressing the composite structure at a pressure between about 11 bar and about 15 bar. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein compressing the composite structure further comprises compressing the composite structure for between about 1 hour and about 4 hours. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein compressing the composite structure further comprises isostatically compressing the composite structure. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein applying heat comprises applying heat at a temperature between about 140.degree. C. and about 160.degree. C. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the conductive adhesive comprises an epoxy having conductive particles disposed therein, wherein the conductive particles are selected from the group consisting of silver, gold, copper, nickel, carbon, and graphite. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the first conductive element comprises a substrate having one or more silicon layers formed thereover and a back contact layer formed over the one or more silicon layers. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the second conductive element comprises a side-buss wire. 10. A method of forming an electrical connection, comprising: dispensing an electrically conductive adhesive onto a surface of a back contact layer of a solar cell substrate, wherein the solar cell substrate comprises: a glass substrate; a transparent conductive layer deposited over the glass substrate; one or more silicon layers deposited over the transparent conductive layer; and a back contact layer deposited over the one or more silicon layers; positioning a portion of a side-buss onto a portion of the electrically conductive adhesive; positioning a polymeric material over the back contact layer and the side-bus; disposing a back glass substrate over the polymeric material to form a composite structure; compressing the composite structure at a pressure substantially exceeding atmospheric pressure; and curing the electrically conductive adhesive while compressing the composite structure. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising applying heat to the composite structure between about 140.degree. C. and about 160.degree. C. during curing the electrically conductive adhesive. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein compressing the composite structure further comprises compressing the composite structure at a pressure between about 11 bar and about 15 bar for between about 1 hour and about 4 hours. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the conductive adhesive comprises an epoxy having conductive particles contained therein, wherein the conductive particles are selected from the group consisting of silver, gold, copper, nickel, carbon, and graphite. 14. A method of forming an electrical connection, comprising: dispensing an electrically conductive adhesive onto a surface of a back contact layer of a solar cell substrate in a bonding wire attach module of a solar cell production line, wherein the conductive adhesive comprises an epoxy having conductive particles dispersed therein, and wherein the solar cell substrate comprises: a glass substrate; a transparent conductive layer deposited over the glass substrate; one or more silicon layers deposited over the transparent conductive layer; a back contact layer deposited over the one or more silicon layers; and a cross-buss disposed over the back contact layer such that the cross-buss is insulated from the back contact layer; positioning a portion of a side-buss onto a portion of the electrically conductive adhesive; positioning a polymeric material over the back contact layer and the side-buss; disposing a back glass substrate over the polymeric material to form a composite structure; compressing the composite structure at a pressure substantially exceeding atmospheric pressure; curing the electrically conductive adhesive while compressing the composite structure in an autoclave module of the solar cell production line; and controlling the timing between dispensing the electrically conductive adhesive and curing the electrically conductive adhesive via a system controller in the solar cell production line. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising applying heat at a temperature between about 140.degree. C. and about 160.degree. C. to the composite structure during curing the electrically conductive adhesive in the autoclave module of the solar cell production line. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein compressing the composite structure further comprises isostatically compressing the composite structure at a pressure between about 11 bar and about 15 bar for a time period between about 1 hour and about 4 hours in the autoclave module of the solar cell production line. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising laminating the composite structure in a lamination module of the solar cell production line prior to compressing the composite structure. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein laminating the composite structure comprises preheating the composite structure and compressing the composite structure via compression rollers. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the conductive particles are selected from the group consisting of silver, gold, copper, nickel, carbon, and graphite. 