The present invention provides devices and structures and methods of use thereof in electrochemical actuation. This invention provides electrochemical actuators, which are based, inter-alia, on an electric field-driven intercalation or alloying of high-modulus inorganic compounds, which can produce large and reversible volume changes, providing high actuation energy density, high actuation authority and large free strain.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrochemical actuator, comprising: a. a negative electrode; b. a positive electrode; and c. an intercalating species; wherein, when said electrochemical actuator is subjected to an applied voltage or current, or is permitted to discharge from an initially charged state, intercalation or deintercalation of said species in at least one of the electrodes of said actuator results in a volumetric or dimensional change of said actuator and linear strain of at least 1% is produced. 2. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein said volumetric or dimensional change is in said negative electrode, said positive electrode, or a combination thereof. 3. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein said negative electrode or positive electrode undergoes a phase change, anisotropic expansion, or anisotropic contraction upon intercalation. 4. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein said negative electrode, positive electrode, or combination thereof is lithium or a lithium-metal alloy, which may be crystalline, nanocrystalline, or amorphous. 5. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein an electrode comprises carbon in the form of graphite, a carbon fiber structure, a glassy carbon structure, a highly oriented pyrolytic graphite, a disordered carbon structure, or a combination thereof. 6. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein the intercalating species is an ion. 7. The electrochemical actuator of claim 1, wherein the intercalating species is a proton, an alkali metal, or an alkaline earth metal. 8. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises aluminum, silver, gold, boron, bismuth, gallium, germanium, indium, lead, antimony, silicon, tin, or a combination thereof. 9. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises aluminum. 10. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises silver. 11. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises gold. 12. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises boron. 13. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises bismuth. 14. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises gallium. 15. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises germanium. 16. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises indium. 17. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises lead. 18. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises antimony. 19. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises silicon. 20. The electrochemical actuator of claim 4, wherein said negative electrode comprises lithium metal and said positive electrode comprises tin. 