A medical manipulator comprises a working unit (10) that performs operations, an operating unit (20) that generates instructions, a drive unit (50) that drives the working unit on the basis of instructions given thereto by the operating unit, a power transmission mechanism (60) for transmitting driving force of the drive unit to the working unit, and a control unit (40) for controlling the power transmission mechanism on the basis of instructions given thereto by the operating unit. The power transmission mechanism includes a first power transmission unit (61) interlocked with the drive unit, and a second power transmission unit (63) interlocked with the working unit and capable of being detachably connected to the first power transmission unit. A back drive torque of the first power transmission unit is larger than a back drive torque of the second power transmission unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of using a medical manipulator when the medical manipulator is stopped in an emergency in a state where a working unit is inserted in a cavity of a surgical subject: the medical manipulator comprising: the working unit that performs operations; an operating unit that generates instructions; a drive unit that drives the working unit on the basis of instructions given thereto by the operating unit; a power transmission mechanism for transmitting driving force of the drive unit to the working unit; and a control unit for controlling the power transmission mechanism on the basis of instructions given thereto by the operating unit; wherein the power transmission mechanism includes a first power transmission unit interlocked with the drive unit, and a second power transmission unit interlocked with the working unit and capable of being detachably connected to the first power transmission unit; said method of using the medical manipulator comprising the steps of: removing at least the drive unit and the first power transmission unit; and extracting the working unit and the second power transmission unit from the cavity of the surgical subject. 2. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 1, comprising the step of; setting the working unit in a safe position by manually operating the second power transmission unit. 3. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 1, comprising the step of; setting the working unit in a safe position by manually operating the working unit using a forceps. 4. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the medical manipulator comprising: a first base for mounting the first power transmission unit and the drive unit, a second base for mounting the second power transmission unit, the second base capable of being detachably connected to the first base, and a latch means for detachably connecting the first base and second base together. 5. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the first power transmission unit and the second power transmission unit are disconnected and the working unit is sterilized and/or cleaned. 6. A medical manipulator comprising: a working unit that performs operations; an operating unit that generates instructions; a drive unit that drives the working unit on the basis of instructions given thereto by the operating unit; and a power transmission mechanism for transmitting driving force of the drive unit to the working unit; wherein the power transmission mechanism includes a first power transmission unit interlocked with the drive unit, and a second power transmission unit interlocked with the working unit and capable of being detachably connected to the first power transmission unit. 7. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 6, further comprising a control unit for controlling the power transmission mechanism on the basis of instructions given thereto by the operating unit; wherein the control unit is initialized upon the connection of the medical manipulator to a power source, the control unit remains in a waiting state after initialization, the control unit periodically monitors instructions provided by an operator while the control unit is in the waiting state; the control unit controls the working unit such that the position of the working unit follows that of the operating unit and monitors a return-to-origin instruction when an operation start instruction is given thereto in the waiting, the control unit executes a return-to-origin operation upon the detection of the return-to-origin instruction to control the drive unit to set the working unit in a predetermined position and holds the working unit in the predetermined position and remains in the waiting state after the working unit has been set in the initial position, the control unit makes a query to see whether or not an operation performed immediately before remaining in the waiting state is the return-to-origin operation when a system shutdown instruction is given thereto in the waiting state, the control unit decides that a shutdown procedure is possible when it is determined that the operation performed immediately before remaining in the waiting state is the return-to-origin operation, and the control unit decides that the system shutdown instruction is given wrongly when it is determined that the operation performed immediately before remaining in the waiting state is not the return-to-origin operation. 8. A medical manipulator comprising according to claim 6: wherein the power transmission mechanism includes a reduction device interposed between the drive unit and the first power transmission unit. 9. The medical manipulator according to claim 6: further comprising an origin detecting means capable of being connected to and disconnected from the first power transmission unit in a state where the first power transmission unit is disconnected from the second power transmission unit and of detecting a predetermined connecting position for the first power transmission unit when connected to the first power transmission unit. 10. The medical manipulator according to claim 6, wherein the working unit and the second power transmission unit are integrated in an assembly, the operating unit and the first power transmission unit are integrated in an assembly, and the assembly of the working unit and the second power transmission unit, and the assembly of the operating unit and the first power transmission unit can detachably connected together. 11. The medical manipulator according to claim 6, wherein the working unit and the second power transmission unit are integrated in an assembly, and the assembly of the working unit and the second power transmission unit, the first power transmission unit, and the operating unit can detachably be connected together. 12. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 6 when the medical manipulator is stopped in an emergency in a state where the working unit is inserted in a cavity of a surgical subject, said method comprising the steps of: removing at least the drive unit and the first power transmission unit; and extracting the working unit and the second power transmission unit from the cavity of the surgical subject. 13. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 12: comprising the step of; setting the working unit in a safe position by manually operating the second power transmission unit. 14. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 12: comprising the step of; setting the working unit in a safe position by manually operating the working unit using a forceps. 15. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 6, wherein the first power transmission unit and the second power transmission unit are disconnected and the working unit is sterilized and/or cleaned. 16. A control method of controlling a medical manipulator including a working unit that performs operations, an operating unit that produces operation instructions, a drive unit that drives the working unit on the basis of operation instructions provided by the operating unit, and a control unit that controls the drive unit on the basis of operation instructions provided by the operating unit, said control method comprising: periodically monitoring instructions provided by an operator in a waiting state; controlling the working unit such that the position of the working unit follows that of the operating unit and monitoring a return-to-origin instruction when an operation start instruction is given in the waiting state; executing a return-to-origin operation upon the detection of the return-to-origin instruction to control the drive unit to set the working unit in a predetermined position, and holding the working unit in the initial position and keeping the waiting state after the working unit has been set in the initial position; making a query to see whether or not an operation performed immediately before the start of the waiting state is the return-to-origin operation when a system shutdown instruction is detected in the waiting state; deciding that a shutdown procedure is possible when it is determined that the operation performed immediately before the start of the waiting state is the return-to-origin operation; and deciding that the system shutdown instruction is given wrongly when it is determined that the operation performed immediately before starting the waiting state is not the return-to-origin operation. 17. A method of using the medical manipulator according to claim 16, wherein the medical manipulator comprising: a first base for mounting the first power transmission unit and the drive unit, a second base for mounting the second power transmission unit, the second base capable of being detachably connected to the first base, and a latch means for detachably connecting the first base and the second base together. 18. A control device of controlling a medical manipulator including a working unit that performs operations, an operating unit that produces operation instructions, a drive unit that drives the working unit on the basis of operation instructions provided by the operating unit, and a control unit that controls the drive unit on the basis of operation instructions provided by the operating unit, said control method comprising: periodically monitoring instructions provided by an operator in a waiting state; controlling the working unit such that the position of the working unit follows that of the operating unit and monitoring a return-to-origin instruction when an operation start instruction is given in the waiting state; executing a return-to-origin operation upon the detection of the return-to-origin instruction to control the drive unit to set the working unit in a predetermined position, and holding the working unit in the initial position and keeping the waiting state after the working unit has been set in the initial position; making a query to see whether or not an operation performed immediately before the start of the waiting state is the return-to-origin operation when a system shutdown instruction is detected in the waiting state; deciding that a shutdown procedure is possible when it is determined that the operation performed immediately before the start of the waiting state is the return-to-origin operation; and deciding that the system shutdown instruction is given wrongly when it is determined that the operation performed immediately before starting the waiting state is not the return-to-origin operation. 