An operator to host communications interface for managing a manual data storage library. A host processor controls Peripheral Data Storage Devices (PDSDs) in the library. Displayed operator interaction fields are presented by a graphical user interface on the screen of a display device connected to a library manager controller. Library manager program code loaded in program memory in the library manager controller is provided with interface logic, for communicating with external devices, as well as the PDSDs through the host processor. The operator communications interface is an integral component of the library and thus may be used for: alerting an operator of the need to mount or demount a particular data medium; alerting an operator with coherent and succinct messages thus improving the quality of messages provided to operators; and alerting an operator with a minimum number of messages. Additionally, the operator may use the communications interface to access the status of PDSDs and to schedule maintenance activities, such as cleaning of the PDSDs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a manually operated data storage library requiring at least one operator, said library having a plurality of data storage bins, each data storage bin capable of storing one data storage medium therein, each data storage medium including at least one data volume, said library further having one or more peripheral data storage devices (PDSDs), each PDSD capable of having a data volume mounted therein, and said library also having a data path from said PDSDs to a host processing control means for controlling said PDSDs, a combination for managing said library comprising: a library manager controller including program memory and a data path to said host processing control means, and further including host interface logic means for communicating with said host processing control means; a display device having a screen and being connected to said library manager controller for alerting said operator of a task to transfer a data volume from a data storage bin to a PDSD and from a PDSD to a data storage bin; graphical user interface means in said library manager controller for constructing graphical user interaction fields on said screen, said fields including an action list window visually presenting library tasks for performance by a human operator, each said library task being selected from a group of tasks comprising exchanging one of said data storage media between a respective data storage bin and a selected PDSD: operator input means for allowing an operator to interact with said user interaction fields; a library management database, coupled to said library manager controller, containing storage data indicative of respective locations of said data storage media in said manually operated data storage library; and library manager program means in said library manager controller program memory for managing bidirectional communication between said host processing control means and an operator through said host interface logic means and said graphical user interface means in order to carry out the operator task of transferring a data volume from a data storage bin to a PDSD and from a PDSD to a data storage bin. 2. The combination of claim 1 further including a read/write storage device for storing data received from said operator and said host processing control means. 3. The combination of claim 2 further including external device interface logic means for sending data to at least one external device and receiving data from said at least one external device. 4. The combination of claim 3, wherein said external device is an optical scanner, such that data received by said external device interface logic means from said scanner is transmitted to said library manager program means for communication to said read/write storage device. 5. The combination of claim 3, wherein said external device is a large message display panel for displaying said data sent to said external device through said external device interface logic, and also for displaying said data stored on said read/write storage device. 6. The combination of claim 3, wherein said external device interface logic is an Application Program Interface (API). 7. The combination of claim 2, wherein said graphical user interaction fields on said screen include a plurality of selections for allowing an operator to store data on said read/write storage device and said data contains volsers of volumes to be added to said library. 8. The combination of claim 1, wherein at least one of said PDSDs is a tape drive. 9. The combination of claim 1, wherein at least one of said PDSDs is a disk drive. 10. The combination of claim 1, wherein said operator input means is a mouse. 11. The combination of claim 1, wherein said operator input means is a keyboard. 12. The combination of claim 1, wherein said action list window includes commands from said host processing control means to selectively mount or eject at least one of said data volumes. 13. The combination of claim 1, wherein said action list window includes commands from said host processing control means to respond to an error condition at least once of said PDSDs. 14. The combination of claim 1, wherein said action list window includes commands from said host processing control means to clean at least one of said PDSDs. 15. The combination of claim 1, wherein said graphical user interaction fields on said screen include a plurality of selections for allowing an operator to define categories of volsers based on criteria determined by an operator. 16. The combination of claim 1, wherein said graphical user interaction fields on said screen include a plurality of selections for allowing an operator to create a cleaning schedule for said PDSDs. 17. The combination of claim 1, wherein said graphical user interaction fields on said screen include at least one selection allowing an operator to check a status of at least one of said PDSDs. 18. The combination of claim 1, wherein said host interface logic means is an Application Program Interface (API). 19. The combination of claim 1, said fields also including a predefined confirmation field for said operator to confirm performance of library tasks presented in the action list. 20. A method for communicating host processor commands to a human operator and for allowing said human operator to communicate with said host processor and at least one peripheral data storage device (PDSD) in a manually operated data storage library, said library including a plurality of data storage bins, each data storage bin capable of storing one data storage medium therein, each data storage medium including at least one data volume, said library further including one or more peripheral data storage devices (PDSDs), each PDSD capable of having a data volume mounted therein, said library also including a library controller apparatus, said method comprising the steps of: maintaining a library management database containing storage data indicative of respective locations of said data storage media in said manually operated data storage library; receiving host processor communication data through host interface logic in said library controller; presenting said host processor communication data to an operator in a form of graphical user interaction fields presented on a display screen by graphical user interface means, said fields including an action list window visually presenting library tasks for performance of a human operator, each said library task being selected from a group of tasks comprising exchanging one of said data storage media between a respective data storage bin and a selected PDSD; receiving operator communication data confirming performance of said library task by said operator, said operator communication data being entered from operator input means through said graphical interface means; presenting said operator communication data to said host processor through said host interface logic; and updating said library management database to reflect any changes in said storage data resulting from performance of said task by said operator. 21. The method of claim 20 including the step of storing said host processor communication data and said operator communication on a read/write storage device connected as part of said library controller. 22. The method of claim 21, including the steps of sending data to an external device through external interface logic in said library controller, and receiving data from said external device through said external interface logic in said library controller. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said external device is an optical scanner, such that data received by said external device interface logic means from said scanner is transmitted to said library controller apparatus for communication to said read/write storage device. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein said external device is a large message display panel for displaying said data sent to said external device through said external device interface logic and for displaying said data stored on said read/write storage device. 25. The method of claim 22, wherein said external device interface logic is an Application Program Interface (API). 26. The method of claim 21, wherein said graphical user interaction fields on said screen include a plurality of selections for allowing an operator to store data on said read/write storage device, wherein said data contains volsers of volumes to be added to said library. 27. The method of claim 20, wherein at least one of said PDSDs is a tape drive. 28. The method of claim 20, wherein at least one of said PDSDs is a disk drive. 29. The method of claim 20, wherein said operator input means is a mouse. 30. The method of claim 20, wherein said operator input means is a keyboard. 31. The method of claim 20, wherein said group of library tasks commands from said host processor to selectively mount or eject one or more of said data volumes. 32. The method of claim 20, wherein said group of library tasks includes commands from said host processor to respond to an error condition at least one of said PDSDs. 33. The method of claim 20, wherein said group of library tasks includes commands from said host processor to clean at least one of said PDSDs. 34. The method of claim 20, wherein said graphical user interaction fields on said screen include a plurality of selections for allowing an operator to define categories of volsers based on criteria determined by an operator. 35. The method of claim 20, wherein said graphical user interaction fields on said screen include at least one selection allowing an operator to create a cleaning schedule for said PDSDs. 36. The method of claim 20, wherein said graphical user interaction fields on said screen include at least one selection allowing an operator to check a status of at least one of said PDSDs. 37. The method of claim 20, wherein said host interface logic is an Application Program Interface (API). 38. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of presenting a predefined confirmation field on said display screen for said operator to confirm performance of library tasks presented in the action list. 39. A librarian workstation apparatus for use in a manually operated data storage library, said library including a plurality of storage bins, each data storage bin capable of storing one data storage medium therein, each data medium including at least one data volume, said library further including one or more peripheral data storage devices (PDSDs) and a host processing control means interconnected with said PDSDs, said workstation comprising: a library manager controller including program memory, a hard disk for storing data, a data path to said host processing control means, and host interface logic means for communicating with said host processing control means; a display device having a screen and being connected to said library manager controller for alerting said operator of a task to transfer a data volume from a data storage bin to a PDSD and from a PDSD to a data storage bin; said library manager controller further including graphical user interface means for constructing graphical user interaction fields on said screen, said fields including an action list window visually presenting library tasks for performance by a human operator, each said library task being selected from a group of tasks comprising exchanging one of said data storage media between a respective data storage bin and a selected PDSD; operator input means for allowing an operator to interact with said user interaction fields; library manager program means loaded in said program memory for managing bidirectional communication between said host processing control means and an operator through said host interface logic means and said graphical user interface means in order to carry out the operator task of transferring a data volume from a data storage bin to a PDSD and from a PDSD to a data storage bin; a library management database, coupled to said library manager controller, containing storage data indicative of respective locations of said data storage media in said manually operated data storage library; and external interface logic for sending data to an external device and receiving data from said external device. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein said host interface logic means is an Application Program Interface (API). 41. The apparatus of claim 39, wherein said external device interface logic is an Application Program Interface (API). 42. The apparatus of claim 39, said fields also including a predefined confirmation field for said operator to confirm performance of library tasks presented in the action list. 