A processor for processing integrated circuit wafers, semiconductor substrates, data disks and similar units requiring very low contamination levels. The processor has an interface section which receives wafers in standard wafer carriers. The interface section transfers the wafers from carriers onto novel trays for improved processing. The interface unit can hold multiple groups of multiple trays. A conveyor having an automated arm assembly moves wafers supported on a tray. The conveyor moves the trays from the interface along a track to several processing stations. The processing stations are accessed from an enclosed area adjoining the interface section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor wafers and the semiconductor articles, comprising: an enclosure for providing a substantially enclosed work space; an interface port in said enclosure through which wafers are moved relative to said work space; a docking station which is controllable to open and close the interface port, said docking station having features for receiving an enclosed sealable wafer container and providing access to a wafer carrier held therein; a wafer transfer for transferring a plurality of wafers from the wafer carrier for processing of the wafers without the wafer carrier within the enclosed workspace wherein the wafer transfer is constructed to transfer the plurality of wafers from the wafer carrier to at least one wafer tray; a plurality of processing stations; said processing stations having access openings which open to the work space to allow installation and removal of wafers relative to said processing stations; a conveyor for conveying wafers to and from said plurality of processing stations; a movable first carriage mounted within the enclosure; said first carriage having a transfer opening through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier; a movable second carriage; said second carriage having a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers; and a transfer elevator for moving the wafer tray through the transfer opening and wafer carrier to transfer wafers onto the wafer tray. 2. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1, wherein said first carriage further comprises an empty tray pass-through opening through which an empty wafer tray is lowered by said elevator. 3. A semiconductor processor according to claim 1, further comprising: a transfer opening through said first carriage and through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier; an empty tray pass-through opening in said first carriage through which an empty wafer tray is lowered by said elevator; and empty wafer tray storage for holding empty wafer trays. 4. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor wafers and other semiconductor articles, comprising: an enclosure for providing a substantially enclosed work space; an interface port in said enclosure through which wafers are moved relative to said work space; a docking station which is controllable to open and close the interface port, said docking station having features for receiving an enclosed wafer container and providing access to a wafer carrier held therein; a docking station relay for moving said wafer carrier from said docking station into said work space and providing access to a plurality of wafers within said wafer carrier; a wafer transfer for transferring wafers from said wafer carrier to a wafer tray; a movable first carriage mounted within the enclosure; said first carriage having a transfer opening through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier; a movable second carriage; said second carriage having a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers; and a transfer elevator for moving the wafer tray through the transfer opening and wafer carrier to transfer wafers onto the wafer tray. 5. A semiconductor processor according to claim 4, wherein the first carriage further comprises an empty tray pass-through opening through which an empty wafer tray is lowered by said elevator. 6. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor wafers and other semiconductor articles, comprising: an enclosure for providing a substantially enclosed work space; an interface port in said enclosure through which wafers are moved relative to said work space; a docking station which is controllable to open and close the interface port, said docking station having features for receiving an enclosed wafer container and providing access to a wafer carrier held therein; a docking station relay for moving said wafer carrier from said docking station into said work space and providing access to a plurality of wafers within said wafer carrier; a wafer transfer for transferring wafers from said wafer carrier to a wafer tray; a plurality of processing stations; said processing stations having access openings which open to the work space to allow installation and removal of wafers relative to said processing stations; a conveyor for conveying wafers to and from said plurality of processing stations; a movable first carriage mounted within the enclosure said first carriage having a transfer opening through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier; a movable second carriage; said second carriage having a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers; and a transfer elevator for moving the wafer tray through the transfer opening and wafer carrier to transfer wafers onto the wafer tray. 7. A semiconductor processor according to claim 6, wherein said first carriage further comprises an empty tray pass-through opening through which an empty wafer tray is lowered by said elevator. 8. A semiconductor processor according to claim 6, further comprising; an empty tray pass-through opening in said first carriage through which an empty wafer tray is lowered by said elevator; and empty wafer tray storage for holding empty wafer trays. 9. A semiconductor processor for processing semiconductor wafers and other semiconductor articles, comprising: an enclosure for providing a substantially enclosed work space; an interface port in said enclosure through which wafers are moved relative to said work space; a docking station which is controllable to open and close the interface port, said docking station having features for receiving an enclosed wafer container and providing access to a wafer carrier held therein; a wafer transfer for transferring a plurality of wafers from the wafer carrier for processing without the wafer carrier; a movable first carriage mounted within the enclosure; said first carriage having a transfer opening through which a wafer tray is elevated to remove wafers from the wafer carrier; a movable second carriage; said second carriage having a loaded tray holding station for holding wafer trays which are loaded with wafers; and a transfer elevator for moving the wafer tray through the transfer opening and wafer carrier to transfer wafers onto the wafer tray. 10. A semiconductor processor according to claim 9, wherein said first carriage further comprises an empty tray pass-through opening through which an empty wafer tray is lowered by said elevator. 