An improved apparatus and method which offers an integral pre-strip rinse operation between etching operation and stripping operation. The present invention is designed to allow a semiconductor wafer to undergo sequential processing of dry etching, wet pre-strip rinsing, dry photoresist stripping, and wet final rinsing in a single system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method adapted for treating a semiconductor wafer in an integrated wafer processing apparatus which comprises: (a) a central vacuum chamber; (b) an etch module connected to said central vacuum chamber; (c) a strip module connected to said central vacuum chamber; (d) a rinse module, accessible to said strip module and not accessible to said central vacuum chamber; (e) a first transfer device that can transfer the semiconductor wafer between said rinse module and said strip module; and (f) a second transfer device located in said central vacuum chamber that can transport the semiconductor wafer among said central vacuum chamber, said etch module, and said strip module; the method comprising the steps of: (g) removing a material on said semiconductor wafer in said etch module of said apparatus; (h) transferring the semiconductor wafer with said first and second transfer devices from said etch module through said central vacuum chamber and through said strip module to said rinse module; (i) rinsing said semiconductor wafer in the rinse module of said apparatus subsequent to said removing step in the etch module; (j) transferring the semiconductor wafer back in said strip module; and (k) removing a mask material on the semiconductor wafer in said strip module of said apparatus; and (l) transferring the semiconductor wafer back to the rinse module; and (m) rinsing the semiconductor wafer in said rinse module subsequent to said mask removal step. 2. The method for treating a semiconductor wafer of claim 1 wherein said material removal step, said rinsing step, and said mask removal step are automated by a user-programmable computing means. 3. The method for treating the semiconductor wafer of claim 1 wherein said step of transferring said wafer between said rinse module and said strip module operates at atmospheric pressure. 4. The method for treating the semiconductor wafer of claim 1 wherein said rinse step uses various solutions. 5. The method for treating the semiconductor wafer of claim 1 wherein said rinse step also accomplishes the step of drying said semiconductor wafer. 6. The method for treating the semiconductor wafer of claim 1 wherein said rinsing steps, said transferring steps, and said removing step are automated by a user-programmable computing means. 7. A method adapted for treating a semiconductor wafer in an integrated wafer etch processing apparatus comprising the steps of: (a) etching the semiconductor wafer in an etch module; (b) transporting the wafer through a strip module, without performing a strip step to strip photoresist material from the wafer, to a rinse module and rinsing said semiconductor wafer prior to a photoresist layer removal step in the rinse module, wherein said rinse module is not accessible to said etch module; and (c) transporting the wafer back to the strip module and removing a photoresist layer on the semiconductor wafer in the strip module; and wherein said integrated wafer etch processing apparatus includes the etch module, the strip module and the rinse module integrated together. 8. The method for treating semiconductor wafer of claim 7 further comprising a step of: (d) transporting the wafer back to the rinse module and rinsing said semiconductor wafer subsequent to said photoresist removing step in the strip module. 9. The method of claim 8 for treating a semiconductor wafer in the integrated wafer etch processing apparatus comprises the steps of: dry etching the wafer in the etch module at step (a); wet pre-strip rinsing the wafer in the rinse module at step (b); dry photoresist stripping the wafer in the strip module at step (c); and wet final rinsing the wafer in the rinse module at step (d). 10. The method of claim 8 wherein: said etch step (a) is performed in a vacuum; and said rinse steps (b) and (d) are performed at about atmospheric pressure. 11. A semiconductor processing system that is adapted to process a semiconductor wafer comprising: (a) a central vacuum chamber; (b) a vacuum load lock chamber, having at least one closable opening, connected to said central vacuum chamber; (c) an etch module, including a reaction chamber and at least one closable opening, connected to said central vacuum chamber; (d) a strip module, including a reaction chamber and at least one closable opening, connected to said central vacuum chamber; (e) a rinse module, accessible to said strip module and not accessible to said central vacuum chamber; (f) a first transfer device that can transfer the semiconductor wafer between said rinse module and said strip module; (g) a second transfer device located in said central vacuum chamber that can transport the semiconductor wafer into and out of said central vacuum chamber and into and out of each of said load lock chamber, said etch module, and said strip module; and (h) said central vacuum chamber, said etch module, said strip module, said rinse module and said first and second transfer devices are integrated into said semiconductor system such that for semiconductor wafer to be transferred from said etch module to said rinse module, said second transfer device transfers the semiconductor wafer from said etch module through said central vacuum chamber to said strip module, and said first transfer device transfers the semiconductor wafer from said strip module to said rinse module. 12. The semiconductor processing system of claim 11 wherein said first transfer device operates at atmospheric pressure. 13. The semiconductor processing system of claim 11 wherein said strip module further comprising a resistively heated wafer chuck. 14. The semiconductor processing system of claim 11 wherein said rinse module comprises a liquid sprayer. 15. The semiconductor processing system of claim 11 wherein said rinse module comprises a dryer that can dry a semiconductor wafer. 16. A semiconductor etch processing system adapted for handling a semiconductor wafer comprising: (a) a vacuum chamber; (b) an etch module selectively communicable with said vacuum chamber; (c) a strip module selectively communicable with said vacuum chamber; and (d) a rinse module, accessible to said strip module and not accessible to the vacuum chamber (e) a first transfer device that can transfer the wafer from the etch module through the vacuum chamber to the strip module: (f) a second transfer device that can sequentially transfer the wafer (1) through and from the strip module to the rinse module so that the wafer can be rinsed, and (2) from the rinse module back to the strip module so that a photoresist layer can be removed from the wafer, and without transferring the wafer through the vacuum chamber: and (g) said vacuum chamber, said etch module, said strip module, said rinse module and said first and second transfer devices all integrated into said processing system. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein: said second transfer device can further sequentially transfer the wafer from the strip module after a photoresist layer has been removed to the rinse module where the wafer can again be rinsed, and without transferring the wafer through the vacuum chamber. 