A method is provided for assembling objects using programmable robots. The robots are each operable with three or more degrees of freedom and the method includes grasping a first object with at least one of the robots, grasping a second object with at least one other robot, robotically placing the first object in a correct location with respect to the second object, and assembling the first and second objects. The objects can also be positioned in fixtures and the correct location of one object with respect to the other can be determined with respect to the fixture. The positions of both of the robots can be determined and suitable control commands provided to these robots to affect the assembling of the objects.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for assembling of objects comprising the steps of: providing at least two programmable robots, each operable in three or more degrees of freedom, grasping a first object with at least one first robot, grasping a second object with at least one second robot, robotically placing said first object in a correct location with respect to said second object, and assembling said first and second objects. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein a position of at least one of said first and second robots is determined. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein a position of said first and second robots is determined, and suitable control commands provided to said robots to affect said assembling of said first and second objects. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein a position of at least one of said first and second objects is determined and suitable control commands provided to said robots to affect said assembling of said first and second objects. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein a position of said first robot with respect to said second robot is determined and suitable control commands provided to said robots to affect said assembling of said first and second objects. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein a third robot programmably joins said objects. 7. A method for assembling objects comprising the steps of: providing first and second programmable robots, each operable in three or more degrees of freedom, grasping a first object with at least said first robot, fixing a second object, placing said first object in a correct location with respect to said second object, and joining said first and second objects using at least said second robot. 8. A method according to claim 7 wherein the second object is located by a fixture wherein the position of at least one of said objects is determined with respect to said fixture. 9. A method according to claim 7 wherein a position of at least one of said robots is determined. 10. A method according to claim 7 wherein a position of both robots of said first and second robots is determined, and suitable control commands provided to said robots to affect said joining of said first and second objects. 11. A method according to claim 7 wherein a position of at least one of said first and second objects is determined, and suitable control commands provided to said robots to affect said joining of said first and second objects. 12. A method according to claim 7 wherein a position of said first robot with respect to said second robot is determined and suitable control commands provided to said robots to affect said joining of said first and second objects. 13. A method for assembly of objects comprising the steps of: providing a fixture for positioning a first object, providing at least one programmable robot, each operable in three or more degrees of freedom, positioning said first object in said fixture, grasping a second object with said robot, placing said second object in a correct location with respect to said first object, and assembling said first and second objects. 14. A method according to claim 13 wherein a position of at least one of said objects is determined with respect to said fixture. 15. A method according to claim 13 wherein a position of said at least one robot is determined. 16. A method according to claim 13 wherein two programmable robots are provided, a position of both robots of said two robots is determined, and suitable control commands provided to said robots to affect said assembling of said first and second objects. 17. A method according to claim 13 wherein a position of at least one of said first and second objects is determined and suitable control commands provided to said at least one robot to affect said assembling of said first and second objects. 18. A method according to claim 13 wherein a position of said first robot with respect to said second robot is determined and suitable control commands provided to said two robots to affect said assembling of said first and second objects. 