An interactive multi-station medical specimen analysis system for simultaneously analyzing a medical specimen at remote locations and accessing, for evaluation, the results of each of the analyses at a central laboratory is disclosed. The system comprises a server for storing databases. A central laboratory, interacts with the dedicated computers through the server to review, evaluate and either accept or reject specimen analyses. Communication means connect the server with the plurality of dedicated computers, laboratory computer and a centralized mainframe. Analytical instrument to dedicated computer interface software interprets the instrument language into the computer program language and the computer program language into the instrument language. Dedicated computer interactive means request analytical tests, transmit the test results to the server databases and receive and display data from the server databases. Laboratory computer interactive means acquire and display test results from the server databases, review and accept or reject the test results and transmit the acceptance or rejection to the server databases.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of interactively analyzing sample specimens and exchanging the analysis results between a plurality of user initiated remote analytical instruments having dedicated computers and a central laboratory to permit an operator at the laboratory to view and accept or reject the analysis results, said method comprising: initiating analysis of said specimen at said dedicated computer by said user, analyzing said specimen, observing the said analysis results at said central laboratory by said operator, accepting or rejecting said analysis results by said operator, observing said acceptance or rejection at said dedicated computer by said user. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein initiating said analysis comprises the steps of: a. checking the system hardware for the existence of monitor equipment, b. establishing database file access and reading the database for Patient sample number, c. establishing serial connection with the analytical equipment, d. initializing analyzer to standby mode e. aborting the remaining sequence if any of steps (a)-(d) fail, f. requesting user ID, g. verifying ID codes for correctness, and remaining at (g) until correct codes entered, h. displaying Mode Selection based upon the user's ID codes, engineer or medical technologist codes initiating step (ii), user codes proceeding to (i), i. displaying the analyze/review screen, an entry of Analysis proceeds to (j) and entry of review proceeds to (aa). j. checking the analyzer to confirm that the instrument is ready for analysis and activating an alarm if not ready, k. displaying analysis screen, enabling relevant commands, l. displaying a list of valid units from the database, m. selecting the desired unit proceeds to (n), selecting the ID option proceeds to (y). n. searching the patient roster database, for patients in the given unit, o. displaying the "Select Patient" screen and enabling relevant commands, p. displaying a list of valid patients for the selected unit, q. selecting the desired patient thereby causing the patient demographics to be displayed with relevant commands enabled, r. displaying the selected patient, ID number and location, and waiting for the user to select the desired demographics, s. prompting the user to place valid sample in the docking port, t. proceeding with sample aspiration and upon completion alerting the user to remove the sample, u. assigning and storing a sample ID number, v. analyzing the sample in the analytical instrument and querying the instrument for results and errors, w. storing the results, patient demographics, and instrument errors in a results database, x. choosing to search by patient ID displays the Search by ID screen and enables relevant commands, y. entering the Patient ID and commencing with step m, z. returning to initialization, aa. displaying the "review results" screen and enabling relevant commands, bb. displaying valid units in a database, cc. selecting the desired unit and searching the patient roster database for patients in the given unit, dd. displaying the "Select Patient" screen and enabling relevant commands, ee. displaying a list of valid patients for the selected unit and selecting the desired patient, ff. displaying the patient results screen and enabling relevant commands, gg. displaying patient results and demographics giving analysis results, pending or failed, hh. clearing system and returning to initialization, system waits for user input, ii. displaying instrument maintenance screen with relevant commands jj. waiting for and responding to Operator input. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein observing and accepting or rejecting said analysis results at said central laboratory comprises the steps of: a. checking for existence of monitoring equipment, b. establishing access to the database, c. aborting the system if 1 or 2 above do not meet the predetermined standards, d. periodically checking the server to determine if unprocessed analysis results have been received from the analytical instrument, e. recognizing and retrieving an unprocessed test result, f. displaying the units where the sample originated and activating an alarm to alert an Operator, g. deactivating the alarm upon Operator's input and the commencement of program activation, h. displaying the test results on the monitor in the programmed format, i. requesting and verifying Operator's ID codes, j. remaining idle until an indication of acceptance or rejection is received, k. returning the accepted results to the appropriate database within the server, thereby making them available to the user upon request, l. transmitting the accepted test results to a main computer database for storage, m. returning rejected test results to the server and saving until manual or global deletion. n. resetting the system, returning to step (d). 