To provide a compact parts feeding apparatus capable of reducing the parts stock in the line, and facilitate between different kinds of devices, a first transfer unit 200A of a transferring and positioning arrangement 200C of a parts feeding apparatus 200, transfers a tray T carrying parts PB upward in a first direction Z1 from conveyor arrangement 14. A positioning unit 200D the tray T carrying the parts PB in a determined position within the assembling range of a assembling body 10 from the first transfer unit 200A. A second transfer unit 200B descends in a second direction Z2 opposite to the first direction, to transfer the positioned tray T to the first transfer unit 200a or to discharge the tray T after it has been emptied of parts onto the conveyor arrangement 14.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A parts feeding apparatus for feeding parts which are disposed on a plurality of trays, to an assembling body for assembly, comprising: conveyor means for conveying the plurality of trays to and from the assembling body; and transferring and positioning means for individually transferring and positioning each of the plurality of trays, which are conveyed by said conveyor means, in a predetermined position within said assembling body, in which each of the parts can be selected from a tray positioned in the predetermined position and assembled by robot means included in the assembly body; wherein said transferring and positioning means includes: a first transfer unit for individually transferring each of the plurality of trays upward in a first direction from said conveyor means; a positioning unit for positioning each tray from said first transfer unit in the predetermined position which is within an assembling range of the robot means included in the assembling body; and a second transfer unit for selectively transferring each tray which has been positioned in the predetermined position, downward from the predetermined position in a second direction reversed from said first direction, and for delivering the tray to said first transfer unit when the tray still contains parts, and for delivering the tray to said conveyor means when the tray is empty. 2. A parts feeding apparatus for feeding parts for a work, on a tray to an assembling body for assembling the parts, comprising: conveyor means for conveying said parts carrying tray to and from said assembling body, and transferring and positioning means for transferring and positioning a plurality of said trays, which are conveyed by said conveyor means to said assembling body, wherein said transferring and positioning means includes: a first transfer unit for transferring said parts carrying tray upward in a first direction from said conveyor means; a positioning unit for positioning said parts carrying tray from said first transfer unit in a determined position within an assembling range of said assembling body; and a second transfer unit for transferring said parts carrying tray positioned in said determined position, downward in a second direction reversed from said first direction, to said first transfer unit or for discharging said tray emptied of said parts to said conveyor means; wherein said conveyor means includes: an introducing conveyor arranged for feeding said first transfer unit with said parts carrying tray; and a discharging conveyor for discharging said tray emptied of said parts from said second transfer unit; and wherein said first transfer unit of said transferring and positioning means includes: a lifter for taking said parts carrying tray from said introducing conveyor; a separator for releasably holding said parts carrying tray separately of said lifter; a tray setter for setting said parts carrying tray in a predetermined position; and an elevator hanger for transferring said parts carrying tray from said separator to said tray setter. 3. A parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein said first direction is vertically upward whereas said second direction is vertically downward. 4. A parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein said first transfer unit, said second transfer unit and said positioning unit are arranged in said assembling body. 5. A parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein said introducing conveyor and said discharging conveyor are arranged one over the other, and wherein the direction for said introducing conveyor to introduce said tray and the direction for said discharging conveyor to discharge said tray are made to intersect the moving directions of said tray including said first direction and said second direction in said transferring and positioning means. 6. A parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein said second transfer unit of said transferring and positioning means includes: a separator to which is transferred said parts carrying tray by said positioning unit from the tray setter of said first transfer unit; a return elevator for transferring said parts carrying tray from said separator to said lifter of said first transfer unit or for discharging the tray emptied of said parts to said discharging conveyor of said conveyor means; and an elevator hanger for transferring said tray from said separator to said return elevator. 7. A parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein said separator, said tray setter and said elevator hanger of said first transfer unit can be opened or closed to removably mount said parts carrying tray. 8. A parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 6, wherein said separator and said elevator hanger of said second transfer unit can be opened or closed to removably mount said parts carrying tray. 9. A parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 2, wherein said assembling body is a robot for assembling the parts in said tray into said work. 10. A parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 9, wherein said assembling body is equipped with a turret head for assembling the parts in said tray into said work. 11. A parts feeding apparatus as set forth in claim 2, further comprising pallet transfer means for transferring a pallet carrying said work to said assembling body. 12. A part feeding apparatus for feeding parts which are disposed on a plurality of trays, to an assembly robot, comprising: conveyor means for continuously conveying said plurality of trays along a conveyor line in a first direction toward the assembly robot when the trays contain parts, and in a second direction away from the assembly robot when the trays are empty; and a transferring and positioning arrangement for transferring and positioning each of the plurality of said trays, which are conveyed by said conveyor means, to the assembly robot, and locating each tray in a position wherein the parts disposed thereon can be taken by the assembly robot, said transferring and positioning arrangement including: first transfer means for sequentially transferring the trays upward from said conveyor means; positioning means for positioning each of the trays which has been transferred by said first transfer unit, in a predetermined position within reach of the assembly robot; and second transfer means for selectively transferring each tray, after it has been positioned in said predetermined position, downward from the predetermined position to said first transfer means when the tray still contains parts and to said conveyor means when the tray is empty. 