A robot for performing endoscopic procedures in flexible and curved human or animal lumens. A plurality of segments are attached to each other. Traction segments embrace the lumen walls. Other segments include actuators that cause the endoscope to locally deform its shape via bending, extending, or some combination of bending and extension. A method is provided to sequence the action of the segments to cause inchworm-like or snake-like locomotion, or a combination of them through a curved and flexible lumen. The method of movement can be adapted to the lumen characteristics, or to obviate a component failure. A compressed gas line attached to the back segment provides compressed gas for insufflation of the lumen, and can optionally be used to drive the actuators that control the operation of the endoscope segments. The lead segment may include television cameras, ultrasound transducers, biopsy arms, drug delivery systems, or other sensors, diagnostic aids, therapeutic devices, and surgical tools. Medical instruments and sensors can also be placed in the rear or middle segments.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A robotic endoscope comprising: a first traction module; an extensor module attached to the first traction module; a second traction module attached to the extensor module; each of the first and second traction modules including a central module body, and a cylindrical shell having a traction surface, with the cylindrical shell displaceable from the central module body; the first and second traction modules having means for moving the cylindrical shell outwardly from the central body module; and the extensor module having means for increasing and decreasing its length. 2. The robotic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the means for moving a traction surface comprises a hydraulic or pneumatic actuator. 3. The robotic endoscope of claim 2 wherein the pneumatic or hydraulic actuators are controlled by valves in the traction modules. 4. The robotic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the means for moving a traction surface comprises internal balloons inflatable pneumatically or hydraulically. 5. The robotic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the means for moving the traction surfaces comprises an electromagnetic actuator. 6. The robotic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the means for moving the traction surface comprises shape memory alloy actuators. 7. The robotic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the means for moving a fraction surface comprises a magnetostrictive material actuator. 8. The robotic endoscope of claim 1 wherein the means for moving the traction surface comprises piezoelectric material actuators. 9. The robotic endoscope of claim 1 further comprising and outer sheath overlying the traction and extensor modules, including the cylindrical shells. 10. The robotic endoscope of claim 1 further comprising a force sensor on a traction module for measuring forces applied to lumen walls. 11. A robotic endoscope comprising: a first traction module; an extensor module attached to the first traction module, within a plurality of inflatable balloons circumferentially arranged with the extensor module; a second traction module attached to the extensor module; a traction surface on the outside of each of the traction modules; and means for moving the traction surface outwardly from the traction modules to engage a lumen around the traction modules. 12. The robotic endoscope of claim 11 further comprising internal pressure sensors on the traction modules for measuring outward movement of the traction surface. 13. A robotic endoscope comprising: a first traction module; an extensor module attached to the first traction module and having means for increasing and decreasing its length; a second traction module attached to the extensor module; the first and second traction modules each having at least two oar-like protuberances pivotably attached thereto; each oar-like protuberance having a traction surface for engaging a lumen; means for pivoting the oar-like protuberances. 14. An endoscope comprising: a plurality of modules linked together, with at least one of the modules including: a central core; a multiplicity of inflatable sacs circumferentially located around the central core; and a balloon overlying the central core and inflatable sacs. 15. The endoscope of claim 14 wherein the balloon is toroidal. 16. The endoscope of claim 14 further comprising valves for inflating and deflating the sacs and the balloon. 17. A robotic endoscope comprising: a first traction module; an extensor module attached to the first traction module; a second traction module attached to the extensor module; traction surfaces on the first and second traction modules; the traction modules having means for moving their traction surfaces outwardly to engage a lumen around the module; the extensor module including a bellows forming the outside surface of the extensor module, and forming a central chamber and a spring within the bellows extending laterally entirely across the central chamber. 18. The robotic endoscope of claim 17 further comprising servo valves for controlling fluid to the bellows. 19. The robotic endoscope of claim 17 further comprising a computer for controlling locomotion of the robotic endoscope, located within one of the modules. 20. An endoscope comprising: a plurality of modules linked together, with at least one of the modules including: a module body; a balloon around the outside of the module body; a high pressure valve in the module body, positioned between a high pressure source line extending through the module body, and the balloon; and a low pressure valve in the module body, positioned between a low pressure source line extending through the module body, and the balloon. 21. The endoscope of claim 20 further comprising a tactile sensor on an outer surface of the balloon. 22. The endoscope of claim 21 further comprising an internal pressure sensor on the module body and within the balloon. 23. The robotic endoscope of claim 20 further comprising an outer sheath substantially continuously overlying the traction and extensor modules. 24. An endoscope comprising: first and second traction modules; an extensor module attached to the first and second traction module, the extensor module having means for increasing and decreasing its length; and bow wires on the traction modules, the bow wires displaceable from a relaxed position generally alongside the traction module, to an extended position wherein the bow wires are bowed out in arc. 25. A robotic endoscope comprising: a first traction module having a traction surface; an extensor module attached to the first module and having means for increasing and decreasing its length; a second traction module having a traction surface and attached to the extensor module; the traction modules having means for moving their traction surfaces outwardly to engage a lumen; and an outer sheath substantially continuously overlying and covering the traction modules and the extensor module. 