A system for cleaning storage tanks is disclosed having a remotely controlled collapsibile tracked robotic tank entry vehicle, a closed circuit television system for observation including controllable light sources and an articulatible nozzle, also remotely controllable. The nozzle is capable of rotation fully 360 degrees in each of two planes perpendicular to each other under hydraulic control fully independent of its source of cleaning fluid for delivery to the tank.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for cleaning large storage tanks having a relatively small access opening therein, comprising: an artculatable nozzle means capable of insertion into a tank and sized to enter through a relatively small access opening therein, said nozzle means being hydraulically operable by a remotely located controllable supply of hydraulic fluid and being attachable to an umbilical tube for protecting operating cables and hoses upon entry into a tank, said umbilical tube having a sufficient length to place said articulatable nozzle means near the center of said tank for spraying a cleaning fluid, supplied from a separate pressurized supply of tank cleaning fluid, against the interior walls and floor of said tank, said nozzle means being capable of rotation of 360 degrees in each of two planes perpendicular to each other. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said articulatable nozzle is remotely hydraulically controllable to point in any desired direction. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said articulatable nozzle further comprises two hydraulic motors and gearing means for separately driving said nozzle in each of said two planes perpendicular to each other independently. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said two hydraulic motors are connected in series to a hydraulic fluid supply to rotate at the same speed. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein one of said motors is independently connected to a second hydraulic fluid supply to cause a differential in speed of rotation of said motors, said differential being usable to control the position of said nozzle in one of said mutually perpendicular planes of rotation. 6. The system of claim 4 wherein said two hydraulic motors are operated deliberately at different speeds thereby providing complete 360.degree. coverage in each of said two planes perpendicular to each other by said articulatable nozzle. 