Glass substrates suitable for thin film processing can be batch heated to processing temperatures and batch cooled after processing by radiant heating and cooling in a vacuum chamber. The heating and/or cooling chamber is fitted with a cassette including heat conductive shelves that can be heated or cooled, interleaved by the glass substrates mounted on supports so that a gap exists between the shelves and the substrates. As the shelves provide heating or cooling, the glass substrates are radiantly heated or cooled by the shelves, thereby providing uniform heating or cooling of the glass substrates so as to avoid damage or warpage of the substrates. A vacuum system for processing the substrates includes batch-type heating and cooling of the substrates using the chambers of the invention in combination with one-at-a-time film processing chambers that can deposit one or more thin films on the substrates.
Claims We claim: 1. A vacuum system including at least one vacuum chamber selected from the group consisting of a heating chamber and a cooling chamber for glass substrates to be processed, said chamber including a) means to provide a vacuum to said chamber, b) a heating or cooling means incorporated into the interior sidewalls of a cassette in said chamber for changing the temperature of the interior sidewalls of said cassette in said chamber, c) a plurality of thermally conductive shelves contacting said sidewalls so that heat is conducted to and from said conductive shelves from said sidewalls, d) dielectric supports for said glass substrates mounted on said conductive shelves so as to provide a gap between said substrates and said shelves, thereby avoiding direct contact of the glass substrates to said shelves, to preclude direct heat transfer from said shelves to said substrates, said means of heating and cooling able to heat the glass substrates to a temperature of about 350.degree.-400.degree. C. and to cool the glass substrate to ambient temperatures from a temperature of about 300.degree.-400.degree. C. at a rate so as to avoid thermal stress in said glass substrates. 2. A vacuum system according to claim 1 wherein said cassette is fitted for heating by means of resistance heating coils in said sidewalls connected to a source of power. 3. A vacuum system according to claim 1 wherein said cassette is fitted for cooling by means of channels for circulating a coolant in said sidewalls. 4. A vacuum system according to claim 1 wherein said cassette is fitted both for heating by means of resistance heating coils in said sidewalls connected to a source of power and for cooling by means of channels for circulating a coolant in said sidewalls. 5. A vacuum system according to claim 1 wherein an elevator mechanism-raises or lowers said cassette so that a robot can access more than one glass substrate in the chamber sequentially. 6. A vacuum system according to claim 1 wherein separate heating and cooling chambers are provided. 7. A vacuum system according to claim 1 wherein a cooling chamber doubles as a load lock chamber to transfer a plurality of glass substrates into said vacuum system. 8. A vacuum chamber for heating or cooling glass substrates in a controllable and uniform manner, comprising: a) means to provide a vacuum to said vacuum chamber, b) a means of heating or cooling the interior sidewalls of a cassette in said vacuum chamber, said means incorporated into the interior sidewalls of the cassette, to heat the glass substrates to a temperature of about 350.degree.-400.degree. C. or to cool the glass substrates to ambient temperatures from a temperature of about 350.degree.-400.degree. C. at a rate so as to avoid thermal stress in said glass substrates, c) a plurality of heat conductive shelves contacting said sidewalls so as to conduct heat to or from said glass substrates by radiant heating or cooling; and d) dielectric supports mounted on said shelves for said glass substrates that provide a gap between said substrates and said shelves minimizing direct thermal contact between said shelves and said glass substrates, to preclude direct heat transfer from said shelves to said substrate. 9. A vacuum chamber according to claim 8 wherein said cassette is fitted for heating by means of resistance heating coils in said sidewalls connected to a source of power. 10. A vacuum chamber according to claim 8 wherein said cassette is fitted for cooling by means of channels for circulating a coolant in said sidewalls. 11. A vacuum chamber according to claim 8 wherein said cassette is fitted both for heating by means of resistance heating coils in said sidewalls connected to a source of power and for cooling by means of channels for circulating a coolant in said sidewalls. 12. A vacuum chamber according to claim 8 further mounted on an elevator that can raise or lower said cassette by the width of one conductive shelf sequentially. 