A robotic mechanism includes a horizontal base, a vertical support mounted on the base, and a horizontal arm mounted on the vertical support. The vertical support is movable horizontally relative to the base. The arm includes a body which is movable horizontally relative to the vertical support and carries a member which is movable horizontally relative to the body. When the body moves horizontally relative to the vertical support, the member moves horizontally relative to the body to increase the effective rate of movement of the arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic mechanism, comprising: a support; and an arm mounted to said support and movable relative thereto in a rectilinear direction, said arm comprising: a first member;; a body mounted by said first member to said support and movable relative thereto in said rectilinear direction, a second member mounted to said body for movement relative thereto in said rectilinear direction, and a motor-activated drive mechanism connected to said body and said second member, for moving said body relative to said support in said rectilinear direction, and simultaneously moving said second member relative to said body in said rectilinear direction, to increase an effective speed of movement of said arm; said body including two cavities separated by a partition wall, said drive mechanism comprising a motor mounted in said partition wall, a pair of rotary elements mounted to said body in respective ones of said cavities and driven at a common speed by said motor, one of said rotary elements interconnecting said body and said first member for moving said body relative to said first member in said rectilinear direction, and the other of said rotary elements interconnecting said body and said second member for moving said second member relative to said body in said rectilinear direction. 2. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 wherein said member comprises a second member, said arm further including a first member attaching said body to said support, said body being movable relative to said first member in said direction, said drive mechanism comprising a pulley structure mounted for rotation on said body and driven by said motor, said pulley structure being fixedly connected to said first and second members. 3. The robotic mechanism according to claim 2 wherein said pulley structure further comprises first and second pulleys interconnected for common rotation and fixed to said first and second members, respectively. 4. The robotic mechanism according to claim 3 wherein said first member mounts said body to said support and is movable to adjusted positions along said support. 5. The robotic mechanism according to claim 1 wherein said rectilinear direction constitutes a first rectilinear direction, said arm being movable relative to said support member in a second rectilinear direction disposed orthogonally to said first rectilinear direction. 6. The robotic mechanism according to claim 5 further including a base, said support member being movable relative to said support member in a third rectilinear direction disposed orthogonally to said first and second rectilinear directions. 7. The robotic mechanism according to claim 6 wherein said first and third rectilinear directions are horizontal, said second rectilinear direction being vertical. 