A modular vehicle window assembly is provided which has attached thereto interior vehicle accessories. In a preferred embodiment, the window panel assembly includes a window panel disposed within or covering a window opening formed in the vehicle. The window panel may optionally contain a conventional gasket or sealing structure to provide a weather-tight seal in the window opening. Supported on and interconnecting to the interior surface of the window panel are any one of a number of different accessory configurations, including centerline, island, and peninsular overhead consoles providing storage space, overhead lighting, and air conditioning vents for use by the occupants. Other accessories which may be used include an instrument display assembly, a control assembly, a window shade assembly, and a hand-hold assembly. The interior accessories may be interconnected to the window panel by a variety of fasteners which provide the ability to quickly interchange an interior component and/or provide sufficient tensional strength characteristics to suspend the interior accessory from the interior surface of the window panel. Also provided are a perimeter storage and concealment system for providing a finished interior and storage capability about the interior of the window opening. Preferably, the assembly is used in the roof area of the vehicle such that the accessories are supported overhead of the passenger compartment.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A vehicle window panel assembly, comprising in combination: a window panel having an inner surface and an outer surface, and of a geometric shape to fit within a window opening of a vehicle; an opaque layer on said inner surface of said window panel; a vehicle storage compartment attached to said inner surface of said window panel; and an adhesive bonding said vehicle storage compartment to said inner surface of said window panel. 2. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein said said opaque layer on said inner surface corresponds to a footprint of said vehicle storage compartment attached to said inner surface of said window panel. 3. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 2, wherein said vehicle storage compartment includes at least one selected from the group consisting of a lighting system, an instrument display system, a system control panel, a window panel shade assembly, a hand grip, and an interior trim component. 4. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 2, wherein said footprint of said vehicle storage compartment includes at least one selected from the group consisting of an island, a peninsula, a perimeter margin, and a strip traversing said inner surface of said window panel. 5. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 1, further including an attachment member bonded to said inner surface of said window panel for coupling said vehicle storage compartment to said inner surface of said window panel. 6. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 5, wherein said attachment member includes at least one selected from the group consisting of a hook-and-loop fastener, an interlocking pin fastener, a threaded fastener, a double-sided tape, a post, and a polymeric profile. 7. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 6, wherein said polymeric profile includes at least one selected from the group consisting of a molded polymeric profile and an extruded polymeric profile. 8. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 7, wherein said polymeric profile is integral with a gasket attached to said window panel for attaching said window panel in said opening of said vehicle. 9. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 1, wherein said adhesive is selected from the group consisting essentially of single-component adhesives, multi-component adhesives, chemically activated adhesives, thermally activated adhesives, moisture-curable adhesives, thermoplastic adhesives, and thermoset adhesives. 10. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 9, further including an adhesion-promoting compound between said opaque layer and said adhesive. 11. A modular overhead window panel assembly for a vehicle, comprising in combination: a window panel having inner and outer surfaces; an attachment member bonded to said inner surface of said window panel; and a storage compartment assembly attached to said inner surface of said window panel by said attachment member. 12. The modular window panel assembly as defined in claim 11, further including an adhesive between said attachment member and said window panel for bonding said attachment member to said inner surface of said window panel. 13. The modular window panel assembly as defined in claim 12, further including an opaque coating on at least a portion of said inner surface of said window panel and receiving said adhesive. 14. The modular window panel assembly as defined in claim 11, wherein said attachment member is selected from the group consisting essentially of at least one of a hook-and-loop fastener, an interlocking pin fastener, a threaded fastener, an adhesive tape, a polymeric profile, and a metal post. 15. The modular window panel assembly as defined in claim 11, wherein said storage compartment assembly includes an interior trim component. 16. The modular window panel assembly as defined in claim 15, wherein said storage compartment assembly includes at least one selected from the group consisting of a lighting assembly, an instrument display assembly, a control assembly, a window shade assembly, and a hand-hold assembly. 17. The modular window panel assembly as defined in claim 15, wherein said storage compartment assembly includes at least one selected from the group consisting of a headliner and a trim molding. 18. A window panel assembly for a vehicle, comprising in combination: an overhead window panel to close an overhead window opening of the vehicle, said window panel having interior and exterior sides terminating in a peripheral edge; an overhead interior vehicle accessory assembly attached to said interior side of said window panel, said accessory assembly having a footprint facing said interior side of said overhead window panel; an opaque area between said window panel and said accessory assembly, and said opaque area generally corresponding to said footprint of said accessory assembly; and an attachment member interconnecting said accessory assembly to said interior side of said window panel. 19. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 18, wherein said opaque area defines a perimeter. 20. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 18, wherein said opaque area defines a peninsula. 21. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 18, wherein said opaque area defines an island. 22. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 18, wherein said opaque area defines a strip. 23. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 22, wherein said strip is along a centerline of the window panel. 24. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 18, wherein said attachment member includes at least one selected from the group consisting of a polymeric bead, a hook-and-loop fastener, a post fastener, a double-sided adhesive tape, and an interlocking pin fastener. 25. An overhead vehicle window panel assembly, comprising in combination: a window panel having inner and exterior surfaces; a storage compartment attached to said inner surface of said window panel, said storage compartment defining at least one of a perimeter border, an island, a peninsula, and a strip extending across said inner surface; and an attachment member attaching said storage compartment to said inner surface of said window panel. 26. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 25, wherein said attachment member includes at least one selected from the group consisting of a hook-and-loop fastener, an interlocking pin fastener, a double-sided tape, a post, and a polymeric bead. 27. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 25, wherein said polymeric bead includes an adhesive bonding said attachment member to said inner surface. 28. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 27, wherein said adhesive is selected from the group consisting essentially of single-component adhesives, multi-component adhesives, chemically activated adhesives, thermally activated adhesives, moisture-curable adhesives, thermoplastic adhesives, and thermoset adhesives. 29. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 28, wherein said multi-component adhesive includes two-component urethanes. 30. A window panel assembly for a vehicle, comprising in combination: a window panel having opposing surfaces, and configured to fit in a window opening of the vehicle; a storage assembly attached to one of said opposing surfaces of said window panel; and an adhesive bonding said storage assembly to said window panel. 31. The window panel assembly as defined in 30, claim further including an opaque coating on said one opposing surface to conceal a bonding point of said storage assembly from an opposite surface of said window panel. 32. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 31, wherein said storage assembly is bonded to at least one of a perimeter, a peninsular area, an island area, a strip area, and a centerline of said window panel. 33. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 32, wherein said storage assembly includes at least one selected from the group consisting of a lighting system, an instrument display, a system control panel, a window panel shade, a hand grip, a sun visor assembly, and an interior trim. 34. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 33, wherein said storage assembly is bonded to said window panel prior to installation in the vehicle. 35. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 33, further including a plurality of attachment members interconnecting said storage assembly to said one opposing surfaces of said window panel. 36. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 35, wherein said attachment members include at least one selected from the group consisting of a hook-and-loop fastener, an interlocking pin fastener, a threaded fastener, a post, a double-sided tape, and a polymeric profile or bead. 37. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 30, wherein said vehicle accessory is detachable from said window panel. 38. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 30, wherein said vehicle accessory includes overhead accessories. 39. The window panel assembly as defined in claim 30, further including an adhesion-promoting compound between said two-component urethane and said window panel. 40. A vehicle window panel assembly, comprising in combination: a window panel having inner and outer surfaces terminating in a peripheral edge, said edge of said window panel defining an upper edge to be located proximate an upper edge of a vehicle window opening; an opaque coating bonded to at least a portion of said inner surface of said window panel proximate said peripheral edge; and at least one sun visor assembly adhesively mounted to said opaque coating on said inner surface proximate said upper edge of said window panel. 41. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 40, wherein said at least one sun visor assembly includes: a mounting member having one surface bonded to said opaque coating on said inner surface of said window panel; an arm pivotally coupled to, and extending from, said mounting member; and a sun visor panel pivotally attached to said arm. 42. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 41, wherein said at least one sun visor assembly, includes a bracket attached to said opaque coating and configured to receive at least one of said arm and said sun visor panel in a stowed position. 43. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 41, wherein said at least one sun visor assembly includes: a lamp assembly; and at least one of a power strip, and a pair of conductors extending along said inner surface of said window panel for interconnecting said lamp assembly to a power supply. 44. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 40, further including an adhesive for bonding said at least one sun visor assembly to said opaque coating. 45. The vehicle window panel assembly as defined in claim 44, wherein said adhesive includes a two-component urethane adhesive. 