A trajectory generation for a member such as a foot of a legged mobile robot. First, basic trajectories defining some typical motions of the foot including a constraint condition are established on a virtual plane or surface fixed on a coordinate system. The virtual plane is kept fixed on the ground until a time the foot is to be lifted. Then at this period free from the constraint condition, the coordinate system is displaced such that the virtual surface coincides with another point of the ground on which the foot is to be landed. A trajectory for a footrise to footfall is thus generated by combining the basic trajectories in the coordinate system and the amount of displacement of the coordinate system. Thus, the boundary conditions become extremely simple and hence, trajectory generation is greatly simplified. A real time trajectory correction can be conducted if desired.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling movement of a robot member by generating a trajectory of the member from a point P1 to a point P2 in real space, over a ground comprising: (a) establishing a trajectory of the member defining a motion of said member including a constraint condition thereof with respect to the ground in a first coordinate system in a virtual space set in the real space; (b) displacing the virtual space including the first coordinate system in the real space including a second coordinate system from the point P1 to the point P2 by translating or rotating the virtual space including the first coordinate system, wherein the virtual space including the first coordinate system is displaced in a period free from the constraint condition; and (c) controlling movement of the robot member from P1 to point P2 using the displacement of the virtual space in the real space. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the trajectory is established on a virtual plane including the point P1 fixed on the first coordinate system in the virtual space, and the virtual space including the first coordinate system is displaced in the real space including the second coordinate system such that the virtual plane coincides with a plane including the point P2. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the virtual space including the first coordinate system is displaced in the real space including the second coordinate system while avoiding an obstacle. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the constraint condition includes at least one among a displacement, a displacement velocity, a displacement acceleration, an angle, an angular velocity and an angular acceleration. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the trajectory is resolved to that for one among the x, y and z directions defined with respect to the real space including the second coordinate system. 6. A method for generating a trajectory of a member such as a member of a robot and for displacing the member with reference to a fixed surface from a point P1 to a point P2 in real space, comprising: (a) establishing a trajectory of the member defining a motion of said member including a constraint condition thereof with respect to the fixed surface in a first coordinate system in a virtual space set in the real space; (b) displacing the virtual space including the first coordinate system in the real space including a second coordinate system from the point P1 to the point P2 by translating or rotating the virtual space including the first coordinate system, wherein the displacement of the virtual space including the first coordinate system is determined based on an output of a digital filter by varying a location of a pole of said virtual space in a z transformation plane in such a manner that the pole disappears at a time for the member to arrive on the point p2; and (c) displacing the member using displacement of the virtual space. 7. A method for moving a member of a mobile robot on the ground from a point P1 to a point P2 in real space comprising: (a) establishing a trajectory of the member defining a motion of the member including a constraint condition relative to the ground in a first coordinate system in a virtual space set in the real space; (b) displacing the virtual space including the first coordinate system in the real space including a second coordinate system fixed on the ground from the point P1 towards the point P2, in a period free from the constraint condition; (c) fixing the virtual space including the first coordinate system to the real space including the second coordinate system; and (d) moving the member based on control information from the displacement of the virtual space. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the trajectory is established on a virtual plane including the point P1 in the virtual space, and the virtual space including the first coordinate system is fixed such that the virtual plane coincides with the ground including the point P2. 9. A method according to claim 7, wherein the virtual space including the first coordinate system is displaced in the real space including the second coordinate system by translating or rotating the virtual space including the first coordinate system. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the virtual space including the first coordinate system is displaced in the real space including the second coordinate system while avoiding an obstacle. 11. A method according to claim 7, wherein the constraint condition includes at least one among a displacement, a displacement velocity, a displacement acceleration, an angle, an angular velocity and an angular acceleration. 12. A method according to claim 7, wherein the trajectory is resolved to that for one among x, y and z directions defined with respect to the real space including the second coordinate system. 13. A method for generating a trajectory of, and for moving a foot member contacting the ground and connected to the distal end of a leg of a legged mobile robot, comprising: (a) establishing a trajectory of the foot member defining a motion of the foot member including a constraint condition relative to the ground in a first coordinate system in a virtual space set in a real space; (b) fixing the virtual space including the first coordinate system on the ground until a time when the foot member is to be taken off the ground; (c) displacing the virtual space including the first coordinate system in the real space including a second coordinate system fixed on the ground, at a period free from the constraint condition; (d) fixing again the virtual space including the first coordinate system on the ground at a time when the foot member is to be landed on the ground; and (e) controlling movement of the foot member using the displacing and fixing of the virtual space. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein the trajectory is established on a virtual plane fixed to the virtual space including the first coordinate system, and the virtual space including the first coordinate system is fixed on the ground in the real space such that the virtual plane coincides with the ground. 15. A method according to claim 13, wherein the virtual space including the coordinate system is displaced while avoiding an obstacle. 16. A method according to claim 13, wherein the virtual space including the coordinate system is displaced while decreasing reaction force generated when the foot member lands on the ground. 17. A method according to claim 13, wherein the constrain condition includes at least one among a displacement, a displacement velocity, a displacement acceleration, an angle, an angular velocity and an angular acceleration. 18. A method according to claim 13, wherein the trajectory is resolved to that for one among x, y and z directions defined with respect to the real space including the second coordinate system. 19. A system for generating a trajectory with reference to a fixed plane of a member of a mobile robot to be displaced from a point P1 to a point P2, comprising: first processing and memory means for establishing a trajectory of the member defining a motion of said member including a constraint condition thereof with respect to the fixed plane, in a first coordinate system in a virtual space set in real space; second processing means for displacing the virtual space including the first coordinate system in the real space including a second coordinate system, at a period free from the constraint condition; third means for combining the trajectory in the first coordinate system and the displacement of the first coordinate system in the virtual space to generate a trajectory of the member from the point P1 to the point P2; and an actuator linked to said member of the robot and controlled by the third means for moving said member from point P1 to point P2. 20. A system according to claim 19, wherein said first means establishes the trajectory on a virtual plane fixed to the first coordinate system in the virtual space, and said second means displaces the virtual space including the first coordinate system in the real space including a second coordinate system until the virtual plane coincides with a plane including the point P2. 21. A system according to claim 19, wherein said second means displaces the virtual space including the first coordinate system while avoiding an obstacle. 22. A system according to claim 19, wherein said first means establishes the trajectory to that for one among x, y and z directions defined with respect to the real space including the second coordinate system. 23. A method for generating a trajectory of a member such as a member of a robot to be displaced from a point P1 to a point P2 in real space, comprising: (a) establishing a trajectory of the member defining a motion of said member including a constraint condition thereof in a first coordinate system; and (b) displacing the first coordinate system in a second coordinate system from the point P1 to the point P2 by translating or rotating the first coordinate system, in a period free from the constraint condition. 24. A method for generating a trajectory of a member of a mobile robot to be displaced on the ground from a point P1 to a point P2 in real space comprising: (a) establishing a trajectory of the member defining a motion of said member including a constraint condition thereof in a first coordinate system; (b) displacing the first coordinate system in a second coordinate system fixed on the ground from the point P1 towards the point P2, in a period free from the constraint condition; and (c) fixing the first coordinate system to the second coordinate system. 25. A method for generating a trajectory of a foot member contacting the ground and connected to the distal end of a leg of a legged mobile robot, comprising: (a) establishing a trajectory of the foot member defining a motion of said member including a constraint condition thereof in a first coordinate system; (b) fixing the first coordinate system on the ground until a time the foot member is to be taken off the ground; (c) displacing the first coordinate system in a second coordinate system fixed on the ground in a period free from the constraint condition; and (d) fixing again the first coordinate system on the ground at a time when the foot member is to be landed on the ground. 26. A system for generating a trajectory of a member of a mobile robot to be displaced from a point P1 to a point P2, comprising: first means for establishing a trajectory of the member defining a motion of said member including a constraint condition thereof in a first coordinate system in; second means for displacing the first coordinate system in a second coordinate system in a period free from the constraint condition; and third means for combining the trajectory in the first coordinate system and the displacement of the first coordinate system to generate a trajectory of the member from the point P1 to the point P2. 27. A method for generating a trajectory of a member such as a member of a robot to be displaced from a point P1 to a point P2 in real space, comprising: (a) establishing a trajectory of the member defining a motion of said member including a constraint condition thereof in a first coordinate system; and (b) displacing the first coordinate system in a second coordinate system from the point P1 to the point P2 by translating or rotating the first coordinate system, based on an output of a digital filter by varying the location of its pole in a z transformation plane in such a manner that the pole disappears at a time for the member to arrive on the point P2. 