A robotic arm utilizing two pulleys connected by two metal drive bands wound in opposite directions and rotatably attached to the pulleys. The metal drive bands may include multiple metal strips separated by a visco-elastic material. One end of one drive band is attached to the pulley by a pin. The pin has a laterally movable retaining piece with a slanted face having an attachment point connected to one end of the metal band, a vertically movable wedge piece with a face abutting the slanted face, and an adjustment piece which attaches the wedge piece to the pulley and moves the wedge piece vertically.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic arm, comprising: a pulley located at a joint of said robotic arm; a metallic band; and a positioning mechanism attaching said metallic band to said pulley, said positioning mechanism including i) a laterally movable retaining piece having an attachment point connected to one end of said metallic band, said retaining piece having a slanted face, ii) a vertically movable wedge piece having a face abutting said slanted face, and iii) an adjustment piece to attach said wedge piece to said pulley and to move said wedge piece vertically. 2. The robotic arm of claim 1 wherein said metal band includes an aperture at one end of said band, and said retaining piece includes a projection which fits through said aperture. 3. The robotic arm of claim 2 wherein said adjustment piece is a screw. 4. A robotic arm comprising: a first pulley located at a first joint of said robotic arm and having a first cylindrical surface; a second pulley located at a second joint of said robotic arm and having a second cylindrical surface; and a metallic drive band, said drive band having one end pivotally attached to said first pulley at a first attachment point and free to pivot about a first axis normal to the first cylindrical surface, said first axis passing through said first attachment point, said drive band having another end pivotally attached to said second pulley at a second attachment point and free to pivot about a second axis normal to the second cylindrical surface, said second axis passing through said second attachment point. 5. The robotic arm of claim 4 wherein said drive band includes a laminar stack of a plurality of parallel metallic strips. 6. The robotic arm of claim 5 wherein said laminar stack includes a layer of visco-elastic material which separates said parallel metallic strips. 7. The robotic arm of claim 4 wherein said drive band includes an aperture at one end thereof, and said pulley includes a projection which fits through said aperture. 8. The robotic arm of claim 7 further including a retaining clip to hold said drive band on said projection. 