A cleaning device for cleaning windows comprises an elongate wiper element (C) which is robotically controlled to move across the surface of the window to apply and remove cleaning fluid therefrom. The robotic control can be arranged so that the movement of the wiper element corresponds to that which it would follow if used manually by a skilled window cleaner. The wiper element maintains continuous contact with the entire surface of the window without displacement of the wiper from the surface of the window during cleaning.
Claims We claim: 1. Cleaning apparatus for cleaning windows comprising frame structure, an elongate wiper element having a length less than a side of a window and carried by said frame structure, means carried by said frame structure and operatively coupled to the wiper element for moving said element continuously along and in continuous contact with the entire surface of the window during cleaning and without displacement of said wiper element from the surface of the window, and automated control means coupled to said moving means for controlling the movement of said element across the surface of the window, said element including a wiper blade in continuous contact with the surface of the window during cleaning. 2. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said moving means includes elements enabling movement of the wiper along an X-axis, a Y-axis, and a Z-axis of a Cartesian coordinate system wherein said X-axis and Y-axis define a plane parallel to a plane containing the window. 3. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said moving means includes elements enablinq the wiper for rotation about said Z-axis. 4. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the automated control means is programmed to cause the wiper to move back and forth between opposite sides of the window and from a top of the window downwardly to a bottom of the window thereby to simulate the movements of a human arm and hand when cleaning windows manually. 5. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said control means includes means comprising the wiper element and a sensor carried thereby for sensing the dimensions of the window to be cleaned. 6. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 5, wherein said control means includes processing means for establishing a pattern of movement to be followed by the wiper element during cleaning. 7. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the wiper element includes a member mounted for limited longitudinal movement responsive to contact of said wiper element with a window margin to actuate said sensor. 8. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the wiper element includes a member mounted for limited movement normal to its length and responsive to contact of said wiper element with the window to actuate a sensor of said control means during cleaning. 9. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 8, wherein said control means includes means for operating the wiper element in two modes, a first datum mode during which window margins are sensed, and a second mode during which cleaning occurs. 10. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said wiper element comprises a body, and an elongate cleaning portion carried by said body, said cleaning portion having projecting parts which when pressed into contact with a window form with the window a chamber, said body being formed with passages through which cleaning fluid can be applied to said chamber to clean said window. 11. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 10, wherein said projecting parts are formed by an elongate cleaning brush and an elongate wiper blade. 12. Cleaning apparatus for cleaning windows, comprising an elongate wiper element including a wiper blade, means for flowing a cleaning fluid through said wiper element onto a surface of the window, and an automated control means operatively coupled to said wiper element to control movement of said wiper element across the surface of the window, said control means causing said wiper element to make a single continuous sweep across the entire surface of the window to apply the cleaning fluid thereto and remove the cleaning fluid therefrom by said blade during the single continuous sweep of the wiper element across the surface of the window. 13. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the wiper is carried by a frame structure, said frame structure enabling movement of the wiper element along an X-axis, a Y-axis, and a Z-axis of a Cartesian coordinate system wherein said X-axis and said Y-axis define a plane parallel to a plane containing the window. 14. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the wiper element is rotatable about said Z-axis. 15. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said control means senses by traverse of said wiper element along the window the dimensions of the window to be cleaned. 16. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 15, wherein said control means includes processing means for establishing a pattern of movement to be followed by the wiper element during cleaning. 17. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the wiper element includes a member mounted for limited longitudinal movement responsive to contact of said wiper element with a window margin to actuate said sensor. 18. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the wiper element includes a member mounted for limited movement normal to its length and responsive to contact of said wiper element with the window to actuate a sensor of said control means during cleaning. 19. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said control means includes means for operating the wiper element in two modes, a first datum mode during which window margins are sensed, and a second mode during which cleaning occurs. 20. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 12, wherein said wiper element includes a cleaning head comprising a body, and an elongate cleaning portion carried by said body, said cleaning portion having projecting parts including said blade which, when pressed into contact with the window, form a chamber, said body having passages through which cleaning fluid is supplied to said chamber to clean said window. 21. Cleaning apparatus according to claim 20, wherein said projecting parts include an elongate cleaning brush. 