A new method and apparatus for fabrication or alignment of fixtures, jigs and structures is disclosed. The invention uses target points on one or more details which are referenced to the overall structure via targets on the details. These targets are monitored by a TV camera unit which is alternatively interfaced to a display for the human operator or a robot to provide position data. The interface may include input from a CAD system which allows display on robot coordinates to be offset by design data of the structure or a part to be located on it. While mainly envisioned for assistance in constructing fixtures for automobile assembly, the disclosed invention is widely useable for all types of construction including aircraft, bridges, boats, buses, houses, buildings and the like. A means for improving resolution of automatically servoed camera based systems is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the location of objects located on a base, comprising the steps of: (a) providing said base in a known position in space, said base having mounted thereon, a plurality of objects, each of said objects having a machine readable datum; (b) determining the position of each of said objects by viewing said datum with an electro-optical sensor, said sensor being in a known position relative to said base; (c) comparing the determined positions of objects with correct positions of said objects, said correct positions being indicated by CAD database position data; and (d) determining any differences between said determined positions and said correct positions. 2. A method according to claim 1 further including the step of providing a CAD data base of said objects on said base. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said electro-optical sensor includes a TV camera. 4. A method according to claim 1 further comprising determining object cartesian and/or angular position data. 5. A method according to claim 1 further comprising moving the sensor to view sequential objects or datums on the same object. 6. A method according to claim 1 further comprising rotating or translating the sensor to view sequential objects, or datums on the same object. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein said object has multiple datums, simultaneously visible in the field of said sensor. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein said sensor comprises at least one stereo pair of TV cameras. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein said sensor includes a laser beam projector. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein said sensing is automatic. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein said sensing automatically proceeds from one object to the next. 12. A method according to claim 1 wherein said datum is a retroreflector. 13. A method according to claim 1 wherein said datum is a feature of said objects. 14. A method according to claim 1 wherein said sensor comprises a pair of separated TV cameras on motorized theodolite mounts. 15. A method according to claim 1 including the further step of repositioning said object in accordance with location or alignment data provided. 16. A method for automatically providing instructions for positioning objects in desired object positions in space, comprising the steps of: (a) positioning a plurality of objects; (b) providing a data base of desired positions in space of said objects; (c) determining, with an electro-optical measuring system, the positions of said objects in space, (d) determining the positions of said objects in space with respect to said desired positions of the objects of said data base; and (e) automatically generating, from object positions determined in step (d), instructions for positioning said objects in said desired positions. 