A surface of a 3-D object is digitized automatically and stored in a memory. Based on the signal representation of the 3-D object areas of the surface are defined for color and boundaries. Coatings application paths are defined within each area and various parameters for applying coatings for each point in each path are also defined including spray pattern, amount of coatings to be applied, speed of application along the path, among others; for each area, the points of the selected path are correlated with the angle of attack, spray pattern, amount of coatings and speed. A set of programmed instructions are compiled for execution in a general purpose computer. An assembly line of objects to be painted may then be set up and the retrieved instructions executed.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for utilizing a stored representation of a surface of a three-dimensional object, comprising the steps of: selecting a plurality of areas of the surface for application of a corresponding plurality of differently colored coatings; and for each selected area, selecting a coatings application path of points along the surface. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: for each selected area, orienting the three-dimensional object with respect to a coatings applicator and orienting the coatings applicator for applying the corresponding colored coatings at each point of the coatings application path. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: for each selected area, orienting the three-dimensional object with respect to a coatings applicator and orienting the coatings applicator with respect to the surface of the object for applying the corresponding colored coatings at each point of the coatings application path with a selected amount of coatings. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the selected amount of coatings is controlled by pulse width modulation or by pulse position modulation of a valve in the coatings applicator. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected amount of coatings is controlled by pulse position modulation or by pulse width modulation of a valve in the coatings applicator. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing a plurality of three-dimensional objects, each having a three-dimensional surface corresponding to the stored representation and, for each selected area for each object, orienting the object with respect to a coatings applicator and orienting the coatings applicator with respect to the surface of the object, for applying the corresponding colored coatings at each point of the coatings application path. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of selecting, for each point in each coatings application path, a spray pattern. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of selecting, for each point in each coatings application path, a selected angle from a normal to the surface at that point for applying coatings to the surface at that angle. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of selecting, for each coatings application path, or portion thereof, a selected speed for applying coatings along the path. 10. A coating application method for applying a coating to an object, comprising the steps of: providing, in response to a series of stored instructions, an arm control signal and a coating supply signal; moving, in response to said arm control signal, an articulated robot arm having a coating applicator mounted thereon along a coating application path on a three-dimensional surface of said object at various applicator positions and angles with respect to a normal to the three-dimensional surface of the object dictated by the arm control signal; and providing, in response to said coating supply control signal, said coating from said applicator in a controlled amount to the surface of the object. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said controlled amount of coating provided from said applicator is controlled by pulse width or pulse position modulation. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of controlling, in response to a pattern control signal, the magnitude of a solid angle of coating applied by said applicator to said object. 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of controlling, in response to a speed control signal, the speed of said moving of the articulated robot arm so as to maintain a selected speed of the applicator with respect to said surface along said coating application path. 14. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of conveying, in response to a conveyor control signal, a plurality of objects past the articulated arm for being coated by the coating applicator. 15. The method of claim 10, further comprising the steps of: conveying, in response to a conveyor control signal, said object past a plurality of articulated robot arms, each having separate coating applicators mounted thereon; each arm applying, in response to separate coating supply and arm control signals, a coating to the object along different coating application paths in specified areas of the three-dimensional surface of the object at various positions and angles with respect to the three-dimensional surface of the object. providing, in response to a series of stored instructions, said robot arm control signal and said effector control signal. 16. A method for controlling a robot arm having an effector mounted thereon, comprising the steps of: providing, in response to a series of stored instructions, a robot arm control signal and an effector control signal; moving, in response to a robot arm control signal, said robot arm for moving said effector along a selected path on a three-dimensional surface of an object at various effector positions and angles with respect to a normal to the three-dimensional surface of the object dictated by the robot arm control signal; and controlling, in response to an effector control signal, said effector to effect said object. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising the step of conveying, in response to a conveyor control signal, a plurality of objects past the robot arm for being effected thereby. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising the steps of: providing, in response to a series of stored instructions, separate robot arm control signals, separate effector control signals, and a conveyor control signal; conveying, in response to said conveyor control signal, said object past a plurality of robot arms, each having separate effectors mounted thereon; moving each effector, in response to a corresponding one of the separate robot arm control signals, along corresponding effector paths at various positions and angles with respect to a normal to the three-dimensional surface of the object; and controlling each effector, in response to a corresponding one of the separate effector control signals, to effect said object. 19. The method of claim 16, further comprising the steps of also providing, in response to said series of stored instructions, a speed control signal, and controlling, in response to said speed control signal, the speed of said moving of the robot arm so as to maintain a selected speed of the effector with respect to said surface. 20. The method of claim 10, wherein said coating application path comprises points along the three-dimensional surface selected from a stored representation of the three-dimensional surface of the object. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein said coating application path comprises points along the three-dimensional surface selected from a stored representation of the three-dimensional surface of the object. 22. A coating application method for applying a coating to an object, comprising the steps of: providing, in response to a series of stored instructions utilizing a stored representation of a three-dimensional surface of said object, an arm control signal and a coating supply signal; moving, in response to said arm control signal, an articulated robot arm having a coating applicator mounted thereon along a coating application path on said three-dimensional surface of said object; and providing, in response to said coating supply signal, said coating from said applicator in various controlled amounts along said coating application path for controlling application of said coating to said object in various corresponding coating thicknesses. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the selected amount of coatings is controlled by pulsewidth modulation or by pulse position modulation of a valve in the coatings applicator. 24. The method of claim 22, further comprising the step of controlling, in response to a speed control signal, a speed of application along the coating application path. 25. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of applying the corresponding colored coatings at each point of the coatings application paths with a selected amount of coatings. 26. The method of claim 10, wherein said step of providing said coating in a controlled amount is for providing said coating from said applicator in various controlled amounts along the coating application path for controlling application of said coating to the object in various corresponding coating thicknesses. 