An arm member having a folding expansion/contraction mechanism is fixed to a rotary shaft. A support member is rotatively mounted on the distal end of the arm member. This support member maintains a constant relationship with the rotary shaft. An auxiliary support member is mounted on a support shaft fixed to the support member, the auxiliary support member being able to swing. A cam mechanism is provided at rotation portions of the support member and auxiliary support member. The auxiliary support member is swung by this cam mechanism in accordance with a folding expansion/contraction motion of the arm member.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic arm comprising: a rotary shaft; an articulated arm member fixed to said rotary shaft and having a folding expansion/contraction mechanism; a support member rotatively supported by a distal end of said arm member, said folding mechanism being connected between said shaft and said support member for providing a constant relationship between said rotary shaft and said support member; an auxiliary support member supported by a support shaft fixed to said support member for supporting a workpiece in cooperation with said support member, said auxiliary support member being swingable an association with a folding expansion/contraction motion of said arm member and a cam mechanism provided at portions where said auxiliary support member and said arm member are coupled with each other for swinging said auxiliary support member in association with said folding expansion/contraction motion of said arm member. 2. A robotic arm according to claim 1, wherein: said cam mechanism comprises: a cam surface formed on and fixed to said arm member around a central rotation axis of said portions; and a cam follower surface formed on said auxiliary support member for contacting said cam surface, and said robotic arm further comprises an elastic member connected between said auxiliary support member and said support member for imparting a swinging force to said auxiliary member and making said cam follower surface push said cam surface. 3. A robotic arm according to claim 1, wherein: said support member includes a support surface for supporting a workpiece in one direction; and said auxiliary support member includes an auxiliary support surface facing said support surface of said support member for sandwiching the workpiece with said support surface of said support member. 4. A robotic arm according to claim 2, wherein said support member includes a support surface for supporting a workpiece in one direction; and said auxiliary support member includes an auxiliary support surface facing said support surface of said support member for sandwiching the workpiece with said support surface of said support member. 5. A robotic arm according to claim 3, wherein: said support member has a holding surface for holding the workpiece; and said support surface and said auxiliary support surface contact the side wall of the workpiece held by the holding surface to constrain the position of the workpiece. 6. A robotic arm according to claim 4, wherein: said support member has a holding surface for holding the workpiece and said support surface and said auxiliary support surface contact the side wall of the workpiece held by the holding surface to constrain the position of the workpiece. 7. A robotic arm according to claim 1, further comprising another auxiliary member mounted on said support member, said another auxiliary member being capable of swinging and being symmetrical to said auxiliary member relative to a virtual plane containing a central rotation axis of the portions and passing through the center of said support surface; and wherein said cam mechanism further includes another cam surface for driving said another auxiliary support member, said another cam surface being symmetrical with said cam surface relative to the central rotation axis of said portions. 8. A robotic arm according to claim 2, further comprising another auxiliary member mounted on said support member, said another auxiliary member being capable of swinging and being symmetrical to said auxiliary member relative to a virtual plane containing a central rotation axis of the portions and passing through the center of said support surface; and wherein said cam mechanism further includes another cam surface for driving said other auxiliary support member, said another cam surface being symmetrical with said cam surface relative to the central rotation axis of said portions. 