An apparatus for positioning a workpiece comprises a plurality of pedestals each comprising a first portion having a first width, a second portion having a second width greater than the first width, and a chamfered portion interposed between the first and second portions. The inventive apparatus further comprises a support having a plurality of holes therein for receiving the plurality of pedestals, the support further having a plurality of chamfered portions with one the chamfered portion about a periphery of each the hole. A base urges the chamfered portions of the pedestal away from the chamfered portions of the support.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for positioning a workpiece, comprising: a pedestal comprising a first portion having a first width, a second portion having a second width greater than said first width, and a chamfered portion interposed between said first and second portions; a support having a hole therein which receives said pedestal, said support further having a chamfered portion; a base for urging said chamfered portion of said pedestal away from said chamfered portion of said support. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said base is adapted to move said pedestal in X, Y, Z, and theta directions. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 in combination with a workpiece received by said second portion of said pedestal. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said support is adapted to rotate. 5. An apparatus for positioning a workpiece, comprising: a plurality of pedestals each comprising a first portion having a first width, a second portion having a second width greater than said first width, and a chamfered portion interposed between said first and second portions; a support having a plurality of holes therein for receiving said plurality of pedestals, said support further having a plurality of chamfered portions with one said chamfered portion about a periphery of each said hole; a base for urging said chamfered portions of said pedestal away from said chamfered portions of said support. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 further comprising a tester positioned above at least one of said pedestals, wherein base said is adapted to urge said second portion of said at least one of said pedestals toward said tester. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said support is adapted to rotate such that each said pedestal can be positioned under said tester. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said base is adapted to move said pedestals in X, Y, and Z directions. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said base is further adapted to rotate said pedestals. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said base is adapted to be heated such that heat is transferred to said pedestal. 11. A method for positioning a workpiece, comprising: placing said workpiece on a pedestal, said pedestal comprising a first portion having a first width, a second portion having a second width greater than said first width, and a chamfered portion interposed between said first and second portions; providing a support having a hole therein which receives said pedestal, said support further having a chamfered portion; urging said chamfered portion of said pedestal away from said chamfered portion of said support. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said pedestal is urged away from said chamfered portion of said support using a base. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of rotating said support to position said pedestal over said base. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein said base and said pedestal do not contact during said step of rotating said support. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein said pedestal rests on said base during said step of urging said pedestal away from said chamfered portion. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of heating said base, said heated base transferring heat to said pedestal. 17. The method of claim 11 further comprising the steps of: moving said pedestal chamfered portion in a Z direction during said step of urging said pedestal chamfered portion away from said support chamfered portion; subsequent to urging said pedestal away from said support, moving said pedestal in at least one of X, Y, and theta directions. 