An interface for incorporation between an articulated arm robot and a cutting nozzle for cutting a circular opening in a workpiece. The interface includes apparatus for moving the cutting nozzle independently of the arm robot. The interface includes a first moving mechanism for moving the cutting device linearly to an offset position with respect to an axis extending through a center of the opening to be cut, and a second moving mechanism for moving the offset cutting nozzle in a circular path around the axis to cut the opening.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cutting system, comprising: an articulated arm robot having a plurality of movements; a cutting device movable by said articulated arm robot for cutting a workpiece, said cutting device comprises a curing tool for curing a curved shape in said workpiece; and an interface connected between said arm robot and said cutting device, said interface including a mechanism for moving said cutting device independently of said plurality of movements of said arm robot, wherein said moving mechanism comprises a first moving mechanism for moving said cutting tool to a position offset with respect to an axis extending through a center of curvature of a curved shape to be cut, and a second moving mechanism for moving said cutting tool along a curved path around said axis to cut said curved shape. 2. The cutting system of claim 1 wherein said cutting tool comprises a cutting nozzle for delivering a high pressure flow of cutting fluid. 3. The cutting system of claim 2 further comprising a source for supplying a flow of cutting fluid via a fluid passage to said cutting nozzle. 4. The cutting system of claim 1 wherein said first moving mechanism comprises: a mounting member coupled to said second moving mechanism; a first motor mounted to said mounting member, said first motor having a rotatable shaft; a pivoting member coupled to said mounting member, and said cutting tool being coupled to said pivoting member; and an actuation device coupled between said shaft of said first motor and said pivoting member, said actuation device translating a rotational motion of said shaft into a linear movement of said tool when said shaft of said first motor is rotated. 5. The cutting system of claim 4 wherein said second moving mechanism comprises: a mounting bracket fixedly coupled to said articulated arm robot, and said mounting member being rotatably coupled to said mounting bracket; a second motor fixedly mounted to said mounting bracket, said second motor having a rotatable shaft; and a drive system coupled between said shaft of said second motor and said mounting member to transmit a rotational force from said shaft of said second motor to said mounting member to cause a rotational movement of said cutting tool. 6. The cutting system of claim 5 wherein said drive system comprises: a drive gear coupled to said shaft of said second motor; and a driven gear coupled to said mounting member, said driven gear being positioned in an engaging relationship with said drive gear. 7. The cutting system of claim 5 wherein said first motor and said second motor each comprise a stepper motor. 8. A cutting system, comprising: a fluid source for supplying a flow of a cutting fluid; a cutting nozzle for delivering a high pressure flow of said cutting fluid; a fluid passage for coupling said fluid source to said cutting nozzle; an articulated arm robot having a plurality of movements; a mounting bracket fixedly coupled to said arm robot; a rotation motor fixedly mounted to said mounting bracket, said rotation motor having a rotatable shaft; a mounting member rotatably coupled to said mounting bracket; a drive system coupled between said shaft of said rotation motor and said mounting member to transmit a rotational force from said shaft of said rotation motor to said mounting member to cause a rotational motion of said mounting member; an offset motor mounted to said mounting member, said offset motor having a rotatable shaft; a pivoting member coupled to said mounting member, and said cutting nozzle being coupled to said pivoting member; and an actuation device coupled between said shaft of said offset motor and said pivoting member, said actuation device translating a rotational motion of said shaft of said offset motor into a linear movement of said cutting nozzle when said shaft of said offset motor is rotated. 9. The cutting system of claim 8, wherein said fluid comprises water. 