A new generation of hybrid form multi-axis machine tools is described. The hybrid machine tools comprise a position mechanism and an orientation mechanism. Both mechanisms are three-DOF parallel mechanisms that can be connected either in series to form a hybrid parallel-serial manipulator, or in parallel to form a cooperating machine. The position mechanism is used for manipulating the position and the orientation mechanism is used for manipulating the orientation of an object. Six-axes machining of a workpiece is achieved by coordinating the motions of the position and orientation mechanisms. This approach has several important advantages. First of all, a high stiffness, low inertia, and high speed machine tool is realized by using the parallel construction. Secondly, its direct and inverse kinematic solutions could be solved in closed forms which would greatly simplify the control and path planning problems. Thirdly, it has a relatively large workspace in comparison to fully parallel platform manipulators. Fourthly, its position and orientation are completely decoupled. Lastly, it utilizes mostly revolute joints which can be precisely made at low cost.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A multi-degree-of-freedom hybrid machine tool comprising: a position mechanism having a translation platform movably connected to a fixed base by several limbs for manipulating the position but not the orientation of said translation platform; an orientation mechanism having a rotation platform movably connected to a base member by several legs for manipulating the orientation but not the position of said rotation platform; said base member of said orientation mechanism rigidly attached to said fixed base of said position mechanism; a spindle attached to said translation platform of said position mechanism for mounting a cutting tool; and a gripping mechanism attached to said rotation platform of said orientation mechanism for mounting a workpiece. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the attachment points of said spindle and said gripping mechanism are interchanged. 3. A multi-degree-of-freedom hybrid machine tool comprising: a position mechanism having a translation platform movably connected to a fixed base by several limbs for manipulating the position but not the orientation of said translation platform; an orientation mechanism having a rotation platform movably connected to a base member by several legs for manipulating the orientation but not the position of said rotation platform; said base member of said orientation mechanism rigidly attached to said translation platform of said position mechanism; a spindle attached to said rotation platform of said orientation mechanism for mounting a cutting tool; and a gripping mechanism attached to said fixed base of said position mechanism for mounting a workpiece. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein the attachment points of said spindle and said gripping mechanism are interchanged. 5. A three-degree-of-freedom position mechanism comprising: three limbs each having an upper arm and a forearm; each said upper arm of said limbs comprising a planar four-bar parallelogram; each said planar four-bar parallelogram of said upper arm having a first link, a second link, a third link, and a fourth link movably connected in a closed loop; said first link of each said planar four-bar parallelogram movably attached to a translation platform by a first revolute joint at non-collinear points on said translation platform; each said forearm of said limbs having a first end and a second and; said third link of each said planar parallelogram movably attached to said first end of said forearm by a second revolute joint; said second end of each said forearm movably connected to a fixed base by a third revolute joint at non-collinear points on said fixed base; said first, second, and third revolute joints being parallel to one another and perpendicular to the rotation axes of said planar four-bar parallelogram; driver means affixed to said fixed base and movably attached to each said second end of said forearm for providing rotation to each said forearm thereby manipulating the position of said translation platform; and said translation platform of said position mechanism having a constant orientation with respect to said fixed base. 6. A three-degree-of-freedom position mechanism comprising: three limbs each having an upper arm and a forearm; each said upper arm of said limbs having a first end and a second end; each said forearm of said limbs having a first end and a second end; said first end of said upper arm movably attached to a translation platform by a cylindrical joint at non-collinear points on said translation platform; said first end of said forearm movably attached to said second end of said upper arm by a first revolute joint; said second end of said forearm movably attached to a fixed base by a second revolute joint at non-collinear points on said fixed base; said cylindrical joint, first revolute joint, and second revolute joint being parallel to one another; driver means affixed to said fixed base and movably attached to each said second end of said forearm for providing rotation to each said forearm thereby manipulating the position of said translation platform; and said translation platform of said position mechanism having a constant orientation with respect to said fixed base. 7. The device of claim 6 wherein said cylindrical joint and said first revolute joint are interchanged. 8. The device of claim 6 wherein said cylindrical joint and said second revolute joint are interchanged. 9. The device of claim 6 wherein said cylindrical joint is substituted by a revolute joint and a prismatic joint with an added intermediate member. 10. The device of claim 7 wherein said cylindrical joint is substituted by a revolute joint and a prismatic joint with an added intermediate member. 11. The device of claim 8 wherein said cylindrical joint is substituted by a revolute joint and a prismatic joint with an added intermediate member. 12. A three-degree-of-freedom orientation mechanism comprising: three legs each having an upper member and a lower member; each said upper member of said legs having a first end and a second end; each said lower member of said legs having a first end and a second end; said first end of said upper member movably attached to a rotation platform by a first revolute joint at non-collinear points on said rotation platform; said first end of said lower member movably attached to said second end of said upper member by a second revolute joint; said second end of said lower member movably attached to a base member by a third revolute joint at non-collinear points on said base member; said rotation platform movably attached to said base member by a spherical joint; said first, second, and third revolute joints intersecting at the center of said spherical joint; driver means affixed to said base member and movably attached to each said lower member of said legs for providing rotation to each said lower member thereby manipulating the orientation of said rotation platform; and said rotation platform of said orientation mechanism having a point fixed on said base member. 