A pass thru port, for use in an automated cartridge library, is capable of transferring a cartridge from one module of the automated cartridge library to another module of the automated cartridge library without the use of motors or other powered devices. A rotating mechanism, operating under the force of gravity, engages the cartridge after the cartridge is released by the robot arm of the first module. The rotating mechanism turns the cartridge so it faces in the appropriate direction to be received by the second module. A pivoting tray in the second module engages the cartridge as the cartridge slides from the rotating mechanism to the second module. The pivoting tray positions the cartridge in the second module so that it may be retrieved by a robot arm in the second module. Multiple cartridges can be loaded into the pass thru port and removed one at a time from the second module with the next module automatically moving into position in the second module when the first cartridge is removed.
Claims I claim: 1. A pass thru port for transferring a cartridge, using only the effect of gravitational force, from an originating storage module wherein said cartridge resides at a first orientation and a first angle to a receiving storage module wherein said cartridge resides at a second orientation and a second angle, comprising: conveying means for conveying said cartridge from said originating storage module to a rotating means, said rotating means operable to turn said cartridge from said first orientation to said second orientation and deliver said cartridge to a pivoting means, said pivoting means operable for receiving said cartridge from said rotating means and pivoting said cartridge from said first angle to said second angle. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said conveying means is comprised of a chute connected at an upper end to a cell in said originating storage module and operable to receive a cartridge inserted into said cell from said originating storage module for delivery to said rotating means. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said rotating means comprises: a bucket rotatably mounted to said conveying means, and aligned to receive said cartridge from said conveying means, said bucket being operable to receive said cartridge at a first position and rotate to a second position to deliver said cartridge to said pivoting means. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said bucket is mounted to said conveying means through a shaft connected to said conveying means and inserted eccentrically through said bucket. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said rotating means further comprises: a biasing means to hold bucket in said first position until said biasing means is overcome by the weight of said cartridge in said bucket. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pivoting means further comprises: a housing, a tray for receiving said cartridge from said rotating means, said tray mounted within said housing so as to pivot about its point of connection to said housing an actuation means, responsive to receipt of said cartridge in said tray, for causing said tray to move from said first angle to said second angle within said housing. 7. Apparatus as in claim 6 wherein said actuation means further comprises: a latch slidably connected to said housing and responsive to receipt of said cartridge in said tray for releasing said tray from a catch whereby said tray pivots under the weight of said cartridge from said first angle to said second angle. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said actuation means further comprises: tray biasing means to position said tray at said first angle when said cartridge is removed from said tray. 9. An automated tape library having two storage modules each containing a polygonal array of cartridge storage cells, comprising: a cartridge storage cell in said first storage module for receiving a cartridge, pass thru means connected to said storage modules and using only the effect of gravitational force for changing the orientation of said cartridge from a first orientation to a second orientation, pivoting means in said second storage module and using only the effect of gravitational force for receiving said cartridge at a first angle and positioning said cartridge at a second angle. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said pass thru means comprises: a bucket rotatably mounted and aligned to receive said cartridge from said first storage module and to deliver to said second storage module. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said pivoting means comprises: a housing arranged within said polygonal array of said second storage module, a tray pivotally connected to said housing and positioned for receiving said cartridge from said pass thru means, an actuation means, response to receipt of said cartridge in said tray, for causing said tray to move from said first angle to said second angle. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said actuation means comprises: a latch slidably connected to said housing and responsive to receipt of said cartridge in said tray for releasing said tray from a catch whereby said tray pivots under the weight of said cartridge from said first angle to said angle. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein said actuation means further comprises: tray biasing means to position said tray at said first angle when said cartridge is removed from said tray. 14. In a pass thru port for transferring a cartridge, using only the effect of gravitational force, from an originating storage module wherein said cartridge resides at a first orientation and a first angle to a receiving storage module wherein said cartridge resides at a second orientation and a second angle, a method comprising the steps of: conveying said cartridge from said originating storage module to a rotating means rotating said cartridge in said rotating means from said first orientation to said second orientation to deliver said cartridge to a pivoting means; and pivoting said cartridge from said first angle to said second angle. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said step of conveying comprises: connecting a chute at an upper end to a cell in said originating storage module; and receiving a cartridge inserted into said cell from said originating storage module for delivery to said rotating means. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein said step of rotating said cartridge further comprises the step of: biasing said rotating means at a first position until said cartridge is received by said rotating means; and rotating said rotating means to a second position to deliver said cartridge to said pivoting means. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein said step of pivoting further comprises the step of: receiving said cartridge from said rotating means to a tray, causing said tray to pivot from a first angle to a second angle. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said step of causing said tray to pivot further comprises the steps of: contacting a latch with said cartridge when said cartridge is received in said tray whereby said tray is caused to pivot under the weight of said cartridge from said first angle to said second angle. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the step of causing said tray to pivot further comprises the step of: biasing said tray to said to first angle when said cartridge is removed from said tray. 20. In a method for operating an automated tape library having two storage modules each containing a polygonal array of cartridge storage cells, the method comprising the steps of: inserting a cartridge in a storage cell in said first storage module for receiving said cartridge, changing the orientation of said cartridge from a first orientation to a second orientation using only the effect of gravitational force, pivoting said cartridge from a first angle to a second angle using only the effect of gravitational force. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the step of changing the orientation of said cartridge further comprises the steps of: rotating a bucket aligned to receive said cartridge from said first storage module to a position to deliver said cartridge to said second storage module. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein said step of pivoting further comprises the steps of: receiving said cartridge from said rotating means to a tray, causing said tray to pivot from a first angle to a second angle. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein said step of causing said tray to pivot further comprises the steps of: contacting a latch with said cartridge when said cartridge is received in said tray whereby said tray is caused to pivot under the weight of said cartridge from said first angle to said second angle. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the step of causing said tray to pivot further comprises the step of: biasing said tray to said first angle when said cartridge is removed from said tray. 