Glass substrates suitable for thin film processing can be batch heated to processing temperatures and batch cooled after processing by radiant heating and cooling in a vacuum chamber. The heating and/or cooling chamber is fitted with a cassette including heat conductive shelves that can be heated or cooled, interleaved by the glass substrates mounted on supports so that a gap exists between the shelves and the substrates. As the shelves provide heating or cooling, the glass substrates are radiantly heated or cooled by the shelves, thereby providing uniform heating or cooling of the glass substrates so as to avoid damage or warpage of the substrates. A vacuum system for processing the substrates includes batch-type heating and cooling of the substrates using the chambers of the invention in combination with one-at-a-time film processing chambers that can deposit one or more thin films on the substrates.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of at least one of heating or cooling substrates in a vacuum system including at least one vacuum chamber, comprising: a) providing a plurality of thermally-conductive shelves in contact with interior sidewalls of a cassette in said vacuum chamber so that heat is conducted to and from said conductive shelves; b) supporting the substrates on dielectric supports mounted on said conductive shelves to provide a gap between the substrates and said shelves, thereby avoiding direct contact of the substrates with said shelves; and c) changing the temperature of the interior sidewalls to effect at least one of heating the substrates to a temperature of about 350.degree.-400.degree. C. or cooling the substrates to ambient temperature from a temperature of about 350.degree.-400.degree. C. at a rate to avoid thermal stress in the substrates. 2. A method for heating or cooling glass substrates in a vacuum chamber, comprising: a) providing a plurality of heat conductive shelves in contact with interior sidewalls of a cassette in the vacuum chamber to conduct heat to and from the shelves to heat or cool the glass substrates by radiant heating or cooling; b) supporting the glass substrates on dielectric supports to provide a gap between the glass substrates and the shelves to minimize direct thermal contact between the shelves and the glass substrates; and c) at least one of heating or cooling the interior sidewalls to heat the glass substrates to a temperature of about 350.degree.-400.degree. C. or to cool the glass substrates to ambient temperature from a temperature of about 350.degree.-400.degree. C. at a rate to avoid thermal stress in the glass substrates. 3. A method of heating or cooling substrates in a vacuum system, comprising: a) providing a plurality of thermally-conductive shelves in contact with interior sidewalls of a cassette in a vacuum chamber so that heat is conducted to said conductive shelves; b) supporting the substrates on dielectric supports mounted on said conductive shelves to provide a gap between the substrates and said shelves, thereby avoiding direct contact of the substrates with said shelves; c) changing the temperature of the interior sidewalls to effect heating of the substrates to a temperature of about 350.degree.-400.degree. C.; d) transferring the substrates one-at-a-time to a film processing chamber; e) depositing one or more thin films on a substrate in said film processing chamber; f) transferring the substrate from said film processing chamber to a cooling chamber under vacuum and positioning the substrate in a cassette in said cooling chamber by supporting said substrate on dielectric supports mounted on thermally-conductive shelves of said cassette in said cooling chamber so the substrate is interleaved with said shelves, and a gap is formed between the substrate and said shelves; and g) radiantly cooling the substrate. 4. A method according to claim 3 wherein said cooling chamber is vented to atmospheric pressure when all of the substrates therein have been cooled. 5. A method according to claim 3 wherein one or more thin films are deposited by chemical vapor deposition. 