A multilayered suspension having a slider end and a termination end, the suspension being suitable for use in an information storage system slider-suspension assembly is provided. The suspension comprises a conductive lead structure having at least one conductor line contained in a patterned conductive layer formed over one or more layers. The conductive lead structure is suitable on the slider end for connection to transducer leads of a slider, and on the termination end for connection to arm-electronics termination pads. The suspension further comprises a fixture, formed from one or more layers, being substantially in the same plane as the termination end of the conductive lead structure and having one or more anchor tabs laminated to a layer of the conductive lead structure. The fixture is suitable for aligning the conductor lines to the termination pads by rotating the termination end of the conductive lead structure in the plane of the termination end.
Claims I claim: 1. An information storage system comprising: a storage medium having a plurality of tracks for recording of data; a slider having a read and/or write transducer formed therein and electrical leads terminating at termination pads; an actuator arm having arm-electronics termination pads; a multilayered suspension mechanically attached to the actuator arm and having a termination end and a slider end, the suspension maintaining the transducer in a closely spaced position relative to the storage medium during relative movement between the transducer and the storage medium, and further the suspension including: a conductive lead structure, formed from one or more layers of the multilayered suspension, having a termination end, wherein the conductive lead structure has at least one conductor line contained in a patterned conductive layer formed over one or more layers, and further the conductive lead structure being electrically attached to the electrical leads of the slider at one end, and being electrically attached to the actuator arm on the other end, the at least one conductor line being terminated at the arm-electronics termination pads, and a fixture, formed from one or more layers, being substantially in the same plane as the termination end of the conductive lead structure and having one or more anchor tabs attached to the conductive lead structure, wherein the fixture aligns the at least one conductor line to at least one termination pad of the arm-electronic termination pads during a termination process by rotating the termination end of the conductive lead structure relative to a slider end of the conductive lead structure along the plane of the termination end of the conductive lead structure; actuator means coupled to the actuator arm for moving the transducer to selected tracks on the storage medium; and means coupled to the termination pads for reading signals transmitted by the transducer representative of data bits recorded in the storage medium. 2. An information storage system according to claim 1, wherein the one or more anchor tabs are detachable from the conductive lead structure such that the fixture is removably attached to the conductive lead structure such that the fixture can be removed from the multilayered suspension after the plurality of conductor lines have been attached to the termination pads. 3. An information storage system according to claim 1, wherein the one or more anchor tabs are detachable by delaminating at least one layer of a respective one of the one or more anchor tabs from a layer of the conductive lead structure. 4. An information storage system according to claim 1, wherein at least one anchor tab of the one or more anchor tabs is a flexible anchor tab formed from one or more layers near the termination end of the multilayered suspension. 5. An information storage system according to claim 4, wherein two anchor tabs of the one or more anchor tabs are spaced such that a first tab of the two anchor tabs will buckle and a second tab of the two anchor tabs will be in tension when a clockwise rotational force is applied to the fixture, and wherein the first tab will be in tension and the second tab will buckle when a counter-clockwise rotational force is applied to the fixture. 6. An information storage system according to claim 1, wherein the fixture includes a hook arm extending along the end of the conductive lead structure at the termination end of the multilayered suspension, the hook arm being removably attached to the end of a respective conductor line of the at least one conductor line, and further wherein each respective conductor line is connected to the hook arm in a fixed and spaced relationship. 7. An information storage system according to claim 1, wherein the conductive lead structure has a bend region which allows it to be bent along a bend axis, the at least one conductor line running over the conductive lead structure such that the at least one conductor line traverses the bend region approximately perpendicular to the bend axis. 8. An information storage system according to claims 1, wherein the fixture contains holes suitable for manipulation by a robotic end effector. 9. An information storage system according to claim 1, wherein the means coupled to the termination pads provides signals to the transducer for writing data bits in the storage medium. 10. An information storage system according to claim 1, wherein the means coupled to the termination pads receives signals from the transducer that represent data bits recorded in the storage medium. 11. An information storage system according to claim 1, wherein the information storage system is an optical data storage system and the transducer is an optical transducer. 12. An information storage system according to claim 1, wherein the suspension is a multilayered laminated suspension. 13. An information storage system according to claim 1, wherein the transducer is a magnetic transducer and the information storage system is a magnetic storage system. 14. An information storage system according to claim 13, wherein the magnetic transducer is an inductive transducer. 15. An information storage system according to claim 13, wherein the transducer is an MR head. 16. An information storage system according to claim 13, wherein the means coupled to the termination pads detects resistance changes in a magnetoresistive material residing in the transducer responsive to magnetic fields representative of data bits recorded in the storage medium intercepted by a layer of the magnetoresistive material. 