A switching element defines a transmitting state and a reflecting state for a pair of intersecting waveguides that have a gap at their intersection. In the preferred embodiment, the switching element exhibits total internal reflection at the gap sidewall from one waveguide to the other when not in the transmitting state. In the transmitting state, index-matching liquid fills the gap, enabling light to continue in the original waveguide direction. The switching element may use ink jet techniques or bubble techniques to displace index-matching liquid. The index-matching fluid may be projected from a gap between the waveguides by a jet mechanism, or a vapor or dissolved gas bubble may be formed to fill the gap between the waveguides to provide the reflecting state for the switching element. Using either of the techniques, heaters are employed to initiate the switching operation. In some embodiments, more than one heater is utilized. In the preferred embodiment, waveguides are formed on one substrate and heaters are formed on another. Then the substrates are aligned and bonded together to position the heaters in very close proximity to the intersection between the waveguides. Preferably, the switching element is one element in a matrix of such elements for routing signals between arrays of input and output waveguides.
Claims We claim: 1. A switching element for use along an optical path comprising: a waveguide substrate having at least two optical waveguide segments on a first surface of said waveguide substrate, including first and second waveguide segments having ends that intersect a gap, said first and second waveguide segments being in fixed relation and generally parallel to said surface; a heater substrate having at least one heater, said heater substrate being joined to said waveguide substrate such that a first heater is aligned with said gap; and a liquid disposable within said gap, said liquid being responsive to said first heater, said liquid having an index of refraction such that optical transmission from said first waveguide segment to said second waveguide segment is determined by presence of said liquid within said gap. 2. The switching element of claim 1 wherein said first heater is in fixed relation to said waveguide and heater substrates to form a bubble within said liquid when said first heater is activated, thereby initiating displacement of said liquid relative to said gap. 3. The switching element of claim 1 wherein said heater substrate includes a jet mechanism that includes said first heater, said jet mechanism being aligned to project said liquid into said gap upon activation of said first heater. 4. The switching element of claim 1 wherein said heater substrate includes a jet mechanism that includes said first heater, said jet mechanism being aligned to eject said liquid from said gap upon activation of said first heater. 5. The switching element of claim 1 wherein said heater substrate is bonded to said waveguide substrate by a bonding layer. 6. The switching element of claim 1 wherein said gap has a sidewall at angles relative to axes of said first and second waveguide segments such that light reflected off said sidewall when said liquid is absent from said gap is diverted from said end of said first waveguide segment into said end of said second waveguide segment, said switching element further comprising a third waveguide segment that is axially aligned with said first waveguide segment such that light from said first waveguide segment enters said third waveguide segment when said liquid is within said gap. 7. The switching element of claim 1 wherein said first heater is in thermal communication with a volume of said fluid to selectively form a first vapor bubble in response to activation of said heater, said first vapor bubble undergoing condensation in response to deactivation of said heater, said heater being positioned relative to said gap such that said first vapor bubble forms within said gap. 8. The switching element of claim 7 further comprising a second heater in thermal communication with said volume of fluid to selectively form a second vapor bubble, thereby displacing said first vapor bubble from said gap. 9. The switching element of claim 1 wherein said gap is defined by a trench having sidewalls, and wherein with respect to at least one direction from the intersection between said first and second waveguide segments, said sidewalls increase in distance from each other with distance from said intersection. 10. The switching element of claim 1 wherein an angle of incidence of said first waveguide segment on said gap is generally 60 degrees. 11. A switching element for use along an optical path comprising: a waveguide substrate having at least two optical waveguide segments on a first surface of said waveguide substrate, including first and second waveguide segments having ends that intersect a gap, said first and second waveguide segments being in fixed relation and generally parallel to said surface; a heater substrate having first and second heaters, said heater substrate being joined to said waveguide substrate such that said first heater is aligned with said gap; and a liquid disposable within said gap, said liquid being responsive to activation of said first and second heaters, said liquid having an index of refraction such that optical transmission from said first waveguide segment to said second waveguide segment is determined by presence of said liquid within said gap; wherein said first and second heaters are controllable for generating a gas bubble and for selectively attracting said gas bubble, said first and second heaters being spaced apart and said first heater being positioned to attract said gas bubble to said end of said first waveguide segment. 12. A switching element for use along an optical path comprising: a substrate having a surface; a first optical waveguide segment having a first end that is in fixed relation to said substrate and directed generally parallel to said surface; a second optical waveguide segment having a second end that is in fixed relation to said substrate and directed generally parallel to said surface, said second end and said first end intersecting a gap; a liquid disposable within said gap, said liquid having an index of refraction such that optical transmission from said first optical waveguide segment to said second optical waveguide segment is determined by a presence of said liquid within said gap; and a jet mechanism aligned relative to said gap to displace said liquid in a direction generally perpendicular to said surface, said jet mechanism including a heater for generating thermal energy. 13. The switching element of claim 12 wherein said jet mechanism is directed at said gap to project said liquid into said gap upon activation of said heater. 14. The switching element of claim 13 further comprising a source of vacuum pressure selectively coupled to a side of said gap opposite to said jet mechanism, wherein liquid directed into said gap by said jet mechanism is removable via said selective coupling of said source to said gap. 15. The switching element of claim 12 wherein said jet mechanism is aligned to eject said liquid from said gap upon activation of said heater. 16. The switching element of claim 15 further comprising means for refilling said gap with liquid following said projection of liquid. 17. The switching element of claim 12 wherein said substrate is a first semiconductor heater substrate and said heater is a first microheater disposed on said first semiconductor heater substrate to initiate vaporization of said liquid such that said liquid is projected from said gap, said switching element further comprising a second semiconductor heater substrate and a second microheater, said first and second semiconductor heater substrates having a fixed parallel relationship, said second microheater being positioned on said second semiconductor heater substrate in thermal communication with a chamber formed on said second semiconductor heater substrate such that said second microheater selectively initiates vaporization of liquid within said chamber to project said liquid therefrom, said chamber being aligned relative to said first semiconductor heater substrate to project said liquid to fill said gap between said first and second optical waveguide segments, said waveguide segments being formed on a semiconductor waveguide substrate bonded between said first and second semiconductor heater substrates. 18. A switching arrangement for defining a transmitting state and a reflecting state comprising: a waveguide substrate having first and second waveguides aligned for optical communication when said transmitting state is defined, said first and second waveguides each having first and second waveguide segments, with each waveguide segment extending to a fluid chamber; a heater substrate bonded to said waveguide substrate, said heater substrate having heater means in thermal communication with said fluid chamber for forming one of a gas bubble and a vapor bubble between said waveguide segments of said first and second waveguides in response to activation of said heater means; and control means for activating and deactivating said heater means to initiate manipulation of fluid within said fluid chamber, said manipulation including an operation of thermal degassing and attraction if said bubble is a gas bubble and including an operation of vaporization and condensation if said bubble is a vapor bubble. 19. The switching arrangement of claim 18 wherein said fluid chamber is defined by at least one patterned layer on said substrate, said heater means including a first microheater electrically connected to said control means. 20. The switching arrangement of claim 19 further comprising a second microheater positioned relative to said fluid chamber to induce displacement of said bubble. 21. The switching element of claim 18 wherein said fluid chamber is defined by a trench having an increasing width in the direction of said intended bubble displacement. 22. An optical routing matrix comprising: a waveguide substrate; an array of generally parallel first waveguides extending parallel to said waveguide substrate to define first optical paths; an array of generally parallel second waveguides extending parallel to said waveguide substrate to define second optical paths that intersect said first optical paths at fluid chambers; and a heater substrate joined to said waveguide substrate, said heater substrate having microheaters in thermal communication with said fluid chambers to form bubbles within said fluid chambers, each fluid chamber being operatively associated with one of said microheaters and being configured such that fluidic changes as a result of activation of said operatively associated microheater determine a presence of fluid in said fluid chamber. 23. The matrix of claim 22 further comprising a refractive index matching liquid within at least some of said fluid chambers, wherein optical signals continue in a substantially linear manner through fluid chambers having said liquid and wherein said optical signals are reflected from a first waveguide to a second waveguide at fluid chambers having an absence of said liquid. 24. A method of fabricating a switching element for an optical path comprising steps of: forming a waveguide substrate having first and second intersecting waveguides; forming a trench at an intersection of said first and second waveguides a trench for receiving a liquid having an index of refraction such that optical transmission between said first and second waveguides is determined by presence of said liquid at said intersection; forming a heater substrate having a heating element; aligning said heater substrate with said waveguide substrate such that said heating element is aligned with said intersection; and bonding said aligned heater and waveguide substrates. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein said step of bonding said aligned heater and waveguide substrates together includes forming a bonding layer prior to bonding. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein said step that includes forming said bonding layer includes applying a generally planar layer of bonding material. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein said step that includes forming said bonding layer further includes patterning said planar layer to remove a portion aligned with said heating element. 