A hand-held controller wand including three angular rate measurement sensors is coupled to a computational device for translating roll, pitch, and yaw data into translation and rotation signals or commands that effect the movement of an external device's control point, which may be an end effector of a robot. A transformation matrix is continually updated from the angular rate information obtained from the hand-held controller. This matrix is used to update a direction vector. A value may be stored in the computation device corresponding to a predetermined speed of movement. A button or other convenient control allows the operator to control translational movement of the end effector or other controlled device in a direction defined by the orientation of the hand held controller at the predetermined speed, thus providing an intuitive control input for real-time direction and programming of movement. Because the present orientation of the wand is also known to the computational device, rotational movement may also be directed. Translation and orientation motion input may be provided simultaneously or separately, in accordance with the programming and/or under control of the computational device. The computational device translates the computed direction vector into signals corresponding to commands that depend upon the device being controlled; such translation is especially suited for robot controllers, because such controllers accept simple movement commands that may readily be computed from the direction vectors. However, the controller is also useful for other applications in which motion information is required, including the motion of real objects and virtual reality.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling a movement of a three-dimensional workpiece in space, comprising: (a) freely moveable means for detecting motion in a plurality of directions and for generating signals representative of said motion; (b) means, coupled to said means for detecting motion, for acquiring said signals representative of said motion and for generating sampled signals therefrom; (c) computing means coupled to said means for acquiring said signal for receiving and processing said sampled signals and for translating said sampled signals into command signals for moving the workpiece, and; (d) means responsive to said command signals for effecting the movement of the workpiece in response to said command signals. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said means for detecting motion comprises a plurality of angular rate sensors affixed to a wand, and said signals representative of said motion comprises signals representative of roll, pitch and yaw about orthogonal axes. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said means for detecting motion comprises calibration means that can be activated by a user for indicating that the orthogonal axes are aligned in a selected direction in space. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the computing means processes the sampled signals by computing a transformation matrix. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein said means for detecting motion further comprises command means that can be activated by a user for causing the computing means to direct motion of the workpiece in a selected direction determined by a present orientation of the orthogonal axes. 6. The system of claim 2, wherein said means for detecting motion further comprises command means that can be activated by a user for causing the computing means to direct motion of the workpiece in a selected direction determined by a present orientation of the orthogonal axes. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing by the computing means includes storing said command signals and sending said stored command signals to the means for effecting the movement of the workpiece so that said movement of the workpiece is effected at a later time. 8. A system for processing and generating movement commands to be sent to a robot controller controlling a movement of an end effector, the system comprising: (a) freely moveable means for detecting motion in a plurality of directions and for generating signals representative of said motion; (b) means, coupled to said means for detecting motion, for acquiring said signals representative of said motion and for generating sampled signals therefrom; and (c) computing means coupled to said means for acquiring said signal for receiving and processing said sampled signals and for translating said sampled signals into command signals to be sent to the robot controller. 9. A method for controlling a motion of an end effector of robot, comprising the steps of: (a) orienting a motion detector in a calibration direction; (b) setting an initial transformation matrix to an identity matrix while the motion detector is oriented in the calibration direction; (c) sampling and integrating roll, pitch and yaw signals from the motion detector to determine the orientation of the motion detector as a function of time; (d) updating the transformation matrix in accordance with the orientation of the motion detector; thereby generating a sequence of transformation matrices; and (e) directing a movement of the end effector in accordance with the sequence of transformation matrices. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of storing the transformation matrix to allow the movement of the end effector to occur at a later time. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of computing a sequence of direction vectors from an initial direction vector and the sequence of transformation matrices, and wherein the direction of the movement of the end effector in accordance with the sequence of transformation matrices comprises translational motion of the end effector in accordance with the sequence of direction vectors. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising the step of storing the transformation matrix to allow the movement of the end effector to occur at a later time. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the step of interrupting the directing of end effector movement in accordance with a state of a switch. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein the updating of the transformation matrix comprises a filtering of the translation matrix to restrict the direction of movement of the end effector. 15. The method of claim 9, wherein the movement of the end effector being directed includes the orientation of the end effector. 16. A device suitable for outputting both real-time and stored three-dimensional direction control signals, comprising: (a) a hand-held wand for defining a wand coordinate system; (b) a plurality of angle rate sensor means fixedly attached to the wand for generating orientation signals corresponding to a movement of the wand coordinate system; (c) operator input means for generating indication signals indicating that: (1) the wand is oriented in a calibration direction; and (2) the orientation of the wand is to be translated into a direction control signal; (d) a computing means responsive to the orientation of the wand and input signals for computing a sequence of transformation matrices therefrom, for computing a sequence of orientation vectors therefrom, and for storing and outputting three-dimensional control signals in accordance with a direction vector and the indication signals. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the computing means further comprises means for inputting and storing a value corresponding to a predetermined speed, and in which the computing means is responsive to the indication signals, the orientation signals and the stored value for outputting three dimensional control signals corresponding to a movement at the predetermined speed. 