A programmable or flexible fixture for holding a plurality of details comprising an assembly during assembly processes thereon comprising an elongated base supported in a predetermined position, a plurality of positioning units located at spaced locations along the base, each of the positioning units having a clamp adapted to engage the details, the positioning units being located to allow access to the details from two directions of movement of tools of assembly apparatus moving with respect to the workpiece during assembly processes thereon, a robot operatively associated with the positioning units for moving the positioning units relative to the base for accepting the various members of a family of details which all have the same configuration and differ by increments in size and for holding the details together as an assembly and holding the assembly in the proper detail location and assembly position for assembling, and an actuator for moving the clamp into and out of engagement with the details. A programmable or flexible assembly cell comprises at least one automatic assembly machine, each machine having operational parameters determined by the nature of the details to be assembled, at least one of the programmable or flexible fixtures for holding a plurality of details comprising an assembly, the fixture being capable of accepting a family of details, which all have the same configuration and differ by increments in size, the fixture having the plurality of movable positioning units at spaced locations along the fixture and each of the positioning units having the clamp adapted to engage the details, at least one robot for adjusting the fixture positioning units and for placing details and assemblies in the fixture and removing details and assemblies from the fixture, and a conveyor for transporting details to the cell and for transporting assemblies from the cell. A cell controller monitors information pertaining to the details and assemblies, monitors operation of the assembly machine and controls operation of the robot.
Claims We claim: 1. A flexible assembly cell comprising: a) at least one automatic assembly machine for performing assembling operations on details, each machine having operational parameters determined by the nature of the details to be assembled; b) at least one flexible fixture for holding a plurality of details comprising an assembly during operation thereon by said at least one automatic assembly machine, said at least one flexible fixture being capable of accepting a family of details which all have substantially the same configuration and differ by increments in size, said at least one flexible fixture having a plurality of movable positioning means at spaced locations along said flexible fixture and each of said positioning means having holding means adapted to engage said details; c) controlled means separate from said flexible fixture for moving each of said fixture positioning means in relation to said flexible fixture linearly along a plane and rotatably about an axis substantially perpendicular to said plane to a predetermined location as determined by the nature of the particular details to be held in said flexible fixture and for placing details and assemblies in said flexible fixture and removing details and assemblies from said flexible fixture; and d) means for conveying details to said cell. 2. The flexible assembly cell according to claim 1, further including means for conveying assemblies from said cell. 3. The flexible assembly cell according to claim 1, further including cell controller means for monitoring information pertaining to said details and assemblies and for monitoring operation of said machine and said controlled means. 4. The flexible assembly cell according to claim 1, further including transport means operatively associated with said conveying means for holding said parts in a fixed and defined location therein prior to handling by said controlled means, said transport means being capable of accommodating all members of said family of details. 5. The flexible assembly cell according to claim 1, wherein said automatic assembly machine comprises an automatic fastening machine for installing fasteners in the details. 6. The flexible assembly cell according to claim 1, wherein said conveying means comprises conveyor means extending between said cell and locations spaced therefrom. 7. The flexible assembly cell according to claim 1, wherein said controlled means comprises robotic means operatively associated with said cell. 8. The flexible assembly cell according to claim 7, wherein said robotic means comprises: a) motive means for moving said robotic means along defined paths within said cell, said paths being in two orthogonal directions in a plane and in a third direction normal to said plane; and b) manipulative means adapted to engage said fixture positioning means for adjusting same and adapted to grasp said parts and assemblies for placing in and removing from said fixture. 9. The flexible assembly cell according to claim 8, wherein said manipulative means includes means for providing at least three separate movements about at least three axes. 