A fluid actuated gripper mechanism with opposed gripper slides received on ways of a housing and actuated by opposed pistons received in a common bore. Each piston is transfixed by a coupling pin secured to one slide. Movement of the pistons and slides is synchronized by a lever pivotally mounted in the housing and having equally radially spaced apart and parallel elongate cam slots in which the coupling pins are received.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fluid actuated gripper mechanism of the type having opposed gripper devices mounted for sliding relation to and from a gripping position which comprises: (a) a housing, (b) opposed gripper slides mounted on said housing for lineal reciprocation, (c) a piston bore extending axially of said housing adjacent said slides, (d) opposed pistons in said bore, (e) coupling pins coupling said pistons to said slides, each said coupling pin transfixed one piston and has a first end extending into a gripper slide to cause simultaneous motion of said one piston and slide, and (f) a synchronizing lever located in said body, centrally mounted to pivot on an axis perpendicular to the axis of said piston bore, said lever having parallel cam slots, one at each end, angled to the path of lineal reciprocation of said slides, and a second end of each said transfer pin is located in a respective cam slot to provide simultaneous synchronous motion of said pistons and slides when actuated, wherein fluid directed to said pistons actuates said slides simultaneously. 2. A fluid actuated gripper mechanism as defined in claim 1 in which an elongate recess is formed in said housing adjacent said piston bore, a central pivot in said recess mounting said lever in said recess and a closure plate closing said recess to avoid contamination of said lever and pins. 3. A fluid actuated gripper mechanism as defined in claim 1 which also comprises end plates on said housing to close said piston bore, and passages in at least one of said end plates and said housing to direct operating fluid to the outer ends of said pistons to produce a gripping motion and to the inner ends to produce a release motion. 4. A fluid actuated gripper mechanism as defined in claim 1 which also comprises a clearance slot associated with each coupling pin through which it extends adjacent its associated slide, each said clearance slot underlying and being closed by its associated slide regardless of the position of its associated piston to prevent contaminants from entering the piston bore through said clearance slot. 5. A fluid actuated gripper mechanism comprising: a housing having sides and a pair of opposed ends, a slot in said housing opening through a side and extending longitudinally through the housing and opening into its opposed ends to provide ways for slides, a pair of generally opposed gripper slides received in said slot for linear reciprocal movement, a bore extending axially through the housing and opening into the opposed ends of the housing, a pair of opposed pistons received in said bore, a synchronizing lever carried by the housing and centrally mounted to pivot on an axis perpendicular to the axis of the bore, said lever having a pair of parallel cams one adjacent each end of the lever, said cams being inclined to the path of reciprocal motion of the slides, and a separate pin extending transversely through each piston and having a first end coupled with an associated gripper slide to cause simultaneous motion of the one piston and associated gripper slide, and a second end engaging with an associated one of the cams of the lever to provide simultaneous synchronous motion of the pistons and slides when actuated, whereby fluid directed to the pistons synchronously moves the slides simultaneously. 6. A fluid actuated gripper mechanism as defined in claim 5 in which a recess is formed in said housing adjacent said bore, a central pivot in said recess mounts said lever in said recess and a closure plate closes said recess to avoid contamination of said lever and pins. 7. A fluid actuated gripper mechanism as defined in claim 5 which also comprises end plates on said housing to close said bore, and passages in at least one of said end plates and said housing to direct operating fluid to the outer ends of said pistons to produce a gripping motion and to the inner ends to produce a release motion. 8. A fluid actuated gripper mechanism as defined in claim 5 which also comprises a clearance slot in said housing and associated with each coupling pin through which it extends adjacent its associated slide, each said clearance slot underlying and being closed by its associated slide regardless of the position of its associated piston to prevent contaminants from entering the piston bore through said clearance slot. 