A variable form spray system includes a robot manipulator, a masking tool assembly integrated with the manipulator, sealer supply hardware which supplies spray material to the manipulator and sealer recovery hardware which recovers material sprayed and skived by the masking tool assembly. Spray pattern form is controlled by collecting overspray using adjustable skive manifolds of the assembly on each side of the spray pattern which function to vacuum off the edges of the airless spray pattern. The positions of the skive manifolds are programmable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for spraying a material in a spray pattern having a variable form, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing a material supply means for supplying a material which is a fluid; b. providing a material spray means for spraying the material from the material supply means along a spray path in a spray pattern having an initial width at a workpiece position spaced from the material spray means along the spray path; c. providing a masking means for obstructing a selected portion of the spray path; d. operating the material spray means to spray the material along the spray path in the spray pattern; e. generating a first set of control signals for moving the masking means to obtain a desired width of the spray pattern at the workpiece position; and f. moving the masking means relative to the spray path in response to the first set of control signals to obstruct a selected portion of the spray path of the material to reduce the initial width of the spray pattern to the desired width at the workpiece position. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the masking means includes a masking plate profiled to obstruct the selected portion of the spray path to obtain the desired width spray pattern at the workpiece position. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the masking means includes two masking elements and said step f. includes coordinating movement of the two masking elements relative to the spray path in response to the first set of control signals. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the masking means includes a set of masking plates, each of the masking plates being responsive to one of the control signals of the first set of control signals to independently obstruct the selected portion of the spray path of the material to vary a profile of the spray pattern at the workpiece position. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the first set of control signals includes a single control signal. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the first set of control signals includes a plurality of control signals. 7. The method according to claim 1 further comprising the step of collecting in the masking means overspray material obstructed by the masking means in the selected portion of the spray path during spraying of the material along the spray path. 8. The method according to claim 7 further comprising the step of returning the collected overspray material from the masking means to the material supply means for reuse during said step d. 9. The method according to claim 7 further comprising the steps of: evacuating the collected overspray material from the masking means; and storing the evacuated overspray material in a recovery tank. 10. The method according to claim 9 further comprising the steps of: generating a sense signal when the amount of the overspray material stored in the recovery tank exceeds a predetermined high level; and pumping the stored overspray material from the recovery tank to the material supply means in response to the generation of the sense signal. 11. A method for spraying a material in a spray pattern having variable width and for collecting overspray material, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing a material supply means for supplying a material which is a fluid; b. spraying the material along a spray path in a spray pattern having an initial width at a workpiece position along the spray path; c. generating a first set of control signals for moving a masking means to obtain a desired width of the spray pattern at the workpiece position; d. providing masking means for selectively obstructing the spray path of the material; e. moving the masking means relative to the spray path in response to the first set of control signals to obstruct a selected portion of the spray path adjacent a first side of the spray pattern to reduce the initial width of the spray pattern at the workpiece position; and f. collecting a first portion of overspray material obstructed by the masking means adjacent the first side of the spray pattern during the step of spraying. 12. The method according to claim 11 further comprising the steps of: generating a second set of control signals for moving the masking means; moving the masking means relative to the spray path in response to the second set of control signals to obstruct a selected portion of the spray path adjacent a second side of the spray pattern to reduce the initial width of the spray pattern to the desired width at the workpiece position; and collecting a second portion of excess material obstructed by the masking means adjacent the second side of the spray pattern during the step of spraying. 13. The method according to claim 12 further comprising the step of returning the collected overspray material to the material supply means for reuse during said step b. 14. The method according to claim 12 further comprising the steps of: evacuating the collected overspray material from the masking means; and storing the evacuated overspray material in a recovery tank. 15. The method according to claim 14 further comprising the steps of: generating a sense signal when the mount of the overspray material stored in the recovery tank exceeds a predetermined high level; and pumping the stored overspray material from the recovery tank to the material supply means in response to the generation of the sense signal. 16. The method according to claim 12 wherein the second set of control signals includes a single control signal. 17. The method according to claim 12 wherein the second set of control signals includes a plurality of control signals. 18. A method for the programmable definition of edges of a desired spray pattern of a fluid material and the recovery of overspray material, the method comprising the steps of: a. providing a plurality of skive manifolds each for obstructing an associated selected portion of a spray path of fluid material being sprayed; b. providing a storage tank; c. controlling a position of each of the skive manifolds relative to the spray path to obstruct the associated selected portion of the spray path outside a periphery of a desired spray pattern; d. collecting overspray fluid material obstructed by the skive manifolds in the selected portions of the spray path during spraying of the fluid material along the spray path; and e. directing the collected overspray fluid material to flow into the storage tank. 