The invention comprises one or more electro-mechanical robots in human form designed to resemble hockey player(s). The robots are suspended from a movable overhead track and powered by motorized cars along a variety of courses, all of which causes the robots to move at the speed(s) and follow the skating pathways used in hockey plays and maneuvers. The elevation, speed and pathways followed by the robots are selected from a computer menu. The robots may be used for instructing and training skaters in the skills, maneuvers and plays essential to the sport of ice (and roller) hockey. The robots are designed to provide a teaching/learning tool and to be used in conditions which realistically resemble those that skaters/players encounter in real hockey games. Robots are equipped with sensor chips which, when impacted by the skater, will provide measurable data regarding the skater's performance during training sessions. Feedback will also be provided via video recordings of the training sessions and by other means, such as digitized images of the skater(s) and robot(s). The overhead tracks from which the robots are suspended may be raised to a position far above the ice surface when robots are not in use, so as to provide a clear rink to be used for other purposes.
Claims I claim: 1. An electro-mechanical robot comprising: an armature comprising a mechanically-resilient material covered by a high impact padding; said armature and said padding in combination resembling a human figure; suspension means coupled to the armature at a distal end; and movement means coupled to a proximal end of the suspension means for enabling movement of the armature at variable speeds along an electrified track and above a hockey surface. 2. The electro-mechanical robot of claim 1 further comprising an electrified mesh of sensor chips disposed about the armature for measuring impact when contacted. 3. The electro-mechanical robot of claim 2 further comprising means for transmitting data from the sensor chips to a computer. 4. The electro-mechanical robot of claim 3 further comprising means for storing the sensor data and means for displaying the sensor data on a computer screen. 5. The electro-mechanical robot of claim 4 further comprising means for recording video images, said images being displayed concurrently with said sensor data on said computer screen. 6. The electro-mechanical robot of claim 1 further comprising a computer for controlling movement of the robots along the electrified track. 7. The electro-mechanical robot of claim 1 further comprising: a hockey uniform disposed about the armature and padding; and a pair of arms coupled to the armature and adapted for holding a hockey stick; said arms being movable relative to said armature for simulating actual hockey player stickholding positions; a video camera coupled to the armature for capturing video images of interactions between the robot and activity on the hockey rink. 8. The electro-mechanical robot of claim 1 wherein the mechanically resilient material is selected from a group of materials consisting of plastic, metal, metal alloys, and composite materials. 9. The electro-mechanical robot of claim 1 wherein the movement means enables movement of the armature in horizontal and vertical directions relative to the hockey surface. 10. The electro-mechanical robot of claim 1 wherein the movement means comprises a motorized car. 