Target based machine vision useful for alignment of sensors and other objects affixed to structures, robots and the like. While addressed particularly to alignment of machine vision systems relative to structures, the techniques disclosed are useful with a multitude of different sensors and objects.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for correcting location of a tool with respect to objects wherein each object is individually conveyed from station to station in a line, comprising: a simulation of the objects conveyed, electro-optical means for sensing an initial position of a tool with respect to the simulation in one of the stations, and means for determining from the detected initial tool position relative to the simulation, a corrected location for said tool. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, and further including means for correcting the location of said tool from the initial position to the corrected position. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said simulation is a CAD data base of the object. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said simulation is an artifact having datums in known locations in space. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein a conveying means is provided for conveying the objects, and said conveying means is a pallet. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein a conveying means is provided for conveying the objects, and said conveying means is an automated guided vehicle. 7. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said object is a vehicle body or subassembly thereof. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said sensor means utilizes at least one matrix array TV camera. 9. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein a conveying means is provided for conveying the objects, and said sensor means is located on said conveying means for conveyance with the simulation. 10. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said sensor means is located within the one of said stations. 11. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said tool is positioned on a base in the one of said stations near said line. 12. Apparatus according to claim 11 wherein said sensor means includes an electro-optical sensor located on the tool, and wherein said sensor is positioned to view said simulation and subsequently the object. 13. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said tool is selected from a group which is comprised of object locators, joining devices, sensing devices, measuring devices, and robots. 14. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein a plurality of tools are located in the one of the stations. 15. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said sensor means includes an electro-optical sensor located on said simulation, and said sensor is positioned to view said tool. 16. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said sensor means includes an electro-optical sensor located to view said simulation and said tool. 17. A method for correcting a location of a tool with respect to objects which are each individually conveyed from station to station in a line, comprising the steps of: providing a simulation of the object, electro-optically sensing an initial position of a tool with respect to the simulation located in one of the stations, and determining from the detected initial tool position relative to the simulation, a corrected location for the tool. 18. A method for correcting a location of a tool as claimed in claim 17 and further including the step of correcting the location of the tool based on the corrected location determined. 19. A method for correcting a location of a tool as claimed in claim 17 wherein said simulation is provided as a CAD data base of the object. 20. A method for correcting a location of a tool as claimed in claim 17 wherein said simulation is provided as an artifact of the object having datums in known locations in space. 21. A method for correcting a location of a tool as claimed in claim 17 and further including the step of conveying a sensor used in the sensing step to a subsequent station and repeating the sensing and determining steps at the subsequent station. 