Radomes having complexly curved, frequency selective surfaces are made with a high degree of precision to assure part-to-part uniformity in electrical performance using a three-dimensional conformal mask and a precision etch process. The mask has a transparent substrate and a patterned opaque layer on the substrate. We expose photosensitive material overlying a thin film metal layer (generally deposited on a dielectric) through the mask. Metal exposed by patterning the photosensitive material is etched with a CuCl.sub.2 and chloride salt solution, and the remainder of the layer of photosensitive material is removed to complete the patterning.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for making precision radomes having electrical transmitting and receiving bands within at least one narrow predetermined frequency range because of at least one accurately made frequency selective surface in the radome, comprising the steps of: a) coating a copper film with photoresist; b) exposing predetermine potions in the photoresist using a conformal mask seated adjacent the copper film to block exposing radiation: from reaching selected portions of the photoresist; c) removing the exposed or unexposed photoresist to expose portions of the copper in a pattern to provide a frequency response of the radome within the frequency range; d) etching the copper to define elements to accuracies of .+-.0.25 mil using an aqueous copper chloride/chloride salt etchant; e) removing the remaining photoresist to yield a patterned copper film responsive to the frequency range; and f) reusing the mask. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the film has complex curvature in the patterned portion. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the copper chloride/chloride salt etchant comprises: a) an effective amount of cupric chloride in initially deionized water to form an acid capable of etching the copper; and b) at least about 125 gm/l chloride salt to negate migration effects. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein etching a copper film comprises the step of: immersing the film in an aqueous etchant solution of cupric chloride and sodium chloride for a period of time sufficient to achieve the desired etching of the copper. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the solution quantity is about 0.5 ft.sup.3 etchant solution/ft.sup.2 copper. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the solution is quiescent during the immersion. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the immersion time is about 25-30 minutes. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the copper is vapor deposited onto a substrate. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the copper thickness is about 0.1 mil and the solution quantity is about 0.5 ft.sup.3 etchant solution/ft.sup.2 copper film. 10. The product obtainable by the process of claim 1. 11. A radome using the product of claim 10. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the mask mates with the copper film, wherein both the mask and copper film have a complex curvature, and wherein the mask includes a patterned coating adhered to a substrate that is transparent to the exposing radiation. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the mask coating is adjacent to the copper film when the mask and film mate. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the exposing radiation is collimated light in a frequency bandwidth that will expose the photoresist. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the elements are at least two different sizes so that the patterned film is responsive to at least two different frequency ranges. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the elements are slots in an otherwise continuous copper film. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the elements are patches that are electrically isolated and adhered to a dielectric substrate. 18. The product obtainable by the process of claim 16. 19. The product obtainable by the process of claim 17. 20. A method for making precision radomes having electrical transmitting and receiving bands within at least one narrow, predetermined frequency range because of at least one accurately made frequency selective surface in the radome, comprising the steps of: a) vapor depositing about a 0.1 mil thin film of copper on a substrate having a complex curvature corresponding to the shape of the radome; b) coating the copper film with photoresist; c) exposing predetermined portions of the photoresist using a conformal photomask having complex curvature, the mask having transparent portions on the complexly curved surface allowing transmission of ultraviolet radiation through the mask to reach the photoresist; d) removing portions of the exposed photoresist to reveal underlying portions of the copper film in a predetermined pattern of crosses or Y's over the complexly curved surface; e) immersing the patterned photoresist-copper film-substrate combination in a quiescent tank having an aqueous solution of cupric chloride and chloride salt to etch the exposed copper precisely to within an accuracy of .+-.0.25 mil to yield a patterned copper film having a bandwidth sensitivity corresponding to the narrow, predetermined frequency range, wherein (i) the chloride salt is present in sufficient amount to negate migration effects in the solution; and (ii) the immersion time is about 25-30 minutes using about 0.5 ft.sup.3 solution/ft.sup.2 copper etched; f) rinsing the etched copper film; g) removing the remaining photoresist; and h) reusing the photomask. 