An apparatus and method are provided for manufacturing articles, such as syringe barrels, substantially free from contaminants. The apparatus is an enclosure defining at least a class 100 and MCB-3 environment, and includes a molding isolation module and a packaging isolation module. Any contaminants that may exist within the enclosure are removed by the use of horizontal and vertical laminar airflows directed into air filter units. Further, the molding temperature may be selected such that it renders the fabricated articles substantially free from contaminants. The molding isolation module and packaging isolation module keep the fabricated articles substantially free from contaminants from the time the articles are molded to the time the articles are placed in sealed containers for shipment.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for manufacturing and packaging a plurality of articles substantially free from contaminants, the apparatus comprising: a first enclosure defining an environment; a second enclosure containing air and defining an environment of at least class 100,000, wherein said second enclosure contains said first enclosure and the environment of said first enclosure is cleaner than the environment of said second enclosure; an air filter disposed between said first enclosure and said second enclosure to filter air from the second enclosure before such air enters the first enclosure; at least one molding module located in said first enclosure, said molding module including at least one mold for molding the articles; and at least one packaging module located in said first enclosure for packaging the molded articles. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising an air flow producing device to produce laminar air flow through said air filter and through said first enclosure to remove contaminants from said first enclosure. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the laminar air flow within the said first enclosure is horizontal laminar air flow. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least one mold includes heat-generating means operable to render the molded articles substantially free from contaminants. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further including at least one molding machine containing molding material, said at least one molding machine located within said second enclosure and connected to said at least one molding station by an injection molding gate coupled to said at least one mold, wherein said injection molding gate forces the molding material into said at least one mold and includes heat-generating means operable to render said molding material substantially free from contaminants. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first enclosure is at least a class 100 environment. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first enclosure is at least a MCB-3 environment. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said mold is a plastic injection mold. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for removing the molded articles from the mold. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said removing means comprises a robot located within said first enclosure. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said removing means comprises a mechanical arm located within said first enclosure. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first enclosure further includes at least one inspection station, and a conveyor disposed between said at least one molding module and said at least one inspection station. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first enclosure further includes at least one inspection station and means for creating a substantially vertical laminar air flow at said at least one inspection station. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for creating a substantially vertical laminar air flow within said at least one packaging module. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said articles are syringe barrels. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first enclosure includes at least one inspection station located intermediate said at least one molding module and said at least one packaging module, and at least one holder magazine disposed at said at least one inspection station for supplying a plurality of article holders. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising a holder rail disposed between said at least one inspection station and said at least one packaging module, said holder rail adaptable to hold and transfer a plurality of said article holders. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first enclosure further comprises at least one inspection station intermediate said at least one molding module and said at least one packaging module, said at least one inspection station including at least one article accumulator for accumulating molded articles pending inspection. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first enclosure further comprises at least one inspection station located intermediate said at least one molding module and said at least one packaging module, and a sidewall at said at least one inspection station including a transparent panel such that the articles may be inspected from outside of the first enclosure. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said sidewall of said first enclosure defines an opening below said transparent panel for the ingress of the arms of an inspector to remove scrap from the molded articles and to reject defective ones of the molded articles. 21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said sidewall of said first enclosure defines an opening containing access to a glove unit capable of allowing the arms of an inspector in to remove scrap from the molded articles and to reject defective ones of the molded articles without physically contacting said molded articles. 22. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first enclosure further includes a sidewall disposed adjacent said packaging module, and a transparent panel in said sidewall permitting the observation of packaging of the molded articles. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said sidewall further includes an opening below said transparent panel for the insertion of an arm of a packager into the first enclosure in order to perform a packaging operation. 24. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said sidewall further includes an opening containing access to a glove unit for the insertion of an arm of a packager into the first enclosure in order to perform a packaging operation. 25. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said packaging module includes means for keeping a plurality of bags inside said first enclosure, said bags used to package said molded articles, and means for sealing said bags. 26. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said packaging module includes a perforated work surface, said apparatus further including means for forcing a substantially vertical laminar air flow through said perforations in said work surface. 27. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the mold comprises a first platen and a second platen mateable with said first platen, means for bringing together said first platen and said second platen prior to molding articles therein, means for spacing apart said first and second platens from each other after molding in order to extract molded articles; and wherein the apparatus further comprises; means for forcing cleaned air through said molding module in order to remove contaminants; an opening in an end wall located adjacent said first and second platens for receiving air forced through said molding module while said first and second platens are spaced apart; and a conduit located adjacent said first and second platens for receiving air forced through said molding module when said first and second platens are brought together. 28. The apparatus of claim 27 further comprising means mounted on said first and second platens for diverting said air into said conduit. 29. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a lubrication module located intermediate said molding module and said packaging module. 30. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a filling module located intermediate said molding module and said packaging module. 