A planarizing machine and a method for reducing the number of residual particles on wafers and other substrates after CMP processing. In one embodiment, the planarizing machine has a platen mounted to a support structure, a polishing pad positioned on the platen, and a wafer carrier with a chuck. The polishing pad has a planarizing surface facing away from the platen, and the wafer carrier assembly is adapted to hold the backside of the wafer in the chuck and engage the front face of the wafer with the planarizing surface of the polishing pad. The planarizing machine also has a wafer loading assembly with a pedestal upon which the wafer is placed to load and unload the wafer to the chuck. The pedestal is preferably connected to an actuator that raises and lowers the pedestal with respect to the wafer carrier assembly. A particle barrier film is positioned in the chuck to engage the backside of the wafer and/or on the pedestal to engage the front face of the wafer. The particle barrier film is preferably a substantially non-porous film that does not entrap residual particles. Thus, substantially all of the residual particles are readily removed from the particle barrier film by a wash fluid to reduce the number of residual particles on surfaces of the CMP machine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A planarizing machine for removing material from a substrate having a backside and a front face, comprising: a platen mounted to a support structure; a polishing pad positioned on the platen, the polishing pad having a polishing surface facing away from the platen; a substrate carrier assembly having a chuck with mounting cavity, the backside of the substrate being removably attachable to the chuck in the mounting cavity, and the chuck being movable to position the substrate over the polishing pad and engage the front face of the substrate with the polishing surface of the polishing pad, wherein at least one of the platen and the chuck moves with respect to the other to impart relative motion between the substrate and the polishing pad; a substrate loading/unloading pedestal positioned proximate to the substrate carrier assembly and having an upwardly facing mounting surface; and a particle barrier film positioned on at least one of the substrate pedestal and the mounting cavity, the barrier film having a substantially non-porous top surface from which residual particles may be readily removed by a wash fluid. 2. The planarizing machine of claim 1 wherein the particle barrier film is positioned on the mounting surface of the pedestal to engage the front face of the substrate in a loading/unloading position. 3. The planarizing machine of claim 1 wherein the barrier film comprises a closed-cell foam. 4. The planarizing machine of claim 3 wherein the closed-cell foam comprises closed-cell polyurethane. 5. The planarizing machine of claim 1 wherein the particle barrier film is positioned in the mounting cavity of the substrate carrier to engage the backside of the substrate. 6. A method for handling substrates in chemical-mechanical planarization processes, comprising the steps of: providing a substrate loading/unloading pedestal having a mounting surface and a particle barrier film positioned on the mounting surface, the particle barrier film having a top surface with a topography upon which residual particles reside so that a substantial portion of each particle is above the topography of the top surface; and detaching residual particles from the particle barrier with a medium that engages exposed portions of particles, the top surface of the barrier film supporting the residual particles so that the detaching step removes substantially all of the residual particles from the particle barrier film. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising placing a front face of a substrate on the barrier film after the detaching step in preparation of loading/unloading the substrate to a substrate carrier of a chemical-mechanical planarization machine. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the detaching step comprises washing the particles from the barrier film. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the washing step comprises impinging a fluid stream onto exposed portions of the residual particles. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the washing step comprises spraying a solution having a desired pH on the exposed portions of residual particles. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein the washing step comprises blowing air on the exposed portions of residual particles. 12. The method of claim 8 further comprising engaging a backside of the substrate with a mounting surface of the substrate carrier and lifting the substrate from the barrier film. 13. A method of chemical-mechanical planarization of a substrate having a backside and a front face, comprising: providing a substrate loading/unloading pedestal having a mounting surface and a particle barrier film positioned on the mounting surface, the particle barrier having a top surface with a topography that supports residual particles to expose side portions of the residual particles to a wash fluid; detaching residual particles from the particle barrier with a medium that engages exposed portions of particles, the top surface of the barrier film supporting the residual particles so that the detaching step removes substantially all of the residual particles from the particle barrier film; placing a front face of a substrate on the barrier film after the detaching step; attaching a backside of the substrate to a chuck of a substrate carrier and removing the substrate from the barrier film; pressing the front face of the substrate against a planarizing surface of a polishing pad; and moving at least one of the substrate and the polishing pad with respect to the other to remove material from the front face of the substrate. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: disengaging the substrate from the polishing pad; repositioning the front face of the substrate on the barrier film; and disconnecting the substrate from the chuck. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the detaching step comprises washing the particles from the barrier film. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the washing step comprises impinging a fluid stream onto exposed portions of the residual particles. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the washing step comprises spraying a solution having a desired pH on the exposed portions of residual particles. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein the washing step comprises blowing air on the exposed portions of the residual particles. 