A system for interfacing an optical disk autochanger having a robot and a plurality of disk drives to a host includes a master SCSI bus, a subordinate SCSI bus, a SCSI multiplexer and a move controller. The master SCSI bus is connected to the host. The subordinate SCSI bus is connected to the plurality of disk drives. The multiplexer is connected between the master SCSI bus and the subordinate SCSI bus. The multiplexer transfers communications between the host and a selected disk drive. The move controller receives jukebox control commands from the host and selects the disk drive based on the jukebox control commands.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for interfacing an optical disk autochanger having a robot and a plurality of disk drives to a host, comprising: (a) a master SCSI bus connected to the host; (b) a subordinate SCSI bus connected to the plurality of disk drives; (c) multiplexer means, connected between said master SCSI bus and said subordinate SCSI bus, for transferring communications between the host and a selected one of the plurality of disk drives; and (d) control means, coupled to said master SCSI bus and said multiplexer means, for receiving jukebox control commands from the host and for selecting said selected one of the plurality of disk drives based on said jukebox control commands. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said multiplexer means comprises: selection means for connecting the host to said selected one of the plurality of disk drives; and re-selection means for allowing said selected one of the plurality of disk drives to re-select the host. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said move control means generates a subordinate SCSI ID number for said selected one of the plurality of disk drives based on said jukebox control commands. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said selection means comprises: (a) transceiver means for connecting said master SCSI bus and to said subordinate SCSI bus; (b) master selection machine means, connected to said master SCSI bus, for receiving a master bus Identify Message Out command from the host; (c) subordinate selection machine means, connected to said subordinate SCSI bus, for receiving said subordinate SCSI ID number and for using said subordinate SCSI ID number to select one of the plurality of disk drives on said subordinate SCSI bus; and (d) switch control machine means, connected to said master selection machine means, said subordinate selection machine means, and said transceiver means, for causing said transceiver means to connect communications between the host and said selected one of the plurality of disk drives. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein said re-selection means comprises: (a) subordinate re-selection machine means, connected to said subordinate SCSI bus, for receiving from said selected one of the plurality of disk drives, an Identify Message In command having a subordinate SCSI ID, and for convening said subordinate SCSI ID to a master SCSI ID; (b) master re-selection machine means, connected to said master SCSI bus, for using said master SCSI ID from said subordinate re-selection machine means to re-select the host; and (c) switch control machine means, connected to said master reselection machine means, said subordinate re-selection machine means, and said transceiver means, for causing said transceiver means to connect communications between the host and said selected one of the plurality of disk drives. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said multiplexer means comprises: (a) transceiver means for connecting said master SCSI bus and to said subordinate SCSI bus; (b) master selection machine means, connected to said master SCSI bus, for receiving a master SCSI ID and for acknowledging receipt of said master SCSI ID; (c) subordinate selection machine means, connected to said subordinate SCSI bus, for receiving a subordinate SCSI ID from said move control means and for using said subordinate SCSI ID to select one of the plurality of disk drives on said subordinate SCSI bus; and (d) switch control machine means, connected to said master selection machine means, said subordinate selection machine means, and said transceiver means, for causing said transceiver means to connect communications between the host and said selected one of the plurality of disk drives. 7. A system for interfacing an autochanger having a robot and a plurality of media drives to a host, comprising: (a) a master bus connected to the host; (b) a subordinate bus connected to the plurality of media drives; (c) multiplexer means, connected between said master bus and said subordinate bus, for transferring communications between the host and a selected one of the plurality of media drives; and (d) multiplexer control means, coupled to said master bus and said multiplexer means, for receiving autochanger control commands from the host and for selecting said selected one of the plurality of media drives based on said autochanger control commands. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said multiplexer means comprises: first means for receiving communications initiated by the host via said master bus; second means for receiving communications initiated by one of the plurality of media drives via said subordinate bus; and switch means for connecting said master bus to said subordinate bus to transfer communications between the host and said selected one of the plurality of media drives. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said multiplexer control means comprises: autochanger control means for receiving autochanger control commands from the host, for tracking which media volumes are in which of the plurality of media drives, and for loading a requested media volume into one of the plurality of media drives in response to said autochanger control commands if said requested media volume is not already in one of said plurality of media drives; and switch control means for controlling said first means, said second means and said switch means to transfer communications between the host and said selected one of the plurality of media drives. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said multiplexer control means generates a subordinate address for said selected one of the plurality of media drives based on said jukebox control commands. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said first means comprises: (a) master selection machine means, connected to said master bus, for receiving a master bus command from the host; and (b) subordinate selection machine means, connected to said subordinate bus, for receiving said subordinate address and for using said subordinate address to select one of the plurality of media drives on said subordinate bus. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said second means comprises: (a) subordinate re-selection machine means, connected to said subordinate bus, for receiving from said selected one of the plurality of media drives a subordinate address and for converting said subordinate address to a master address; (b) master re-selection machine means, connected to said master bus, for using said master address from said subordinate re-selection machine means to re-select the host. 