An assembly is provided for processing container ends received from at least two sources by loading the container ends into trays and stacking the trays. The assembly has a transport device capable of engaging sticks of container ends in a pick-up area and providing the sticks to a plurality of corresponding loading areas such that sticks from different sources are placed in different loading areas. Sticks are provided to the pick-up area by supply subassemblies which receive continuous arrays of container ends from the sources, separate the arrays into sticks, and provide the sticks to the pick-up area. The tray loading subassembly is further capable of engaging and transporting an empty tray from a stack of empty trays to the loading areas such that a stack of trays may be formed. Once the desired stack of trays is formed, a discharge subassembly transports the stack from the loading area to a discharge area for subsequent removal and transport to a desired location.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assembly for processing container ends received from at least two sources, said assembly comprising: a pick-up area for receiving a plurality of container ends from a first source and second source, different from the first source; a first loading area for accommodating a plurality of container ends and comprising a first tray; a second loading area for accommodating a plurality of container ends and comprising a second tray, said first and second trays being positioned so as to be simultaneously accessible for receiving container ends; and a moving means for engaging container ends from the first source at said pick-up area and depositing the container ends at said first loading area and in said first tray to form a first load and for engaging container ends from the second source at said pick-up area and depositing the container ends at said second loading area and in said second tray to form a second load, wherein container ends from said first source are only deposited at said first loading area, and wherein container ends from said second source are only deposited at said second loading area, said moving means comprising a common pick-up head which interfaces with container ends from each of said first and second sources and moves said container ends to said first and second loading areas, respectively. 2. An assembly, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a first supply means for receiving an array of container ends from the first source, separating the container ends into sticks, and providing the sticks to said pick-up area; and a second supply means for receiving an array of container ends from the second source, separating the container ends into sticks, and providing the sticks to said pick-up area. 3. An assembly, as claimed in claim 2, wherein said first and second supply means each comprise separator means for separating a stick of container ends from the respective array of ends, wherein each of said separator means positions a stick of container ends from a separating area to a staging area, said staging area being between said separating area and said pick-up area. 4. An assembly, as claimed in claim 3, wherein said first and second supply means each further comprise shuttle means for transporting a stick of container ends from said staging area to said pick-up area. 5. An assembly, as claimed in claim 4, wherein said first and second supply means each further comprise: control means for selectively activating and deactivating the respective first and second sources; a pick-up sensor, operatively connected to said control means, for sensing the presence of a stick of container ends in said pick-up area; a staging sensor, operatively connected to said control means, for sensing the presence of a stick of container ends in said staging area; and a separating sensor, operatively connected to said control means, for sensing the presence of a stick of container ends in said separating area, wherein said control means deactivates the respective source if each of said respective sensors indicate that a stick of container ends is present in each of said respective areas. 6. An assembly, as claimed in claim 2, wherein said moving means deposits sticks of container ends into channels of trays positioned at said first and second loading areas. 7. An assembly, as claimed in claim 6, wherein said trays are stackable. 8. An assembly, as claimed in claim 7, further comprising a tray supply area for accommodating a stack of empty trays, wherein said moving means includes engaging means for selectively engaging and disengaging an empty tray at said tray supply area, whereby an empty tray may be engaged at said tray supply area, moved to at least one of said first and second loading areas, and deposited in stacked relation over a full tray at said loading area. 9. An assembly, as claimed in claim 2, wherein said first and second supply means each comprise trough means for directing sticks of container ends toward said pick-up area. 10. An assembly, as claimed in claim 9, wherein each of said trough means is at least partially inclined. 11. An assembly, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said moving means comprises: a transfer mechanism, operatively connected to said pick-up head, for selectively moving said pick-up head between said pick-up area, said first loading area, and said second loading area. 12. An assembly, as claimed in claim 11, wherein said pick-up head comprises axial compression means for selectively providing axial compression to opposing ends of a stick of container ends. 13. An assembly, as claimed in claim 12, wherein said axial compression means comprises at least two compression clamps mounted on opposing end portions of said pick-up head and movable between a compressed condition and a released condition. 14. An assembly, as claimed in claim 13, wherein said axial compression means comprises six compression members appropriately mounted on opposing end portions of said pick-up head to provide axial compression to three sticks of container ends. 15. An assembly, as claimed in claim 11, wherein said transfer mechanism includes means for selectively tilting said pick-up head. 16. An assembly, as claimed in claim 15, wherein said means for selectively tilting said pick-up head comprises a rotary actuator. 17. An assembly, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a first discharge means for transporting the first load from said first loading area to a first discharge area; and a second discharge means for transporting the second load from said second loading area to a second discharge area. 18. An assembly, as claimed in claim 17, wherein said first and second discharge means each comprise a conveyor means connecting each of said loading areas with said respective discharge area. 19. An assembly, as claimed in claim 18, wherein each of said conveyor means comprises at least one powered conveyor. 20. An assembly, as claimed in claim 17, wherein said first and second discharge means each comprise: a buffer area, between said loading area and said discharge area, for temporarily accommodating a load of container ends; control means for selectively activating and deactivating said moving means; a buffer sensor, operatively connected to said control means, for sensing the presence of a load of container ends in said buffer area; and a discharge sensor, operatively connected to said control means, for sensing the presence of a load of container ends in said discharge area, wherein said control means deactivates said moving means if all of said respective sensors indicate that a load of container ends is present in each of said respective areas. 21. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said moving means is disposed between said first and second loading areas. 22. An apparatus as claimed in claim 21, wherein said moving means is interposed between said first loading area and said second loading area. 23. An assembly, as claimed in claim 1, wherein said pick-up area comprises: a first pick-up area for receiving a plurality of container ends from the first source; and a second pick-up area, separate from said first pick-up area, for receiving a plurality of container ends from the second source different from the first source. 24. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein container ends from the first source have a configuration different than container ends from the second source. 25. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said first and second loading areas are located distal said pick-up area. 26. An apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said moving means moves container ends from the first source in a first direction towards said first loading area to form said first load and moves container ends from the second source in a second direction, different than said first direction, towards said second loading area to form said second load. 27. A method for processing container ends received from at least two sources utilizing a transport device comprising a pick-up head, said method comprising the steps of: receiving a first stick of container ends at a pick-up area from a first source; receiving a second stick of container ends at the pick-up area from a second source, different from the first source; engaging the first stick at the pick-up area with the pick-up head of the transport device, moving the transport device to a first position, and depositing the first stick at a first loading area to form a first load; and engaging the second stack at the pick-up area with the pick-up head of the transport device, moving the transport device to a second position different from the first position, and depositing the second stick at the second loading area to form a second load, wherein sticks from the first source are only deposited at the first loading area, and wherein sticks from the second source are only deposited at the second loading area. 28. A method, as claimed in claim 27, wherein the engaged sticks are deposited into trays at the first and second loading areas during said steps of engaging the first and second stick, respectively, and wherein, when a tray in a loading area is completely filled, said method further comprises the steps of: engaging an empty tray at a tray supply area; transporting the empty tray to the loading area corresponding with the completely filled tray, and stacking the empty tray onto the completely filled tray. 29. A method, as claimed in claim 28, wherein the recited steps are sequentially performed until a desired stack of trays is developed. 30. A method, as claimed in claim 27, wherein said steps of receiving a first stick and receiving a second stick comprise the steps of: receiving a first array of container ends from the first source, separating the first array into the first stick, and providing the first stick to the pick-up area; and receiving a second array of container ends from the second source, separating the second array into the second stick, and providing the second stick to the pick-up area. 31. A method, as claimed in claim 27, further comprising the steps of: transporting the first load from the first loading area to a first discharge area; and transporting the second load from the second loading area to a second discharge area. 32. A method, as claimed in claim 27, wherein the first loading area is separate from the second loading area such that each loading area can support a separate tray for accommodating a stick therein. 33. A method as claimed in claim 27, further comprising the steps of: selecting one of said first and second sticks for transport from the pick-up area for deposit in a corresponding loading area, the corresponding loading area being the first loading area where the first stick is selected, and the second loading area where the second stick is selected; and moving the selected stick towards the corresponding loading area. 34. A method as claimed in claim 27, wherein: the second loading area is open to receive sticks from the second source while sticks from the first source are being deposited at the first loading area. 35. A method as claimed in claim 27, further comprising the step of: identifying equipment which processed a particular container end solely by determining whether said particular container end was from said first loading area or said second loading area. 