A single axis force sensor assembly for sensing compressive and tensile forces along a first axis includes a first member having a center hub and a plurality of arms extending radially outward therefrom. Each of the plurality of arms terminate at a peripheral flange of the first member. Strain sensing gauges are mounted to at least one of the plurality of arms so as to detect mechanical deformation of the arm or arms to which the gauges are attached. A second member is joined to the center hub such that the first and second members are oriented generally parallel to one another. A gap extends between the first member and the second member. A circuit carrying substrate may be physically incorporated as a part of the force sensor assembly, i.e., above and adjacent to the plurality of arms. A circuit of the circuit carrying substrate is electrically connected to the strain sensing gauges. A recessed ledge may be formed at an inner periphery of the peripheral flange of the first member for facilitating placement and positioning of the substrate adjacent to--without touching--the plurality of arms. A channel may be formed radially through the peripheral flange of the first member for accessing an adjustable switch which may be mounted to the circuit carrying substrate.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A robotic force sensor assembly for sensing forces along a first axis, said force sensor assembly comprising: a first member having a center hub and a plurality of arms extending radially outward therefrom, said plurality of arms terminating at a peripheral rim of said first member; strain sensing means mounted to at least one of said plurality of arms so as to detect mechanical deformation of said at least one of said plurality of arms; a second member joined to said center hub, said first and second members being oriented generally parallel to one another; a gap extending between said first member and said second member; a circuit carrying substrate physically incorporatable as part of said force sensor assembly, a circuit of said circuit carrying substrate being electrically connected to said strain sensing means; a channel formed radially through said peripheral rim of said first member; and said circuit carrying substrate including an adjustable switch, wherein when said circuit carrying substrate is physically incorporated as a part of said force sensor assembly, said adjustable switch is aligned adjacent to said channel so that said adjustable switch is accessible therethrough. 2. The force sensor assembly of claim 1, further comprising a recessed ledge formed at an inner periphery of said peripheral flange of said first member, said recessed ledge facilitating placement of said circuit carrying substrate adjacent to said plurality of arms. 3. The force sensor assembly of claim 1, further comprising a port hole extending radially through said peripheral flange of said first member for viewing an indicator through said port hole. 4. The force sensor assembly of claim 3, wherein said circuit carrying substrate includes said indicator, wherein when said circuit carrying substrate is physically incorporated as a part of said force sensor assembly, said indicator is aligned adjacent to said port hole for facilitating viewing of said indicator. 5. The force sensor assembly of claim 4, wherein said indicator is a light emitting diode, wherein when said light emitting diode is activated, visible light passes through said port hole. 6. The force sensor assembly of claim 1, further comprising means for aligning said force sensor assembly to robot tooling and to a robot. 7. The force sensor assembly of claim 6, further comprising means for attaching said force sensor assembly to said robot tooling and said robot. 8. The force sensor assembly of claim 1, further comprising means for preventing a tensile overload. 9. The force sensor assembly of claim 1, further comprising means for preventing a compressive overload. 10. The force sensor assembly of claim 1, further comprising a connector for electrically connecting the circuit of said circuit carrying substrate to a controller. 11. The force sensor assembly of claim 10, further comprising an opening extending from a peripheral point on an outer wall of said second member, said connector being mounted to said opening at said peripheral point. 12. The force sensor assembly of claim 10, further comprising an opening extending radially from a peripheral point on said peripheral flange of said first member therethrough, said connector being mounted to said radial opening at said peripheral point. 13. A single axis robot force sensor assembly for use in sensing forces associated with robotic applications, said robot force sensor assembly comprising: a center hub securing a first disc-like member to a second disc-like member; said first disc-like member having a plurality of arm members extending radially outward from said center hub and terminating in a peripheral rim of said first disc-like member; said first and second disc-like members being spaced apart so as to form a gap therebetween; strain sensing means mounted to at least one of said plurality of arm members for gauging mechanical deformation of said at least one of said plurality of arm members; and a circuit carrying substrate physically contacting said first disc-like member, a circuit of said circuit carrying substrate being electrically connected to said strain sensing means; wherein said circuit carrying substrate includes at least one adjustable switch mounted thereto, said at least one adjustable switch being electrically connected to said strain sensing means. 14. The robot force sensor assembly of claim 13, wherein said circuit carrying substrate includes at least one light emitting diode mounted thereto for indicating when a predetermined force has been detected. 15. The robot force sensor assembly of claim 14, further comprising a tensile overload stop. 16. The robot force sensor assembly of claim 15, further comprising a compressive overload stop. 17. A robot force sensor assembly for sensing compressive and tensile forces along a first axis, said robot force sensor assembly comprising: first plate-like member joined to a second plate-like member at a first location; at least one flexing member attached to one of said first plate-like member and said second plate-like member, said at least one flexing member being mechanically deformable in response to the compressive and tensile forces; strain sensing means mounted to said at least one flexing member for gauging said mechanical deformation of said flexing member; a circuit board physically incorporatable as part of said force sensor assembly, a circuit of said circuit board being electrically connected to said strain sensing means; and a plurality of adjustable switches mechanically incorporated on said circuit board and electrically connected to a circuit of said circuit board. 18. The robot force sensor of claim 17, further comprising an associated plurality of indicators for said plurality of adjustable limit switches, each of said plurality of indicators being electrically connected to the circuit of said circuit board. 19. The robot force sensor of claim 18, wherein the circuit of said circuit board is electrically connected to a controller. 