A core ring assembly for use in production of a plastic injection-molded component is formed by injecting molten metal alloy into core dies to produce two intricately shaped ring type elements--one male, one female. Removing the male and female ring elements from the core dies and combining the two elements in an assembly machine to form a uniform, geometrically symmetrical, integral core ring assembly. The core ring assembly is transported to a plastic molding machine for overmolding the core ring assembly with either thermosetting or thermoplastic material. Then, the core assembly is melted out from the plastic component in a hot oil bath or induction melt-out, and the molten alloy recovered thereby is returned to a molten metal alloy tank for reuse.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A core ring assembly for use in manufacturing a molded plastic component comprising: a female core ring; and a complementary male core ring for insertion via a rotating motion into said female ring such that said female and said male core rings are joined together to form a core ring assembly. 2. A core ring assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said male core ring is inserted, following a helical pattern or path, into said female core ring. 3. A core ring assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein said male core ring includes a plurality of segments connected to and extending from a first flange; and said female core ring includes a plurality of segments connected to and extending from a second flange. 4. A core ring assembly as set forth in claim 3 wherein said male core ring and female core rings each have an equal number of segments. 5. A tool for making a molded plastic component comprised of: a front mold portion and a rear mold portion said front and rear portion combining to form a mold cavity, and a core ring assembly disposed within said cavity, said core ring assembly including a male core ring and a female core ring, the male core ring including a first flange and a plurality of core segments extending therefrom, and said female core ring including a second flange and a plurality of core segments extending therefrom such that said first and second flanges are sandwiched between the front mold portion and rear mold portion of the mold cavity to secure the core ring assembly in position during the molding operation; and said mail and female core rings are complementary and are assembled by inserting the male core ring into the female core ring in a screwing motion following a helical path. 