A cartridge magazine with interfaces to automatic cartridge feeder devices. On one side, the magazine has an open interface that provides unencumbered access by a robotic picker that accesses cartridges for a library. The magazine is accessible on another side by a transport mechanism of an automatic cartridge feeder (ACF). The transport carries a cartridge from the magazine to a drive unit where the data stored on the cartridge is read or new data is written. The interface to the ACF includes a handle member for placing the magazine into the feeder. The magazine is mounted by loading it into the feeder and pushing the handle inward allowing a plunger on the ACF to engage a groove on the handle member that locks the magazine into place. Locking the magazine in place activates a sensor, thereby enabling the operation of the feeder. The interface securely engages the ACF so that the magazine cannot be accidentally dislodged from it. The magazine may be released from the feeder by pulling the handle forward, thereby activating the sensor which sends a signal to disable operation of the feeder. Pulling the handle forward also unlocks the magazine for easy removal. The handle may be extended for ease of carrying the magazine.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A magazine for a cartridge feeder (CF) having a cartridge transport mechanism, the magazine comprising: a frame surrounding a multiplicity of storage shelves for storing therein a multiplicity of data storage cartridges; an opening on a first side of the storage shelves for transporting cartridges through to the transport mechanism; a CF interface that is adapted to position the magazine relative to the CF by including a handle on the magazine that is pivotable about a pivot pin and slidable relative to the CF, and is further adapted to couple the magazine to the CF; and an opening on a second side of the storage shelves for allowing access to at least one cartridge of the multiplicity of data storage cartridges without interrupting operation of the CF; wherein the CF interface further includes a latch bar that is attached to the CF that is adapted to engage the handle when the magazine is positioned relative to the CF and the magazine further comprises: a rail-guide attached to the magazine adjacent to the handle having an elongated body with a top side, and also having a substantially longitudinal slot disposed in the body that is adapted for receiving the pivot pin of the handle and further adapted for providing a sliding path for the handle; a plunger configured to depend from the latchbar in a direction substantially toward the rail-guide when the magazine is coupled to the CF; and a groove disposed in the top side of the rail-guide that is adapted to receive the plunger to couple the magazine to the CF; and wherein the frame supports a light sensor and the latch bar includes a flag that moves relative to the frame with the latch bar, such that when the plunger of the latch bar engages the groove of the rail-guide then the light sensor is activated by the flag to indicate that the magazine is coupled to the CF. 2. The magazine of claim 1, wherein the flag is adapted to indicate that no magazine is coupled to the CF when the latch bar is disengaged from the groove of the handle. 3. A magazine for an automatic cartridge feeder (ACF) having a cartridge transport mechanism, the magazine comprising a frame supporting a multiplicity of storage shelves for storing therein a multiplicity of data storage cartridges; an opening on a first side of the storage shelves for transporting cartridges through to the transport mechanism; an ACF interface including a pivotable and slidable handle having a groove disposed on a surface thereon, the handle being adapted for positioning the magazine relative to the ACF and for securing the magazine in a fixed position relative to the ACF, wherein the ACF includes a latch bar having a depending plunger that is adapted to engage the groove disposed in the handle thereby securing the magazine relative to the ACF; and an opening on a second side of the storage shelves for allowing access to at least one cartridge of the multiplicity of data storage cartridges without interrupting operation of the ACF; wherein the frame supports a light sensor and the latch bar includes a flag that moves relative to the frame with the latch bar, such that when the plunger of the latch bar engages the groove of the handle then the light sensor is activated by the flag to indicate that the magazine is present. 4. The magazine of claim 3, wherein the flag is adapted to indicate that no magazine is present when the latch bar is disengaged from the groove of the handle. 5. A coupling interface between a magazine and a cartridge feeder (CF), wherein the magazine stores a multiplicity of data storage cartridges on shelves in a frame and mates with the cartridge feeder, which includes a cartridge transport mechanism that automatically removes and returns cartridges from the magazine during CF operation, the interface comprising: a handle attached to the magazine that is pivotable about a pivot pin and slidable relative to the CF and engages manual coupling of the magazine to the CF and transport by a human operator; and a latch bar attached to the CF that is adapted to engage the handle when the handle is moved in a first direction and release the handle when the handle is moved in a second direction; wherein: the handle is moved in a second direction by pulling or lifting on the handle thereby causing the latch bar to release the handle. 6. A coupling interface between a magazine and a cartridge feeder (CF), wherein the magazine is adapted for storing a multiplicity of data storage cartridges on shelves in a frame for use by a cartridge feeder having a cartridge transport mechanism, the interface comprising: a handle attached to the magazine that is pivotable about a pivot pin and slidable relative to the CF; a latch bar attached to the CF that is adapted to engage the handle when the handle is moved in a first direction and release the handle when the handle is moved in a second direction; a light sensor attached to the frame of the magazine; and a flag attached to the latch bar that moves relative to the frame with the latch bar, such that when the latch bar engages the groove of the handle then the light sensor is activated by the flag to indicate that the magazine is coupled to the CF. 7. The interface of claim 6, wherein the flag is adapted to indicate that no magazine is present when the latch bar is disengaged from the groove of the handle. 8. A combination for processing a plurality of data storage cartridges comprising: a drive for receiving a processing data stored on the cartridge by a read/write mechanism; a magazine having a frame with shelves for holding a multiplicity of cartridges having a first open side and a second open side; a cartridge feeder (CF) having a transport mechanism for transporting a cartridge between the first open side of the magazine and the drive; and a CF interface that is coupled to the magazine that is adapted to position the magazine relative to the CF and to couple the magazine to the CF; wherein the second open side of magazine is adapted to allow access to at least one cartridge of the multiplicity of data storage cartridges without interrupting operation of the CF; the CF interface further includes a latch bar that is coupled to the CF that is adapted to engage the handle when the magazine is positioned relative to the CF; and the frame supports a light sensor and the latch bar includes a flag that moves relative to the frame with the latch bar, such that when the latch bar engages the handle then the light sensor is activated by the flag to indicate that the magazine is coupled to the CF. 9. The magazine of claim 8, wherein the flag is adapted to indicate that no magazine is coupled to the CF when the latch bar is disengaged from the handle. 