The robot has a first rail which extends in one direction and has a first slide mounted thereon, the first slide being slidable along the rail. A second rail extends away from the first rail, and has one end secured to the first slide. First and second motors are mounted in fixed positions relative to the first rail, the motors driving first and second drive belts. The first drive belt is attached to the first slide, thence routed around a first pulley at one end of the first rail, thence around a second pulley at the other end of the first rail, and thence back to the first slide. This produces movement of the first slide along the first rail. The second drive belt is routed from a third pulley at one end of the first rail, thence around a fourth pulley at the other end of the first rail, thence around a fifth pulley mounted on the first slide, thence out the second rail and around a sixth pulley mounted on the second rail, thence back towards the first rail and around a seventh pulley mounted on the first slide, and thence back to and around the third pulley. A computer controls and coordinates the first and second motors to produce movement of the first slide along a first axis by operation of the first motor, and to produce movement along or about a second axis by operation of the second motor in coordination with the first motor. In the preferred embodiment, the second axis movement is movement of a second slide, slidably mounted on the second rail for movement therealong, secured to the second drive belt. In an alternative embodiment, the second axis movement is .theta. or rotational movement of a rotatable element mounted on the second rail.
Claims What is claimed as the invention is: 1. A two-axis robot comprising: a first rail extending in one direction, having a first slide mounted thereon, said first slide being slidable along said first rail; a second rail extending away from said first rail and having one end secured to said first slide; first and second motors mounted in fixed positions relative to said first rail, said motors driving first and second drive means respectively, each said drive means being selected from the group consisting of a belt, a cable, and a chain; said first drive means being attached to said first slide, thence routed around a first pulley at a first location along said first rail, thence around a second pulley at a second location spaced from said first location, and thence back to said first slide, whereby said first slide may be moved between said first and second locations by operation of said first motor; said second drive means being routed from a third pulley at a third location along said first rail, thence around a fourth pulley at a fourth location spaced from said third location, thence around a fifth pulley mounted on said first slide, thence out said second rail and around a sixth pulley mounted on said second rail, thence back towards said first rail and around a seventh pulley mounted on said first slide, and thence back to and around said third pulley; a second slide, slidably mounted on said second rail for movement therealong, secured directly to said second drive belt means between said sixth pulley and one of said pulleys on said first slide; and control means for controlling and coordinating said first and second motors to produce movement of said first slide along said first rail by operation of said first motor, and to produce movement of said second slide along said second rail by operation of said second motor in coordination with said first motor. 2. A robot as recited in claim 1, where said first motor is connected to drive said first pulley, and said second motor is connected to drive said third pulley. 