An implement for automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a robotic mechanism, two computers each having a display screen and keyboard, the implement having a plurality of exchangeable parts provided with signally means to transmit information when an exchangeable part is malfunctioning, the signalling means also identifying the malfunctioning part on one of the display screens of a computer. An emergency electrical battery is provided at an individual parlor containing the implement for providing electrical power in the event of failure of the main power, a computer being provided for closing down non-vital functions in the event of such power failure or of malfunctioning of the parts or parts concerned. The set of teat cups which are automatically installed and removed from the farm animal being milked can also be individually installed manually on the animal's teats, and a second set of teat cups for similar manual installation and removal is also provided, including conduits for pulsating the teat cups connected to a vacuum source, and for conveying milk received in the teat cups to a receptacle.
Claims Having disclosed my invention, what I claimed is new and to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. An apparatus for automatically milking animals, such as cows, comprising a milking robot, said milking robot including milking means which comprises a first set of teat cups that are automatically connected to and disconnected from a said animal's teats by said milking robot, a second set of teat cups operatively connected to said milking means, and switching means for switching to manual operation whereby said second set of teat cups are manually connected to and disconnected from said animal's teats. 2. An Apparatus for automatically milking animals, such as cows, which comprises: a milking robot which includes a set of teat cups; guidance means for said milking robot for placing the teat cups on the teats of the animal to be milked and removing them therefrom after the milking operations; conduits for removing the milk from the teat cups and conveying it to a storage receptacle; pulsation means for causing the teat cups to pulsate when received on the teats of the farm animal for causing milk to flow therefrom; and switching means for substituting a capability of the apparatus for manual installation of said teat cups on the animal's teats and the manual removal therefrom in lieu of the automatic installation of the teat cups and removal therefrom by said milking robot. 3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2, comprising a second set of teat cups in addition to the aforementioned teat cups which are carried by said milking robot, said second set of teat cups being installed and removed manually from the teats of the animals, and conduits from said second set of teat cups connecting them to said storage receptacle. 4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3, which is contained in a milking parlor for confining the animal being milked, said milking parlor including a working pit adjacent to the set of teat cups carried by said milking robot. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 4, wherein the components of said milking parlor and said apparatus are normally energized by electricity from a power main, an emergency device associated with said parlor, said emergency device serving to provide the apparatus with electrical power in the event that electricity from the power main is not available. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2, wherein said milking robot comprises a carrier member on which said teat cups are disposed. 7. An apparatus in accordance with claim 6, wherein said apparatus is in a milking parlor, and a straight guide member extends along one side of said milking parlor, said carrier member together with said teat cups therein being attached to said straight guide member, and being movable thereon to the forward portion of said milking parlor. 8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 6, comprising a piston and cylinder associated with said teat cups for holding said teat cups in said carrier member. 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 6, comprising electromagnets, said teat cups being removably held in said carrier member by said electromagnets. 10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 6, comprising holding means for detachably holding said teat cups in said carrier member and selection means for disconnecting or connecting said teat cups from or to said holding means. 11. An apparatus in accordance with claim 10, wherein when said selection means is actuated to eliminate the force by which said teat cups are held on said carrier member, said teat cups can be readily removed manually from said carrier member. 12. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2, comprising a second set of teat cups, said second set of teat cups being connected to a vacuum source for pulsating the teat cups, and also to a receptacle for receiving milk from the farm animal being milked via said second set of teat cups. 13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 12, comprising a plurality of valves which are selectively operable to connect said second set of teat cups to said vacuum source and said receptacle. 14. An apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein said valves operably connect said second set of teat cups to said vacuum source and said receptacle before disconnecting said first mentioned set of teat cups from said vacuum source and said receptacle. 15. An apparatus in accordance with claim 12, comprising a supporting arm, said second set of teat cups being removably supported by said supporting arm. 16. An apparatus in accordance with claim 15, wherein said supporting arm comprises a plurality of parts which are pivotal relative to each other. 