A system for cleaning large storage tanks having a relatively small access opening is disclosed. An insertion chamber housing a dual tracked collapsible robotically operated vehicle is attached to a side entry port of the tank. The dual tracked vehicle is hydraulically powered up and enters the tank, whereupon it expands into its open operating condition. The dual tracked vehicle carries an articulatable nozzle for spraying cleaning fluid in all directions in two planes mutually perpendicular to each other inside the tank. It also carries a closed circuit television camera (CCTV) which is used by a remote operator to monitor its position and to control its movements.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for cleaning storage tanks having a relatively small access opening therein, comprising: an insertion chamber sized and adapted to attach to a storage tank access opening; said insertion chamber housing a dual tracked collapsed hydraulically operated vehicle said vehicle movable in collapsed state from said insertion chamber into said tank, said vehicle carrying a controllable articulatable nozzle means capable of nozzle rotation of 360.degree. in each of two planes perpendicular to each other, when said vehicle is in a non-collapsed open operating within said tank position, for spraying a cleaning fluid inside said tank and said vehicle being capable of remotely controlled expansion from being collapsed to the open operating position inside said tank upon moving into said tank. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said insertion chamber further comprises an umbilical tube for conducting operating hoses and cables to said vehicle. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said insertion chamber further comprises means for sealing said umbilical tube at point of entry into said insertion chamber. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said umbilical tube is pivotally attached to said vehicle. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said umbilical tube is detachably pivotally attached to said vehicle. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein said vehicle further comprises means for simultaneously expanding said dual vehicle tracks from a closed contracted position sized to fit in said insertion chamber to an open operating position upon entry into said tank and to raise said articulatable nozzle means from a collapsed horizontal position to a vertical operating position. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein said means for expansion includes hydraulic cylinder and actuator means capable of expansion and re-contraction of said dual tracks of said vehicle. 