A wafer processing system including a processing chamber, a low pressure pump coupled to the processing chamber for pumping noble and non-noble gases, a valve mechanism coupling a source of noble gas to the processing chamber, an in situ getter pump disposed within the processing chamber which pumps certain non-noble gases during the flow of the noble gas into the chamber, and a processing mechanism for processing a wafer disposed within the processing chamber. Preferably, the in situ getter pump can be operated at a number of different temperatures to preferentially pump different species of gas at those temperatures. A gas analyzer is used to automatically control the temperature of the getter pump to control the species of gasses that are pumped from the chamber. A method for processing a wafer of the present invention includes the steps of placing a wafer within a processing chamber and sealing the chamber, flowing a noble gas into the chamber while simultaneously pumping the chamber with an external low pressure pump and with an in situ getter pump disposed within the chamber which pumps non-noble gases, and processing the wafer within the chamber while the noble gas continues to flow. The method also preferably includes the steps of monitoring the composition of the gas within the chamber and controlling the temperature of the getter material based upon the analysis of the composition.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wafer processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a first pump effective to pump gases to achieve a vacuum of at least about 10.sup.-7 Torr selected from the group including molecular pumps, ion pumps, cryopumps, and turbo pumps, said first pump being coupled to said processing chamber by a throttle plate that reduces the conductance of said first pump, said first pump being operative to pump a noble gas from said chamber; a valve mechanism coupling a source of noble gas to said processing chamber such that said noble gas can flow continuously into said processing chamber and be continuously pumped from said chamber by said first pump; an in situ getter pump disposed within said processing chamber which can pump a non-noble gas during the flow of said noble gas into said chamber, said in situ pump pumping essentially none of said noble gas, wherein said getter pump includes a getter module and a heater disposed proximate to said getter module such that said getter module can be heated, said getter pump further including a heat shield effective to shield thermally said getter pump module from at least some surfaces within said processing chamber; a gas analyzer coupled to said chamber; and a controller coupled to said gas analyzer and operative to selectively control a temperature of said heater based upon the gas composition within said chamber. 2. A wafer processing system as retired in claim 1, further comprising a second pump effective to pump gases to achieve a vacuum of at least about 0.05 Torr coupled to said processing chamber to pump said noble gas from said chamber. 3. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 1, wherein a first temperature of said getter module, as controlled by said controller, is chosen to pump at least one non-noble gas other than hydrogen and a second temperature of said getter module is chosen to pump hydrogen. 4. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 3, wherein said heater is further capable of healing said getter module to a third temperature to regenerate said getter module. 5. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 3, wherein a getter material of said getter module comprises Zr-Al, and wherein said first temperature is in the range of 300.degree.-400.degree. C., and wherein said second temperature is in the range of 25.degree.-100.degree. C. 6. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said getter pump includes a plurality of getter modules, each of which is thermally shielded from at least some surfaces within said processing chamber by at least one of said heat shield and an additional heat shield. 7. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 6, wherein said plurality of getter modules essentially include the same types of getter material. 8. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 6, wherein at least two of said getter modules include at least two different types of getter material. 9. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 6, wherein said getter pump includes a number of heaters associated with a respective number of said getter modules to control the temperatures of said respective number of getter modules. 10. A wafer processing system comprising: a processing chamber having a plurality of interior surfaces; an in situ getter pump system disposed with said processing chamber and provided with a heater and a heat shield effective to shield thermally a getter material of said getter pump system from at least some surfaces within said processing chamber such that said getter pump system is capable of operating at more than one temperature, such that different non-noble gasses are preferentially pumped at different temperatures, wherein a first temperature is chosen to pump at least one non-noble gas other than hydrogen, and a second temperature is chosen to pump hydrogen; and a processing mechanism for processing a wafer disposed within said processing chamber. 11. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 10, further comprising: a gas analyzer coupled to said chamber; and a controller having an input coupled to said gas analyzer an output coupled to said heater; whereby said temperature is controlled based upon an analysis of a gas mixture within said chamber. 12. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 10, wherein said getter material comprises Zr-Al, and wherein said first temperature is in the range of 300.degree.-400.degree. C., and wherein said second temperature is in the range of 25.degree.-100.degree. C. 13. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 10, wherein said getter pump system is provided with a plurality of getter modules, each of which is associated with a heater, such that the temperatures of said plurality of getter modules can be controlled. 14. A processing system comprising: a sealable enclosure having a plurality of interior surfaces therein; and an in situ getter pump system having getter material disposed within said enclosure which is capable of operating at more than one temperature, said getter pump system including a heat shield for shielding thermally said getter material from at least some of said interior surfaces such that different non-noble gasses are pumped preferentially by said getter pump system at different temperatures of said getter material when said enclosure is sealed, wherein a first temperature is chosen to pump at least one non-noble gas other than hydrogen, and a second temperature is chosen to pump hydrogen. 15. A processing system as recited in claim 14, wherein said in situ getter pump includes a heater arranged to heat said getter material. 16. A processing system as recited in claim 15, further comprising: a gas analyzer coupled to said chamber; and a controller having an input coupled to said gas analyzer and an output coupled to said heater; whereby said temperature is controlled by said heater based upon an analysis of a gas mixture within said chamber. 17. A processing system as recited in claim 16, wherein said pump system includes a plurality of getter modules, where at least two of said getter modules can be kept at different temperatures by said heater. 18. A wafer processing system comprising: a processing chamber; a first pump effective to pump gases to achieve a vacuum of at least about 10.sup.-7 Torr coupled to said processing chamber which can pump a noble gas from said chamber; a valve mechanism coupling a source of noble gas to said processing chamber such that said noble gas can flow continuously into said processing chamber; an in situ getter pump including getter material disposed within said processing chamber which can pump a non-noble gas during the flow of said noble gas into said chamber, said in situ pump pumping essentially none of said noble gas, said in situ pump including a heat shield for shielding thermally said getter material from at least some heated surfaces inside said processing chamber; and a processing system for processing a wafer disposed within said processing chamber. 19. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 18, wherein said first pump is selected from the group including cryopumps, turbo pumps, molecular pumps, and ion pumps. 20. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 19, wherein said cryopump includes a throttle plate which decreases fluid conductance of said cryopump with respect to said processing chamber. 21. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 18, further comprising a second pump effective to pump gases to achieve a vacuum of at least about 0.05 Torr coupled to said processing chamber which, upon activation, can pump said noble gas from said chamber. 22. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 19, wherein said getter pump includes a getter module and a heater disposed proximate to said getter module such that said getter module can be selectively heated such that its temperature can be maintained at at least two different temperatures. 23. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 22, wherein a first temperature is chosen to pump at least one non-noble gas other than hydrogen, and a second temperature is chosen to pump hydrogen. 24. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 23, wherein said heater is further capable of heating said getter module to a regeneration temperature wherein said getter module is regenerated. 25. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 23, wherein said getter material comprises Zirconium, and wherein said first temperature is in the range of 200.degree.-600.degree. C., and wherein said second temperature is in the range of 25.degree.-100.degree. C. 26. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 23, further comprising: a gas analyzer coupled to said chamber; and a controller having an input coupled to said gas analyzer and an output coupled to said heater; whereby said temperature is controlled based upon an analysis of a gas mixture within said chamber. 27. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 19, wherein said getter pump includes a plurality of getter modules. 28. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 27, wherein said plurality of getter modules essentially include the same type of getter material. 29. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 27, wherein at least two of said getter modules include at least two different types of getter material. 30. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 27, wherein said getter pump includes at least one heater associated with at least one of said getter modules. 31. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 27, wherein said getter pump includes a number of heaters associated with a respective number of said getter modules to control the temperatures of said respective number of getter modules. 32. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 22, further comprising: a gas analyzer coupled to said chamber; and a controller having an input coupled to said gas analyzer and an output coupled to said heater; whereby said respective temperatures of said number of said getter module is controlled based upon an analysis of a gas mixture within said chamber. 33. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein said heat shield is a fixed shield. 34. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein said heat shield is a movable shield. 35. The wafer processing system of claim 10, wherein said heat shield is a fixed shield. 36. The wafer processing system of claim 10, wherein said heat shield is a movable shield. 37. The processing system of claim 14, wherein said heat shield is a fixed shield. 38. The processing system of claim 14, wherein said heat shield is a movable shield. 39. The wafer processing system of claim 18, wherein said heat shield is a fixed shield. 40. The wafer processing system of claim 18, wherein said heat shield is a movable shield. 41. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 1, wherein said getter module includes a plurality of getter elements supported in a fixed relationship by a support structure. 42. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 41, wherein said getter elements are disk-shaped. 43. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 10, wherein said getter material includes a plurality of getter elements supported in a fixed relationship by a support structure. 44. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 43, wherein said getter elements are disk-shaped. 45. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 14, wherein said getter material includes a plurality of getter elements supported in a fixed relationship by a support structure. 46. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 45, wherein said getter elements are disk-shaped. 47. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 18, wherein said getter material includes a plurality of getter elements supported in a fixed relationship by a support structure. 48. A wafer processing system as recited in claim 47, wherein said getter elements are disk-shaped. 