A spatial parallel-architecture robotic Carpal wrist is shown. The structure of the robotic Carpal wrist allows for the application of a closed-form solution to the kinematic problem of determining all of the possible inputs to the actuators that result in a desired end orientation of the distal plate. The robotic Carpal wrist has a structure including a base plate, a distal plate and six equal length links connecting the base plate to the distal plate with the six links being arranged in three chains of two links each and with three actuators being mounted in fixed relationship to the base plate. The three actuators cause the three links connected to the base plate to each pivot with a single degree-of-freedom relative to the base plate. Each of the three chains of links includes a three degree-of-freedom joint between its two links. The distal plate is connected to three of the links with the connection between the distal plate and each of the three links allowing a single degree-of-freedom between the distal plate and each of the three links.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for the movement and positioning of an element in space, comprising: a basal plate; a distal plate; six linking members, each having two ends and being of substantially equal length; a first three of said linking members each being connected at one end to said basal plate by a basal joint allowing a single degree-of-freedom, and at an opposite end to one of a second three of said linking members by a mid-joint allowing three degrees-of-freedom, said mid-joint comprising a plurality of revolute joints; and each of said second three of said linking members being connected at one end to said distal plate by a distal joint allowing a single degree-of-freedom. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein: the axes of rotation of said basal joints intersect to form a triangle; and the axes of rotation of said distal joints intersect to form a triangle. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein: said mid-joints each comprise three revolute joints having co-intersecting axes of rotation, with the center of each mid-joint being defined as the intersection of said co-intersecting axes of rotation. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein: said centers of said mid-joints lie on a mid-plane of said device with said device being symmetrical about said mid-plane. 5. A robotic Carpal wrist comprising: a base member; a distal member; three basal linking members pivotally attached via basal pivoting structures to said base member at first ends of said basal linking members with said basal pivoting structures allowing a single degree-of-freedom between each of said basal linking members and said base member; three actuators mounted in fixed relationship relative to said base member and being connected to said three basal linking members for pivoting said basal linking members about pivot axes of said basal linking members; three connecting members, with each of said connecting members being pivotally attached to a corresponding one of said three basal linking members at a second end of said corresponding basal linking member, the connecting members each comprising a plurality of revolute joints; and said three connecting members each being pivotally attached to a corresponding distal linking member at a second end of said corresponding distal linking member, first ends of said distal linking members being pivotally attached via distal pivoting structures to said distal member, with said distal pivoting structures allowing a single degree-of-freedom between each of said distal linking members and said distal member. 6. The robotic Carpal wrist of claim 5 wherein: said connecting members each comprise three revolute joints having co-intersecting axes of rotation. 7. The robotic Carpal wrist of claim 5 wherein: each of said actuators comprises a crank arm, means for providing a rotational driving force to said crank arm, and a connecting rod connected between said crank arm and one of said three basal linking members. 8. The robotic Carpal wrist of claim 7 wherein: said connecting members each comprise three revolute joints having co-intersecting axes of rotation. 9. The robotic Carpal wrist of claim 5 wherein: said basal linking members and said distal linking members are substantially equal in length. 10. The robotic Carpal wrist of claim 9 wherein: pivot axes of said basal pivoting structures between, said three basal linking members and said base member intersect to define an equilateral triangle, and pivot axes of said distal pivoting structures between said three distal linking members and said distal member intersect to define an equilateral triangle. 11. The robotic Carpal wrist of claim 9 wherein: said base member and said distal member each comprise three radially projecting lobes with the radially outer end of each lobe having a transverse bore therethrough and said transverse bores receiving therein pivot pins connected to said three basal linking members and said three distal linking members, respectively. 12. The robotic Carpal wrist of claim 11 wherein: at least one of said linking members is substantially triangular. 13. A method for moving and positioning an element in space using a device that includes; a basal plate and a distal plate, six linking members, each having two ends and being of substantially equal length, a first three of said linking members each being connected at one end to said basal plate by a basal joint allowing a single degree-of-freedom, and at an opposite end to one of a second three of said linking members by a mid-joint allowing three degrees-of-freedom, said mid-joint comprising a plurality of revolute joints; and each of said second three of said linking members being connected at one end to said distal plate by a distal joint allowing a single degree-of-freedom, the method comprising: mounting the element to the distal plate, and moving and positioning the element by driving at least one of the linking members. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the step of moving and positioning includes the step of moving and positioning the element to at least one preset location. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of connecting the basal plate to a platform. 16. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of connecting the basal plate to a fixed platform. 17. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of locking the basal plate in a fixed position. 18. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of configuring the basal plate as part of a platform. 19. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of configuring the basal plate as part of a fixed platform. 