A roller locking brake structure includes a roller locking/lifting ring, a housing, a set of conical locking rollers, a striker ring and a drive disc. The roller locking/lifting ring includes respective V-shaped locking cam surface segments for each locking roller which is in the form of a truncated cone and provides a force and torque reaction surface for forces and torques generated in the braking process as well as providing a channel for a magnetic coil and flux return path of a magnetic circuit used to release a conical roller when the brake is off. The locking conical rollers couple the ring to the rim surface of the drive disc which provides another cam surface. The striker ring is located adjacent the rollers and is pulled down against the small end of the rollers by an electromagnetic coil when energized to decouple the locking rollers from the drive disc and thus cease the braking action.
Claims I claim: 1. An electromechanical rotary brake assembly comprising: a rotary member to be locked having a circumferential surface including a first generally flat continuous cam surface; a concentric substantially stationary locking/lifting ring having a circumferential surface including plural pairs of mutually divergent second cam surfaces, said second cam surfaces further being cam segments and wherein said pairs of second cam segments have a predetermined spaced relationship around said locking/lifting ring; a respective plurality of conical roller members located between the rotary member and the locking/lifting ring and coupling said first cam surface and said plural pairs of second cam segments, said roller members acting to contact said first cam surface and to roll up one of said divergent second cam surfaces and lock further rotation of said rotary member; means being selectively activated for thereafter decoupling said roller members from contact with said first cam surface and said second cam segments to permit rotation of said rotary member; said rotary member comprises a circular drive disk; said first generally flat continuous cam surface comprises an inwardly angulated outer rim surface of said drive disc and wherein said divergent second cam segments also comprise inwardly angulated flat surfaces to accommodate a conical surface of said roller members; said rotary member is located interiorly of said locking/lifting ring; said circumferential surface of said locking/lifting ring comprises an inner circumferential surface and wherein each said pair of second cam segments define a V-shaped concave cam region around said inner circumferential surface; and said means for decoupling said conical roller members includes striker plate means located adjacent a smaller end portion of said conical roller members and means for activating said striker plate means. 2. The brake assembly as defined by claim 1 wherein said striker plate means comprises an annular plate located adjacent a surface of said locking/lifting ring and extending over said smaller end portion of said conical roller members. 3. The brake assembly as defined by claim 2 wherein said annular plate comprises an electromagnetically activated plate and wherein said means for activating said annular plate comprises an electromagnetic coil mounted on said locking/lifting ring. 4. The brake assembly as defined by claim 3 wherein said coil is located in an annular slot formed in a surface of said locking/lifting ring. 5. The brake assembly as defined by claim 3 and additionally including bias spring means located between said locking/lifting ring and said annular plate for biasing said annular plate away from said ring when said electromagentic coil is deenergized. 6. The brake assembly as defined by claim 5 wherein said conical roller members comprise truncated cones having flat smaller and larger end surfaces. 7. The brake assembly as defined by claim 6 wherein each of said roller members include an axial bore in said larger end surface and additionally including a compression bias spring located in said bore and having one end contacting an outwardly extending shoulder portion of said locking/lifting ring. 8. The brake assembly as defined by claim 7 and wherein each of said roller members has a sloping outer surface and additionally including a recess formed in the sloping outer surface of said roller members and a band encircling said locking/lifting ring and fitted into said recesses for providing an outward radial bias force on said roller members. 9. The brake assembly as defined by claim 2 and additionally including housing means enclosing said annular plate, said locking/lifting ring and said conical roller members. 10. The brake assembly as defined by claim 9 wherein said housing means comprises a split housing including first and second housing members located on either side of said annular plate, said locking/lifting ring and said roller members and being fastened together through a hole located in at least one outer portion of said locking/lifting ring. 11. The brake assembly as defined by claim 10 and additionally including housing member fastening means through said hole in said locking/lifting ring and additionally including compliance means between said first and second housing members and said at least one end portion of said locking/lifting ring. 12. The brake assembly as defined by claim 11 wherein said compliance means comprises a pair of resilient O-rings. 13. The brake assembly as defined by claim 12 and additionally including bearing means located between said drive disc and said first and second housing members adjacent said outer rim surface comprising said first cam surface of said drive disc. 14. The brake assembly as defined by claim 13 wherein said bearing means comprises first and second sets of ball bearings located in a respective circular race fitted in said first and second housing members. 