The present invention provides an apparatus and method of utilization of the same of tooling for a robot or the like for installing rocker arm assemblies to the cylinder banks of an engine. A preferred embodiment of the present invention includes jaws to grip the rocker arm assembly, a bolt runner to torque the rocker arm bolt and means to angularly float the jaws, allowing the rocker arm assembly to align itself with the engine cylinder bank push rod and valve spring.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A tooling device for a robot or like to install a rocker arm assembly onto an engine cylinder bank with a valve spring, a push rod and an aperture, said rocker arm assembly including a rocker arm, pivot joint and bolt, said tooling device comprising in combination: a frame having means of connection with said robot or like, a first jaw connected to said frame for gripping a first end of said rocker arm, a second jaw movable with respect to said first jaw for gripping an end of said rocker arm opposite said first end; a bolt runner connected with said frame for turning said respective bolt in a first axis; and floating means allowing said frame to angularly float generally in a plane at a fixed angle with respect to said first axis when said bolt runner is turning said bolts, whereby said rocker arm assembly is installed to said engine cylinder bank in alignment with said respective push rod and said valve spring. 2. A tooling device as described in claim 1 wherein said rocker arm first end has a dimple to mate with said push rod and said first jaw has compliance in a generally vertical direction with respect to said frame. 3. A tooling device as described in claim 1 wherein said bolt runner also includes a sensor to sense the position of said bolt allowing said tooling device to confirm the presence of said bolt and/or the proper orientation of said bolt in said rocker arm assembly. 4. A tool as described in claim 1 having a subframe with a second set of first and second jaws, bolt runner and floating means allowing said tooling device to simultaneously install a second rocker arm assembly to said engine cylinder bank in alignment with a respective valve spring and push rod. 5. A tooling device as described in claim 4 further including means to vary the distance between said first and second rocker arm assemblies. 6. A tool as described in claim 5 further including a sensor for detecting the distance between said first and second rocker arm assemblies. 7. A tooling device as described in claim 1 wherein said second jaw grips an end of said rocker arm assembly installed adjacent said valve spring and wherein said second jaw has slight angular compliance with respect to said frame independent of said float means. 8. A tooling device for a robot or like to install at least two separate rocker arm assemblies, each assembly including a rocker arm with a dimpled end, pivot joint and bolt, onto an engine cylinder bank with valve springs, push rods and threaded apertures, said tooling device comprising in combination: a frame having means of connection with said robot or like, at least two subframes connected with said frame; a first jaw fixably connected to each respective subframe spring biased in a generally horizontal direction for gripping said dimpled end of said rocker arm, an actuator powered second jaw connected to each respective subframe movable with respect to said first jaw for gripping an end of said rocker arm opposite said dimpled end, said second jaw having slight angular compliance with said subframe; a bolt runner connected with each respective subframe for turning said bolt in a first axis, and said bolt runner having a sensor for detecting the presence and/or proper orientation of said bolt; means to vary the distance between the said subframes further including a sensor to verify the distance between said subframes; and floating means for each said respective subframe allowing said respective subframe to angularly float in a plane generally perpendicular to said first axis when said respective bolt runners are turning said respective bolts whereby said respective rocker arm assemblies are installed onto said engine cylinder banks in alignment with said respective push rods and said valve springs independent of one another. 9. A method of installing a rocker arm assembly which include a rocker arm, pivot joint and bolt onto an engine cylinder bank with a valve spring, push rod and an aperture, said method in combination comprising: connecting with a robot or like a tooling device having a frame; gripping said rocker arm assemblies with first and second jaws connected with said frame by bringing said jaws towards one another; turning about a first axis said bolt with a bolt runner connected with said frame; and angularly floating said first and second jaws in a plane generally fixed with respect to said first axis whereby said bolt runner torques said bolt into said aperture and said rocker arm comes into alignment with said push rod and said valve spring. 