A method and system for the flexible assembly of components into an assembly at an assembly station within an assembly area in an adaptive, programmable fashion. Several programmable locators mounted on a platform work cooperatively to receive and support components or parts having critical positioning features at approximate locations. The programmable locators then move the components so that the critical positioning features and hence the components are at desired locations. Thereafter, part position and orientation are constrained at retaining locations while the components are in their desired locations. Processing equipment at least partially joins the retained components either at the assembly station or at a separate processing station. One of the programmable locators may provide one of the retaining locations. Preferably, at least one sensor mounted on one of the programmable locators provides at least one feedback signal for a control means which controls at least one programmable locator to adapt its position with respect to at least one critical feature of its part to thereby relocate the part. In this way, verification of the accuracy of the positioning and holding is provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for flexibly assembling components to form an assembly of the components at an assembly station in an assembly area, each of the components having at least one critical positioning feature and a plurality of support locations definable relative to the at least one critical positioning feature, the system comprising: an assembly station including a base and a plurality of spaced programmable locators mounted and constrained at predetermined locations on the base to define a base coordinate frame, each of the programmable locators having a work envelope and being adapted to receive and support at least one of the components at one of said support locations of the at least one of the components wherein the components are cooperatively supported by the plurality of programmable locators at their respective initial support locations relative to the base coordinate frame; control means having a first set of programs, each of the programmable locators moving independently under program control within said work envelope to adjust said respective support location of the components supported on said programmable locators from said respective initial support locations, wherein said programmable locators are independently adjusted by said first set of programs of said control means to locate the at least one critical positioning feature of each component at a desired position, hence defining a desired position of each component; and means for retaining each of the components in its desired position at a plurality of retaining locations, each of the components being constrained at said retaining locations relative to the base, the components being constrained to allow join equipment to at least partially process the compounds to obtain the assembly. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for generating a location signal representing the actual location of the at least one critical positioning feature of one of the components in the base coordinate frame, wherein the one of the components is moved based on the location signal during adjustment of its actual location. 3. The system of claim 1 or claim 2 further comprising a processing station and means for moving the constrained components from the assembly station to the processing station, the processing station including the processing equipment to process the components. 4. The system of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein at least one of the retaining locations for a given component is provided by another component. 5. The system of claim 1 or claim 2 further comprising a processing station including the processing equipment, the processing station being coincident with the assembly station. 6. The system of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein at least one of the programmable locators has at least two degrees of freedom. 7. The system of claim 2 wherein the assembly station includes a reference locator for providing a global reference for the other locators. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the reference locator is mounted at a predetermined location on the base. 9. The system of claim 2 wherein one of the programmable locators is a reference locator mounted at its predetermined location to at least partially define the base coordinate frame. 10. The system of claim 7 or claim 8 or claim 9 wherein the reference locator receives and supports the one of the components and wherein said means for generating includes means for sensing the location of the at least one critical positioning feature of the one of the components to provide at least one feedback signal. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said control means includes means for processing the at least one feedback signal to obtain a processed signal, the processed signal being utilized to move the one of the components under control of its one of the first set of programs to its desired location. 12. The system of claim 9 further comprising a processing station and means for moving the base so that the constrained components are transferred to the processing station, the processing station including the process equipment for at least partially processing the components at the processing station. 13. The system of claim 9 further comprising means for partially processing the components together at a partial processing station including the process equipment and means for unloading the partially processed components from the base. 14. The system of claim 13 further comprising means for moving the unloaded, partially processed components to a finish processing station, the finish processing station including finish processing equipment to finish processing the components together. 15. The system of claim 2 wherein the means for generating includes at least one sensor for providing at least one feedback signal, the at least one feedback signal being utilized by the control means to generate the at least one location signal. 16. The system of claim 10 wherein the means for sensing includes at least one sensor, the at least one feedback signal being utilized by the control means to control at least one of the programmable locators. 17. The system of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein several of the plurality of programmable locators are adapted to receive and support one of the components at its approximate location and wherein the control means synchronizes the several of the plurality of programmable locators to effect a common displacement of the one of the components during adjustment of the actual location of the one of the components. 18. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one of the components is retained at its desired location by at least one of the plurality of programmable locators. 19. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one of the programmable locators moves its component along a programmed path provided by its one of the first set of programs to its desired location. 20. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one of the programmable locators retains its component in its desired location at at least one of its retaining locations. 21. The system of claim 7 wherein the reference locator is programmable. 22. The system of claim 15 wherein the at least one sensor is a camera mounted on one of the programmable locators. 23. The system of claim 15 wherein the at least one sensor is mounted on the programmable locator which moves the one of the components. 24. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one of the programmable locators both retains and processes its component in its desired location at at least one of its retaining locations. 25. The system of claim 12 or claim 13 wherein said control means causes said means for retaining to release at least one of the components at at least one of its plurality of retaining locations, the processed components being maintained in their desired locations at the remainder of the plurality of retaining locations. 26. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one of the programmable locators is a material handling robot. 27. The system of claim 1 wherein the process equipment includes a processing robot. 28. The system of claim 14 wherein said means for moving includes a material handling robot for picking up and placing the partially processed components in the finish processing station. 29. The system of claim 1 further comprising a material handling robot having a work envelope and means for storing at least one of the components within the work envelope of the material handling robot, the robot loading the at least one of the components to be supported by the programmable locators at the support locations of the components. 30. The system of claim 12 wherein the base is a rotary table and wherein the system further comprises means for rotating the rotary table to transfer the constrained components to the processing station from the assembly station. 31. The system of claim 1 or claim 9 or claim 12 or claim 30 wherein the base is a trapezoidal rotary table to reduce horizontal floor space requirements and allow gravity to at least partially locate at least one of the components at one of its support locations. 32. The system of claim 1 wherein the control means has a second set of programs different from the first set of programs and wherein the control means includes means for selecting one of the first and second sets of programs so that the plurality of programmable locators move their components under control of a selected set of the first and second sets of programs. 