A device for use in a multi-stage former automatically replaces a tool used for successive press work. When the tool is worn or damaged, or when the tool has been used for its estimated life, this condition is detected, whereupon the old tool is automatically removed and replaced by a new one. The device is used in an apparatus wherein a punch is forced against a die by a ram for plastically working a metal by press work, and the device handles the punch mounted on the ram. A punch case or punch holder is utilized to the punch replacing device being assembled therewith.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a former having a body frame with a fixed portion for mounting a die and a ram with a punch mounted thereon opposite to the die so as to be movable toward and away from the die, an automatic punch replacing device comprising: a punch holder attached to a front end face of the ram; a punch case projecting forward from said punch holder for holding a punch therein; an impact bearing member on said punch holder for bearing an impact of a punch during operation of the former; a space defined between said impact bearing member and said punch case having a size sufficient to accommodate a new punch therein, said space having an opening; a punch stocker communicating with said opening for accommodating therein new punches to be supplied to said space; a pusher rod movably mounted in said punch holder along an axis thereof for moving forward into said space for pushing a new punch from said space to said punch case and retracting from said space; a pressure plate comprising a block upwardly and downwardly movably mounted in said space for movement between a raised position between said impact bearing member and a punch held by said punch case in order to bear the impact of the punch while the former is in operation and a lowered position permitting the delivery of a new punch from said punch stocker into said space in front of said pusher rod. 2. The automatic punch replacing device of claim 1, and further comprising a lock assembly holding and releasing a punch in said punch case. 3. The automatic punch replacing device of claim 1, wherein said block of said pressure plate has a fluid cylinder operatively connected thereto for moving said block in said space. 4. The automatic punch replacing device of claim 1, wherein said opening of said space faces vertically upward and said punch stocker extends vertically upward from said opening. 5. In a former having a body frame with a fixed portion for mounting a die and a ram with a punch mounted thereon opposite to the die so as to be movable toward and away from the die, an automatic punch replacing device comprising: a punch holder attached to a front end face of the ram, said punch holder having a hollow cylindrical guide holder mounted thereto for bearing an impact of a punch during operation of the former and a hydraulic cylinder portion defining a closed hydraulic chamber; a hollow cylindrical punch case surrounding said cylindrical guide holder and mounted thereon so as to be slidably moveable forwardly and rearwardly on said cylindrical guide holder, said hollow cylindrical punch case having a piston attached thereto and fitted in said hydraulic chamber of said punch holder for hydraulically moving said punch case back and forth over a predetermined stroke length, and said hollow cylindrical punch case further having a punch holding portion for holding a punch at a front end of said cylindrical guide holder; and a new punch feeder integrally mounted with said punch case for receiving a new punch and feeding the new punch to said punch holding portion. 6. The automatic punch replacing device of claim 5, wherein said punch holder has a closure at a rear end thereof, said hydraulic chamber being defined between said hydraulic cylinder portion of said punch holder, said closure and said cylindrical guide holder. 7. The automatic punch replacing device of claim 5 wherein said punch holding portion is a cylindrical portion of said punch case moveable therewith to a position spaced from the front end of said guide holder for allowing a new punch to fall from said new punch feeder to a position in front of said guide holder. 8. The automatic punch replacing device of claim 5, wherein said punch case has an upper opening communicating with said new punch feeder and said new punch feeder has a punch stocker mounted thereon for feeding new punches thereto. 9. The automatic punch replacing device of claim 5, and further comprising a lock assembly for holding and releasing a punch in said punch holding portion of said punch case. 