A weld stack includes a horn having a weld end, a polar mount adapted to receive a portion of the horn therein, a first adjustment ring coupled to the polar mount at a pre-determined distance from the weld end of the horn, and a second adjustment ring coupled to the polar mount adjacent the first adjustment ring, wherein the second adjustment ring includes a fine adjustment device for adjusting a relative position of the first adjustment ring and the second adjustment ring.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A weld stack comprising: a horn having a weld end; a polar mount adapted to receive a portion of the horn therein; a first adjustment ring coupled to the polar mount at a pre-determined distance from the weld end of the horn; an alignment pin protruding from a surface of the first adjustment ring; and a second adjustment ring coupled to the polar mount adjacent the first adjustment ring, wherein the second adjustment ring includes a fine adjustment device positioned to engage the alignment pin for adjusting a relative position of the first adjustment ring and the second adjustment ring. 2. The weld stack according to claim 1, further comprising a locator coupled to the polar mount, wherein the locator includes a rounded end to engage the horn. 3. The weld stack according to claim 1, wherein the horn includes a datum structure to cooperate with a locator. 4. The weld stack according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the first adjustment ring and the second adjustment ring is a split collar. 5. The weld stack according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the first adjustment ring and the second adjustment ring includes a quick coupler for adjusting an interior diameter thereof. 6. The weld stack according to claim 1, wherein the first adjustment ring includes a channel formed thereon to receive a pin for aligning the weld stack. 7. The weld stack according to claim 6, wherein the first adjustment ring includes a flexible tab disposed in the channel to adjust a dimension of the channel. 8. The weld stack according to claim 1, wherein the fine adjustment device is a micrometer disposed for exerting a force on the alignment pin to adjust a relative position of the first adjustment ring and the second adjustment ring. 9. The weld stack according to claim 1, wherein the horn is in communication with an accelerator and at least a portion of the accelerator is received by the polar mount. 