The present invention provides an apparatus and method of utilization thereof of a clutch for placement between a robot or the like and an attached end of arm tooling device. A preferred embodiment of the inventive clutch provides compliance in six axes with adjustable setting and detection means to signal the robot or like to cease operation upon deformation of the clutch element.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A clutch adapted to be connected between an EOAT and a robot or like for deformation upon loading upon said EOAT beyond a predetermined amount, said clutch comprising in combination: a first plate for connection with said robot or like; a second plate spaced from said first plate for connection with said EOAT; a rod pivotally mounted with respect to one of said plates and mounted with said other plate; and means to angularly restrain said rod with respect to said plate said rod is pivotally mounted to whereby said second plate has a fixed position with respect to said first plate unless said EOAT is loaded beyond a predetermined amount causing said rod to pivot. 2. A clutch as described in claim 1 wherein said rod is pivotally mounted to said first plate. 3. A clutch as described in claim 2 wherein said second plate is mounted for relative movement with respect to said rod and further including means to restrain movement of said second plate with respect to said rod whereby said second plate has a fixed position with respect to said first plate unless said EOAT is loaded beyond a predetermined amount causing said second plate to move with respect to said rod. 4. A clutch as described in claim 2 wherein said rod is mounted for relative rotational movement with respect to said first plate and further including means to restrain rotational movement of said second plate with respect to said first plate whereby said second plate has a fixed angular rotational position with respect to said first plate unless said EOAT is loaded beyond a predetermined amount causing said rod to rotate with respect to said first plate. 5. A clutch as described in claim 1 wherein said means to angularly restrain said rod is adjustable. 6. A clutch as described in claim 1 further including means to detect a deviation in the position of said second plate with respect to said first plate. 7. A clutch as described in claim 3 wherein said means to restrain movement of said second plate with respect to said rod is adjustable. 8. A clutch as described in claim 6 wherein said detection means includes a first beam connected with said first plate and a second beam connected with said second plate with sensor means detecting relative motion between said first and second beams. 9. A clutch as described in claim 1 further including means to allow said second plate to rotate and to translate with respect to said first plate and said clutch including a single sensor detection means to determine any change in the position of said second plate with respect to said first plate. 10. A clutch adapted to be connected between an EOAT and a robot or like for deformation upon loading of said EOAT beyond a predetermined amount, said clutch comprising in combination: a first plate for connection with said robot or like; a second plate spaced from said first plate for connection with said EOAT; means to detect a change of position of said second plate with respect to said first plate; a rod pivotally and rotatively mounted with respect to said first plate and relatively mounted with respect to said second plate in a linear fashion; adjustable means to angularly and rotatively restrain said rod with respect to said first plate; and adjustable means to restrain linear movement of said second plate with respect to said rod whereby said second plate has a fixed position with respect to said first plate unless said EOAT is loaded beyond a predetermined amount causing said rod to pivot or rotate or said second plate to linearly move with respect to said rod. 11. A method for allowing deformation in the position of an EOAT connected to a robot or like with respect to the position of said robot or like due to loading upon said EOAT beyond a predetermined amount, said method in combination comprising: mounting with said robot or like a first plate; mounting with said EOAT a second plate spaced from said first plate; pivotally connecting with said first or second plate a rod mounted with said other plate; angularly restraining the position of said rod with respect to said plate said rod is pivotally connected to whereby said second plate has a fixed position with respect to said first plate unless said EOAT is loaded beyond a predetermined amount causing said rod to pivot. 