The invention provides an "on the fly" adjustable clutch for use with robot end-of-arm tooling that senses movement of a tool attached to the clutch and can send a signal to shut down the robot when an overload is encountered. The clutch includes a piston capable of lateral movement within a chamber that is slidably mounted on a pin and a tool plate. The pin extends beyond the clutch housing, and the tool plate is pivotally mounted on the pin. Spring act to bias the piston away from the tool plate such that the tool plate is held somewhat rigidly in relation to the clutch housing by the springs. In a preferred embodiment, pressurized air may be introduced into the piston chamber on either side of the piston to increase or decrease the bias of the springs. Thus, the clutch is capable of varying sensitivities with the biasing being adjustable under program control. Also included on the clutch are locating studs and proximity sensors. The locating means act to position the tool plate in a normal position in relation to the clutch housing. The proximity sensors detect movement of the tool plate in relation to the housing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A breakaway clutch system for robot end-of-arm tooling, comprising: a housing having a cavity; a movable member confined within the cavity, said movable member capable of movement from a normal position within said cavity; a tool connecting member adapted for connecting the clutch to a tool; the tool connecting member being connected to the movable member such that forces upon the tool connecting member are applied to the movable member; means for positioning the movable member in the normal position; biasing means for biasing the movable member toward the normal position established by the means for positioning, said biasing means being adjustable to vary the bias and thereby vary the sensitivity of the clutch to forces applied to the movable member by way of the connection to the tool connecting member; and sensing means for sensing movement of the movable member away from the normal position. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a means for varying the bias of the biasing means in order to vary the sensitivity of the system to forces applied to a tool connected to the tool connecting member. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the biasing means includes a sealed gas pressure chamber within the cavity, and the biasing means is variable by varying the gas pressure within the chamber. 4. A programmable breakaway clutch system for connecting a tool to the end of a robot arm comprising: a first member fixed for movement with the robot arm; a second member fixed for movement with the tool; motion detecting means for detecting relative motion between the first and second members; gas pressure controlled biasing means for resisting relative motion between the first and second members and being connected to a source of gas pressure; and means for controlling the source of gas pressure to vary the gas pressure between a higher pressure and a lower pressure in order to vary the resistance to relative motion provided by the biasing means, thereby varying the sensitivity of the clutch to external forces applied to the tool. 