An object is scanned first with a flying light spot from a variable-intensity light-spot projector, and the reflected light is used as signals to point by point modify the output of the projector in accordance with the intensity of the respective reflective-light signal. Thereupon the object is scanned a second time and the projector instructed to apply less light than before to those points of the object from which a strong reflected-light signal was received during the first scan, and to apply more light to points from which a weak reflected-light signal was received during the first scan.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting three-dimensional information, comprising the steps of: projecting a variable-intensity flying spot of light onto an object to be scanned; effecting a first scan by causing relative movement between object and light spot; receiving light-intensity signals in a single reflected light ray from the object point-by-scanned-point and modifying the intensity of the light spot in accordance with each received signal; effecting a second scan by causing relative movement between object and light spot; and reducing the light-spot intensity during the second scan at such points of the object where the signal was strong during the first scan, and increasing the light-spot intensity during the second scan at such points where the signal was weak during the first scan, said steps of effecting a first scan and a second scan comprising measurements of a multiplicity of points independent of light intensity at the object, so that accuracy of said measurements is not influenced by the light intensity at the object, the light-spot intensity during said second scan being dependent on said light-intensity signals of said first scan for preventing inaccuracy due to measurement delay and lag in modifying by a distance equal to scan velocity multiplied by measurement delay time. 2. In an arrangement for detecting three-dimensional information, a combination comprising: means for projecting a variable-intensity flying spot of light onto a object to be scanned; and means for receiving during a first scanning of the object, light-intensity signals in a single reflected light ray back from the object, point-by-scanned-point and for modifying the intensity of the projected light spot in accordance with each such signal received, for reducing, during the subsequent second scan, the light-spot intensity at such points of the object where the signal was strong during the first scan, and for increasing the light-spot intensity during the second scan at such points of the object where the signal was weak during the first scan, said first scan and second scan comprising measurements of a multiplicity of points independent of light intensity at the object so that accuracy of said measurements is not influenced by the light intensity at the object, the light-spot intensity during said second scan being dependent on said light-intensity signals of said first scan for preventing inaccuracy due to measurement delay and lag in modifying by a distance equal to scan velocity multiplied by measurement delay time. 3. A combination as defined in claim 2, wherein said projection means comprises a variable light-intensity flying light spot projector. 4. A combination as defined in claim 2, wherein said receiving means comprises a camera. 5. A combination as defined in claim 2, wherein said reducing means comprises a control logic. 6. A combination as defined in claim 3, wherein said receiving means comprises a camera; and said reducing means comprises a control logic connected between said camera and said projector. 