A rotative electrical connector is provided that allows connection of wires to a movable member so that the member can be moved without disturbing the electrical connection or fatiguing the electrical wire. The connector includes a spherical conductive member attached to the electrical wire and a spherical shell encasing the spherical member, which, in turn, is connected to a second electrical lead. Preferably, a conductive lubricant, such as a conductive grease is inserted into the space between the outer surface of the spherical member and the interior surface of the spherical shell so that there is an electrical connection between the spherical member and the shell. More than one electrical lead can be accommodated by using additional spherical members attached to the additional electrical leads, each of them encompassed in a separate conductive shell, the spherical members and spherical shells being insulated from one another but mechanically connected to one another.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A rotative electrical connector for electrically connecting a plurality of wires including: a first inner spherical conductive member electrically connected to a first wire; an outer spherical shell substantially encompassing said spherical member, said shell electrically connected to a second wire; means for electrically connecting said spherical member to said spherical shell; a first conductive rod affixed to said spherical member, said first wire being connected to said first conductive rod; a second conductive rod surrounding said first conductive rod, said second conductive rod being insulated from said first conductive rod; a second inner spherical conductive member affixed to a first end of said second conductive rod, said second inner spherical conductive member having a bore formed therethrough through which said first conductive rod passes, said first conductive rod being insulated from said second inner spherical conductive member; means for attaching a third wire to said second conductive rod; an outer spherical bearing assembly substantially surrounding said second inner spherical conductive member, said second inner spherical conductive member being rotatable within said outer spherical bearing assembly; means for electrically connecting said second inner spherical conductive member with said outer spherical bearing assembly; and means for connecting a fourth wire to said spherical outer bearing assembly so that an electrical connection is maintained between said third wire and said fourth wire. 2. The electrical connector of claim 1, wherein an inner surface of said outer spherical shell is conductive and said means for electrical connection is conductive grease that fills the area between said spherical member and said spherical shell. 3. The electrical connector of claim 1, wherein an inner surface of said spherical shell is conductive and is in contact with said spherical member. 4. The electrical connector of claim 1, wherein said means for electrically connecting said second inner spherical conductive member and said spherical outer bearing assembly comprises a conductive lubricant in the space between the second inner spherical conductive member and the spherical outer being assembly. 5. The electrical connector of claim 4, further including an insulating member interposed between said outer spherical shell and said spherical outer bearing assembly to maintain a predetermined spacing between said outer spherical shell and said outer spherical bearing assembly. 6. A rotative electrical connector for connecting a first wire to a second wire and a third wire to a fourth wire comprising: a first conductive spherical member; means for attaching said first wire to said first spherical member; a first spherical shell substantially encompassing said first spherical member; means for attaching said first spherical shell to said second wire; a second conductive spherical member; means for connecting said third wire to said second spherical member; a second spherical shell substantially encompassing said second spherical member; means for connecting said fourth wire to said second spherical shell; insulating means attached to said first and second spherical members for mechanically connecting said first and second spherical members, said insulating means being a flexible conduit; and means for electrically connecting said first spherical member to said first spherical shell and said second spherical member to said second spherical shell. 7. The connector of claim 6, wherein said first and second spherical shells are comprised of first and second halves removably affixed to one another. 8. The electrical connector of claim 6, wherein said means for connecting said spherical member to its respective spherical shell is a conductive lubricant placed between said spherical member and the interior of said surface of said spherical shell. 9. The electrical connector of claim 6, wherein said first conductive spherical member has a bore formed therethrough in register with a first end of said flexible conduit. 10. The connector of claim 9, wherein said second conductive spherical member has a bore formed therethrough in register with a second end of said flexible conduit. 