A swipe scanner for scanning a graphic image printed on a surface. The surface has a position-coding pattern imposed with the graphic image. The swipe scanner comprises: (a) a first image sensor positioned for imaging portions of the surface during a swipe of the surface, each imaged portion containing part of the position-coding pattern; (b) a second image sensor for capturing, during the swipe, portions of the graphic image; and (c) a processor. The processor is configured for: determining absolute positions of the swipe scanner using the parts of the position-coding pattern; and (d) using the absolute positions to assemble the captured portions of the graphic image into a scanned graphic image.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A swipe scanner for scanning a graphic image printed on a surface, said surface having a position-coding pattern imposed with the graphic image, said swipe scanner comprising: at least one first image sensor positioned for imaging portions of said surface during a swipe of the surface, each imaged portion containing part of the position-coding pattern; at least one second image sensor for capturing, during said swipe, portions of the graphic image; and a processor configured for: determining absolute positions of the swipe scanner using said parts of the position-coding pattern; and using the absolute positions to assemble said captured portions of said graphic image into a scanned graphic image, wherein each imaged part of position-coding pattern encodes orientation data identifying an orientation of the position-coding pattern, and wherein said processor is configured to use each imaged part of the position-coding pattern to determine the orientation of the scanner relative to the position-coding pattern, and to use said orientation together with said absolute positions to assemble said captured portions irrespective of swiping said scanner in a plurality of different directions during scanning. 2. The swipe scanner of claim 1, further comprising a motion sensor for sensing relative motion of the scanner. 3. The swipe scanner of claim 2, wherein said processor is configured to use relative motion data together with said absolute positions to assemble said captured portions into said scanned image. 4. The swipe scanner of claim 2, wherein said motion sensor comprises said first image sensor. 5. The swipe scanner of claim 4, wherein said motion sensor is an optical mouse sensor. 6. The swipe scanner of claim 1, wherein said position-coding pattern further identifies an identity, said identity identifying said graphic image, said surface or a region of said surface. 7. The swipe scanner of claim 1, further comprising communication means for communicating with a computer system. 8. The swipe scanner of claim 1, wherein said second image sensor is a linear image sensor. 9. The swipe scanner of claim 8, wherein said second image sensor extends substantially a width of said scanner. 10. A handheld device comprising the swipe scanner according to claim 1. 11. The handheld device of claim 10, which is selected from the group comprising: a mobile phone and a personal digital assistant. 