An arm structure includes either two or three links pivotally connected to one another with a hand or end effector at the distal end of the distal link. Straight line movement of the pivoting mounting place of the end effector is provided from a rotating drive wheel coaxial with the pivoting of the proximal end of the proximal link. A drive wheel coaxially with the pivot of the proximal end of the proximal link causes the first and second links to pivot about their pivot axis. This pivoting causes the first link to pivot about its proximal end and causes the end effector to pivot in the two link version and causes the second and third links to pivot about their pivot axis in the three link version. A housing can be present intermediate the ends of the first link to provide a gearing adjustment. Generally, .theta. and Z motors also are present. The arm structure is useful for moving wafers, hard computer discs, and the like for processing, loading, unloading, etc.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. An arm structure, comprising: a first longitudinally extending link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion; a second longitudinally extending link equal in effective length to said first link, said second link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion; a first housing mounted to said first link intermediate said proximal and distal end portions thereof for rotation about an axis perpendicular to said first link, said first housing having a first pulley surface and a second pulley surface coaxially thereon, said first and second pulley surfaces being longitudinally spaced from one another along said first housing; a relatively static structure having a first cylindrical surface having an axis parallel to that of said first housing, said relatively static structure being located at said proximal end portion of said first link, said first link being rotatably mounted to said relatively static structure about an axis of rotation parallel to that of said first housing; a drive wheel coaxial with said first cylindrical surface and aligned opposite said first pulley surface; a post mounted to said distal end portion of said first link parallel to the axis of said first housing and having a second cylindrical surface thereon having an axis parallel to that of said first housing; a second housing rotatably mounted to said post having an axis of rotation parallel to that of said first housing, said second housing having a third pulley surface aligned opposite said first cylindrical surface and a fourth pulley surface aligned opposite said second pulley surface; a third housing rotatably mounted to said distal end portion of said second link, having an axis of rotation parallel to that of said first housing and having a fifth pulley surface aligned opposite said second cylindrical surface; an end effector attached to said third housing and extending at a selected angle to a line passing through and perpendicular to the axis of said first cylindrical surface and the axis of said third housing; first rotating means for applying a rotational force between said drive wheel and said first pulley surface; second rotating means for applying a rotational force between said second pulley surface and said fourth pulley surface; third rotating means for applying a rotational force between said third pulley surface and said first cylindrical surface, said first cylindrical surface having a circumferential extension twice that of said third pulley surface; and fourth rotating means for applying a rotational force between said second cylindrical surface and said fifth pulley surface, said fifth pulley surface having a circumferential extension twice that of said second cylindrical surface. 2. An arm structure as set forth in claim 1, further including: rotational drive means for rotating said relatively static structure about said first pivot axis. 3. An arm structure as set forth in claim 2, further including: linear drive means for moving said relatively static structure linearly along said first pivot axis. 4. An arm structure as set forth in claim 1, further including: linear drive means for moving said relatively static structure linearly along said first pivot axis. 5. An arm structure as set forth in claim 1, wherein said rotating means each comprise belt means. 6. An arm structure, comprising: a first longitudinally extending link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion; a second longitudinally extending link twice the effective length of said first link, said second link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion; a third longitudinally extending link equal in effective length to said first link, said third link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion; a first housing mounted to said first link intermediate said proximal and distal end portions thereof for rotation about an axis perpendicular to said first link, said first housing having a first pulley surface and a second pulley surface coaxially thereon, said first and second pulley surfaces being longitudinally spaced from one another along said first housing; a relatively static structure having a first cylindrical surface having an axis parallel to that of said first housing, said relatively static structure being located at said proximal end portion of said first link, said first link being rotatably mounted to said relatively static structure for rotation about an axis of rotation parallel to that of said first housing; a drive wheel coaxial with said first cylindrical surface and aligned opposite said first pulley surface; a first post mounted to said distal end portion of said first link parallel to the axis of said first housing and having a second cylindrical surface thereon having an axis parallel to that of said first housing; a second housing rotatably mounted to said first post and having an axis of rotation parallel to that of said first housing, said second housing having a third pulley surface aligned opposite said first cylindrical surface and a fourth pulley surface aligned opposite said second pulley surface; a second post mounted to said distal end portion of said second link parallel to the axis of said first housing and having a third cylindrical surface thereon having an axis parallel to that of said first housing; a third post mounted to said distal end portion of said third link parallel to the axis of said first housing; a third housing rotatably mounted to said third post and having an axis of rotation parallel to that of said first housing and having a fifth pulley surface aligned opposite said third cylindrical surface; a fourth housing rotatably mounted to said second post and having an axis of rotation parallel to that of said first housing and having a sixth pulley surface aligned opposite said second cylindrical surface; an end effector extending from said third housing at a selected angle to a line passing through and perpendicular to the axis of said first cylindrical surface and the axis of said third housing; first rotating means for applying a rotational force between said drive wheel and said first pulley surface; second rotating means for applying a rotational force between said second pulley surface and said fourth pulley surface; third rotating means for applying a rotational force between said third pulley surface and said first cylindrical surface, said first cylindrical surface having a circumferential extension twice that of said third pulley surface; fourth rotating means for applying a rotational force between said second cylindrical surface and said sixth pulley surface, said second cylindrical surface and said sixth pulley surface having equal circumferential extensions; and fifth rotating means for applying a rotational force between said third cylindrical surface and said fifth pulley surface, said fifth pulley surface having a circumferential extension twice that of said third cylindrical surface. 7. An arm structure as set forth in claim 6, further including: rotational drive means for rotating said relatively static structure about said first pivot axis. 8. An arm structure as set forth in claim 7, further including: linear drive means for moving said relatively static structure linearly along said first pivot axis. 9. An arm structure as set forth in claim 6, further including: linear drive means for moving said relatively static structure linearly along said first pivot axis. 10. An arm structure as set forth in claim 6, wherein said rotating means each comprise belt means. 11. An arm structure, comprising: a first longitudinally extending link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion; a second longitudinally extending link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion, said second link having twice the effective length of said first link; a third longitudinally extending link equal in effective length to said first link, said third link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion; an end effector; a relatively static structure located at said proximal end portion of said first link; first pivot means for mounting said proximal end portion of said first link to said relatively static structure for rotation about a first pivot axis; second pivot means for mounting said proximal end portion of said second link to said distal end portion of said first link for rotation about a second pivot axis parallel to said first pivot axis; third pivot means for mounting said end effector to said distal end portion of said third link for rotation about a third pivot axis parallel to said first pivot axis; fourth pivot means for mounting said proximal end portion of said third link to said distal end portion of said second link for rotation about a fourth axis parallel to said first pivot axis; and drive means for coordinately pivoting said first link about said first pivot axis, said second link about said second pivot axis, said third link about said fourth pivot axis and said end effector about said third pivot axis at relative rotation ratios of 1:2:2:1 such that said third axis moves linearly along a line passing through and perpendicular to said first pivot axis and to said third pivot axis and said end effector is maintained at a selected angle to said line. 12. An arm structure as set forth in claim 11, further including: rotational drive means for rotating said relatively static structure about said first pivot axis. 13. An arm structure as set forth in claim 12, further including: linear drive means for moving said relatively static structure linearly along said first pivot axis. 14. An arm structure as set forth in claim 11, further including: linear drive means for moving said relatively static structure linearly along said first pivot axis. 15. An arm structure as set forth in claim 11, wherein said rotating means each comprise belt means. 16. An arm structure as set forth in claim 11, wherein said rotating means each comprise wire means. 17. An arm structure, comprising: a first longitudinally extending link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion; a second longitudinally extending link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion, said second link having an equal effective length as said first link; an end effector; a relatively static structure located at said proximal end portion of said first link; static first pivot link for mounting said proximal end portion of said first link to said relatively static structure for free rotation about a first pivot axis; second pivot means for mounting said proximal end portion of said second link to said distal end portion of said first link for rotation about a second pivot axis parallel to said first pivot axis; third pivot means for mounting said end effector to said distal end portion of said second link for rotation about a third pivot axis parallel to said first pivot axis; motor means; a drive wheel coaxial with said first pivot axis and driven by said motor means, said drive wheel being free from connection with said first pivot means; and first pivot axis rotating means for applying a rotational force from said second pivot axis to said first pivot axis to rotate said first link about said first pivot axis; and second pivot axis rotating means for applying a rotational force from said drive wheel to said second pivot axis to rotate said links about said second pivot axis; third pivot axis rotating means for applying a rotational force from said second pivot axis to said third pivot axis to rotate said end effector about said third pivot axis; wherein said rotating means includes coordinating means for coordinating the pivoting of said first link about said first pivot axis, said second link about said second pivot axis at relative rotation ratios of 1:2:1 such that said third axis moves linearly along a line passing through and perpendicular to said first pivot axis and to said third pivot axis and said end effector is maintained at a selected angle to said line. 18. An arm structure as set forth in claim 17, wherein said second pivot axis rotating means includes reduction means for reducing the rotation of said second pivot axis from that of said drive wheel. 19. An arm structure as set forth in claim 17, further including: rotational drive means for rotating said relatively static structure about said first pivot axis. 20. An arm structure as set forth in claim 19, further including: linear drive means for moving said relatively static structure linearly along said first pivot axis. 21. An arm structure as set forth in claim 17, further including: linear drive means for moving said relatively static structure linearly along said first pivot axis. 22. An arm structure as set forth in claim 17, wherein said rotating means each comprise belt means. 23. An arm structure as set forth in claim 17, wherein said rotating means each comprise wire means. 24. An arm structure, comprising: a first longitudinally extending link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion; a second longitudinally extending link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion, said second link having twice the effective length of said first link; a third longitudinally extending link equal in effective length to said first link, said third link having a proximal end portion and a distal end portion; an end effector; a relatively static structure located at said proximal end portion of said first link; first pivot means for mounting said proximal end portion of said first link to said relatively static structure for rotation about a first pivot axis; second pivot means for mounting said proximal end portion of said second link to said distal end portion of said first link for rotation about a second pivot axis parallel to said first pivot axis; third pivot means for mounting said end effector to said distal end portion of said third link for rotation about a third pivot axis parallel to said first pivot axis; fourth pivot means for mounting said proximal end portion of said third link to said distal end portion of said second link for rotation about a fourth axis parallel to said first pivot axis; drive means for applying a rotational force to rotate said first and second links about said second pivot axis; first pivot axis rotating means for applying a rotational force from said second pivot axis to said first pivot axis to rotate said first link about said first pivot axis; fourth pivot axis rotating means for applying a rotational force from said second pivot axis to said fourth pivot axis to rotate said second and third links about said fourth pivot axis; and third pivot axis rotating means for applying a rotational force from said fourth pivot axis to said third pivot axis to rotate said end effector about said third pivot axis; wherein said rotating means includes coordinating means for coordinating the pivoting of said first link about said first pivot axis, said second link about said second pivot axis, said third link about said fourth pivot axis and said end effector about said third pivot axis at relative rotation ratios of 1:2:2:1 such that said third axis moves linearly along a line passing through and perpendicular to said first pivot axis and to said third pivot axis and said end effector is maintained at a selected angle to said line. 25. An arm structure as set forth in claim 23, wherein said drive means comprises: a drive wheel coaxial with said first pivot axis; second pivot axis rotating means for applying a rotational force from said drive wheel for rotating said first and second links about said second pivot axis. 26. An arm structure as set forth in claim 25, wherein said second pivot axis rotating means includes reduction means for reducing the rotation of said second pivot axis from that of said drive wheel. 27. An arm structure as set forth in claim 24, further including: rotational drive means for rotating said relatively static structure about said first pivot axis. 28. An arm structure as set forth in claim 27, further including: linear drive means for moving said relatively static structure linearly along said first pivot axis. 29. An arm structure as set forth in claim 24, further including: linear drive means for moving said relatively static structure linearly along said first pivot axis. 30. An arm structure as set forth in claim 24, wherein said rotating means each comprise belt means. 31. An arm structure as set forth in claim 24, wherein said rotating means each comprise wire means. 32. An arm structure as set forth in claim 18, wherein said reduction means is located and supported by said first longitudinally extending link between said first pivot axis and said second pivot axis. 