The trajectory of a surgical instrument or tool used for a stereotactic medical procedure is controlled by a passive apparatus having two pivots into which the tool may be inserted. The pivots, which serve as end effectors, are placed at points along a selected trajectory. The pivots are mounted to members attached to carriages. The carriages allow movement in a plane, whereas the members may move perpendicular to the plane. Indicia allow the pivots to be moved to a desired point and fasteners then secure the pivots in place, while allowing the pivots free rotation relative to two perpendicular axes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stereotactic trajectory apparatus comprising: a support structure; and first and second surgical tool holders supported by said support structure and independently movable relative to said support structure to positions corresponding to different x, y, z coordinates, the x, y, z coordinates corresponding respectively to orthogonal x, y, and z axes, wherein said first and second surgical tool holders are respectively first and second pivots, each pivot defining a point on a surgical tool trajectory, and wherein each pivot is rotatable about perpendicular first and second pivot axes without changing the x, y, z coordinates of the corresponding point. 2. The stereotactic trajectory apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first pivot axis of each pivot is perpendicular to an xz plane in which the x and z axes extend and said second pivot axis of each pivot is parallel to the xz plane. 3. The stereotactic trajectory apparatus of claim 2 further comprising first and second members each having top and bottom portions, said members being movably attached respectively to corresponding first and second carriages at their bottom portions, and to said first and second surgical tool holders at their top portions, each carriage being supported by the support structure for movement in a plane perpendicular to the lengthwise direction of the corresponding member. 4. The stereotactic trajectory apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first and second members extend lengthwise in parallel and said first and second carriages are mounted for movement in tracks on said support structure. 5. The stereotactic trajectory apparatus of claim 4 wherein said tracks of said support structure further comprises parallel first and second carriage tracks extending along the z axis in which said first and second carriages move and each of said first and second carriage tracks is movable along the x axis. 6. The stereotactic trajectory apparatus of claim 5 wherein said tracks of said further comprises an x track extending along the x axis and in which each of said first and second carriage tracks is movable. 7. The stereotactic trajectory apparatus of claim 6 wherein said support structure further comprises fasteners for selectively fixing said first and second carriages respectively to said first and second carriage tracks, fasteners for selectively fixing said first and second carriage tracks to said x track, and fasteners for selectively fixing said first and second members respectively to said first and second carriages. 8. The stereotactic trajectory apparatus of claim 7 further comprising indicia of said support structure indicative of the x, y, z coordinates of said points defined by said first and second pivots. 9. The stereotactic trajectory apparatus of claim 5 wherein each of said pivots is always freely movably about its first and second pivot axes unless a surgical tool is disposed within the pivot. 10. The stereotactic trajectory apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of said pivots is always freely movably about its first and second pivot axes unless a surgical tool is disposed within the pivot. 11. The stereotactic trajectory apparatus of claim 1 further comprising indicia on said support structure the x, y, z coordinates of said points defined by said first and second pivots. 12. The stereotactic trajectory apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a third surgical tool holder supported by said support structure and movable independently of said first and second surgical tool holders to positions corresponding to different x, y, z coordinates, and wherein said third surgical tool holder is a third pivot defining a point on a surgical tool trajectory and is rotatable about perpendicular first and second pivot axes without changing the x, y, z coordinates of the corresponding points. 13. A method comprising the steps of: identifying a target P.sub.0 and incision point P.sub.1 for performing a medical stereotactic procedure; determining a trajectory having P.sub.0 and P.sub.1 thereon for a surgical tool; securing independently movable first and second pivots respectively at points P.sub.2 and P.sub.3 on the trajectory, points P.sub.2 and P.sub.3 determined by positioning the first and second pivots using indicia linearly related to x, y, z coordinates corresponding to orthogonal x, y, z axes, each of the first and second pivots being rotatable about perpendicular first and second pivot axes without changing the x, y, z coordinates of the corresponding respective one of points P.sub.2 and P.sub.3 ; and placing a surgical tool through the first and second pivots to extend along the trajectory to within the patient. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the steps of, before the securing step: moving first and second carriages to positions corresponding to the x, z coordinates respectively of P.sub.2 and P.sub.3 ; and moving first and second members movably mounted respectively to said first and second carriages to locations such that the first and second pivots mounted respectively thereon are at the y coordinates respectively of P.sub.2 and P.sub.3. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the first and second carriages are moved in an xz plane, in which the x and z axes are disposed, by movement along tracks. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the securing step includes securing the first and second carriages and securing the first and second members. 17. The method of claim 13 further comprising: securing an independently movable third pivot at point P.sub.4 on the trajectory, point P.sub.4 determined by positioning the third pivot using the indicia, the third pivot being rotatable about perpendicular first and second pivot axes associated with the third pivot and without changing the x, y, z coordinates of point P.sub.4 ; and placing a surgical tool through the third pivot, as well as the first and second pivots, to extend along the trajectory to within the patient. 