A technique is provided for calibrating a SCARA type robot (10) comprised of a first rotatable link (20) and a second link (32), rotatably connected at one end to the first link, and carrying a tool (40) at the other end thereof. The calibration technique relies on the fact that SCARA robots are controlled using a kinematic model, which, when accurate, allows the links to be placed in both a first and second angular configuration at which the tool (40) carried by the second link remains at the same position. To calibrate the kinematic model, the links are placed in the first configuration to locate the tool above a fixed datum point (60). Then, the links are placed in the second angular configuration to nominally locate the tool again in registration with the datum point. The error in the kinematic model is computed from the shift in the position of the tool from the datum point when the links are switched from the first to the second angular configuration. The kinematic model is then compensated in accordance with the computed error. These steps are repeated until the error reaches zero, at which time the kinematic model of the SCARA robot is calibrated.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calibrating a SCARA robot having a first rotatable link, and a second tool-carrying link, rotatably mounted thereto, to compensate for an error in the robot, attributable to an uncertainty in the known length of at least one of the links, comprising the steps of: (a) placing the links in a first angular configuration, at which a predetermined interior angle is measured between the links, to place the tool at a known location; (b) placing the links in a second angular configuration, at which an interior angle, equal to said predetermined interior angle, is measured between the links, so that the tool is nominally placed at the same location as before; (c) measuring the distance of the tool from the known location once the links have been placed in the second angular configuration; (d) determining the error attributable to the uncertainty in the known length of at least one of the links in accordance with the measured distance and adjusting the robot in accordance with the error; and (e) repeating the steps of (a)-(d) until the measured distance approaches zero. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the known location is the center of the viewing area of a stationary television camera and wherein the measuring step comprises the step of processing the output signal of the camera to determine the shift in the position of the tool from the center of the viewing area of the camera when the links are switched from the first to the second configuration. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the second tool-carrying link also carries a television camera, and wherein the robot is compensated for an error attributable to the uncertainty in the known location of the camera on the second link by performing the steps of: (a) placing the links in a first angular configuration, at which a second predetermined interior angle is measured between the links, to center the television camera carried by the second link directly above a fixed datum point; (b) placing the links in a second angular configuration, at which an interior angle, equal to said second predetermined interior angle, is measured between the links, to nominally center the camera again above the datum point; (c) processing the output signal of the television camera to determine the shift in the position of the datum point, as seen by the camera, upon switching the links from the first to the second angular configuration; (d) determining the error in the known position of the camera in accordance with the shift in the position of the datum point as seen by the camera; and (e) repeating the steps of (a)-(d) until the error approaches zero. 4. A method of operating a SCARA robot having a first rotatable link, and a second tool-carrying link rotatably connected thereto, comprising the steps of: (a) calibrating the robot for errors attributable to an uncertainty in the known length of at least one of the links, in accordance with the shift in the position of the tool relative to a known location when the links are switched between a first angular configuration at which the tool is placed at the known location such that a predetermined interior angle is measured between the links, and a second angular configuration, such that an interior angle, equal to said predetermined interior angle, is measured between the links and such that the tool is nominally placed again at the known location; and (b) rotating the links to move the tool to perform a desired task therewith. 5. The method according to claim 4 wherein the calibrating step comprises the steps of: (a) placing the links of the robot in the first angular configuration to locate the tool in registration with a datum point; (b) placing the links in the second angular configuration to nominally place the tool again in registration with the datum point; (c) determining the error attributable to the uncertainty in the known length of at least one of the links in accordance with the shift in the position of the tool relative to the datum point when the links have been switched from the first to the second angular configuration; and (d) repeating the steps of (a)-(c) until the error approaches zero. 6. The method according to claim 4 wherein the tool is a vacuum pickup tool which is moved to pick up a part and then place it on a substrate. 7. Apparatus for calibrating a SCARA robot having a first rotatable link and a second tool-carrying link rotatably mounted thereto, to compensate for errors in the robot attributable to an uncertainty in the known length of at least one of the links, comprising: means for placing the links in a first angular configuration, at which a predetermined interior angle is measured between the links, to place the tool at a known location; means for placing the links in a second angular configuration, at which an interior angle, equal to said predetermined interior angle, is measured between the links, so that the tool is nominally placed again at the known location; means for measuring the distance of the tool from the known location once the links have been switched to the second angular configuration; and means for determining the error in the robot in accordance with the measured distance and for adjusting the robot in accordance with the determined error. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said measuring means comprises: a television camera mounted at the known location for producing an image of the tool; and a vision system coupled to the television camera for processing the image thereof to determine the distance of the tool from the camera. 