A method of forming a photovoltaic cell module uses a cell press having a table and a plate that is spaced from and moveable relative to the table. The method includes supporting the cell with the plate between the plate and the table. A substrate and a tie layer disposed on the substrate are introduced between the cell and the table with the substrate supported by the table and with the tie layer facing the cell. One of the cell and the table are moved toward the other until the cell contacts the tie layer. A vacuum is applied between the cell and the tie layer to evacuate the space between the cell and the tie layer as the cell contacts the tie layer. This evacuation eliminates the possibility of air bubbles being formed between the cell and the tie layer as the cell contacts the tie layer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a photovoltaic cell module including a photovoltaic cell with the use of a cell press having a table, a lid, and a plate pneumatically coupled to the lid between the lid and the table and moveable relative to the lid toward and away from the table, said method comprising: disposing the photovoltaic cell between the plate and the table; supporting the photovoltaic cell with the plate; applying a vacuum between the lid and the plate to space the photovoltaic cell and the plate from the table; introducing a substrate and a tie layer between the photovoltaic cell and the table with the substrate supported by the table and with the tie layer supported by the substrate between the substrate and the photovoltaic cell with a space between the photovoltaic cell and the tie layer; moving one of the photovoltaic cell and the table toward the other until the photovoltaic cell contacts the tie layer; and applying a vacuum between the photovoltaic cell and the tie layer such that the space between the photovoltaic cell and the tie layer is evacuated as the photovoltaic cell contacts the tie layer. 2. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein moving one of the photovoltaic cell and table is further defined as moving one of the plate and the table toward the other. 3. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein moving one of the photovoltaic cell and the table further comprises applying a vacuum between the plate and the table while applying the vacuum between the photovoltaic cell and the tie layer to move the plate toward the table. 4. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein vacuum is applied between the lid and the plate before introducing the substrate and the tie layer between the photovoltaic cell and the table. 5. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the plate defines an aperture and wherein disposing the photovoltaic cell between the plate and the table is further defined as applying vacuum through the aperture between the aperture and the photovoltaic cell to pull the photovoltaic cell toward the plate. 6. The method as set forth in claim 1 further applying a vacuum between the plate and the table to move the plate toward the photovoltaic cell. 7. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the tie layer is further defined as an encapsulant and further comprising applying the encapsulant to the substrate by one of spray coating, flow coating, curtain coating, dip coating, extrusion coating, knife coating, screen coating, and stencil coating. 8. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the tie layer has a penetration of from 1.1 to 100 mm and a tack value of less than -0.6 g.sec. 9. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising removing the substrate, the tie layer, and the photovoltaic cell from the cell press and applying a second tie layer onto the photovoltaic cell and applying a second substrate onto the second tie layer. 10. The method as set forth in claim 1 the plate defines a plurality of apertures and wherein the photovoltaic cell is further defined as an array of photovoltaic cells and wherein supporting the photovoltaic cell is further defined as introducing the array of photovoltaic cells between the table and the plate with the photovoltaic cells aligned with the plurality of apertures of the plate. 11. The method as set forth in claim 4 further comprising relieving the vacuum between the lid and the plate after applying the vacuum between the plate and the table to allow the plate to move toward the table. 12. The method as set forth in claim 4 further comprising applying a vacuum between the lid and the plate after moving one of the photovoltaic cell and the table toward the other to move the plate away from the photovoltaic cell. 13. The method as set forth in claim 4 wherein the lid is moveable toward and away from the table and further comprising sealing the lid to the table prior to applying a vacuum between the photovoltaic cell and the tie layer. 14. The method as set forth in claim 5 further comprising moving one of the photovoltaic cell and the plate toward the other to pull the photovoltaic cell toward the plate when vacuum is applied through the aperture. 15. The method as set forth in claim 5 further comprising relieving the vacuum through the aperture of the plate after moving one of the photovoltaic cell and the table toward the other to release the photovoltaic cell from the plate. 16. The method as set forth in claim 15 further comprising moving one of the plate and the table away from the other after relieving the vacuum through the aperture of the plate. 17. The method as set forth in claim 16 wherein moving one of the plate and the table away from the other is further defined as applying a vacuum between the lid and the plate to move the plate toward the lid away from the table. 18. A method of forming a photovoltaic cell module including a photovoltaic cell with the use of a cell press having a table, a lid, and a plate that is pneumatically coupled to the lid and moveable relative to the lid toward and away from the table, the plate defining an aperture, said method comprising: disposing the photovoltaic cell between the plate and the table; moving one of the photovoltaic cell and the plate toward the other until the plate contacts the photovoltaic cell; applying a vacuum through the aperture between the aperture and the photovoltaic cell to pull the photovoltaic cell toward the plate; applying a vacuum between the lid and the plate to move the photovoltaic cell and the plate away from the table; introducing a substrate and a tie layer between the photovoltaic cell and the table with the substrate supported by the table and with the tie layer supported by the substrate between the substrate and the photovoltaic cell with a space between the photovoltaic cell and the tie layer; moving one of the photovoltaic cell and the table toward the other until the photovoltaic cell contacts the tie layer; and applying a vacuum between the photovoltaic cell and the tie layer such that the space between the photovoltaic cell and the tie layer is evacuated as the photovoltaic cell contacts the tie layer. 19. A cell press for forming a photovoltaic cell module, said cell press comprising: a table for supporting a substrate and a tie layer supported by the substrate; a plate spaced from said table; at least one of said table and said plate being moveable toward and away from the other; said plate being configured to suspend a photovoltaic cell spaced from said substrate and said tie layer to define a space between said photovoltaic cell and said tie layer; a lid pneumatically coupled to said plate defining a chamber between said lid and said plate and a first vacuum system in communication with said chamber for moving said plate relative to said lid; wherein said plate defines an aperture and wherein a second vacuum system is in communication with said aperture for drawing vacuum through said aperture to suspend the photovoltaic cell; and a third vacuum system in communication with said space between the photovoltaic cell and the tie layer for evacuating the space between the photovoltaic cell and the tie layer as at least one of said table and said plate moves toward the other. 20. The cell press as set forth in claim 19 further comprising a seal extending from the lid to the plate to hermetically seal the chamber between the lid to the plate. 21. The cell press as set forth in claim 19 wherein said lid is configured to hermetically seal to the table. 22. The cell press as set forth in claim 19 further comprising a shuttle plate and stops extending from table for precisely positioning the shuttle plate on the table. 