A bionic telescopic matrix unit is disclosed, which is composed of a slide shaft (6), a metal guide pipe (7), an elastic telescopic shell (2) and an electromagnetic coil (3). In the elastic telescopic shell (2), the slide shaft (6) made of a permanent magnet extends into the metal guide pipe (7) via the front end of said pipe (7) and comes into sliding contact with the inner tube wall of the metal guide pipe (7). The rear end of the metal guide pipe (7) and the front end of the slide shaft (6) protrude out through the front and back openings respectively of said elastic telescopic shell (2), said front and back openings of said elastic telescopic shell (2) being fixedly connected to the outer peripheral wall of the metal guide pipe (7) and to the slide shaft (6) respectively, thus connecting the metal guide pipe (7) with the slide shaft (6). The elongation length of the elastic telescopic shell (2) corresponds to the reciprocating stroke of the slide shaft (6) in the guide pipe (7); the electromagnetic coil (3) wound on the outer peripheral wall of the metal guide pipe (7) is covered by the elastic telescopic shell (2). Two ends of the electromagnetic coil (3) are duly connected with the positive and negative poles of a power supply. The telescopic matrix unit can simulate the functions of movement caused by animal muscle tissue extension, thus enabling greater flexibility and freedom in the mechanical limb movements of humanoid, etc. robots.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A bionic telescopic matrix unit which can be characterized by the following characteristics: The telescopic matrix unit is comprised of a slide shaft, a metal guide pipe, an elastic telescopic shell and an electromagnetic coil; in the elastic telescopic shell, the slide shaft made of a permanent magnet extends into the metal guide pipe via the front end of said pipe and comes into sliding contact with the inner tube wall of the metal guide pipe; the rear end of the metal guide pipe and the front end of the slide shaft protrude out through the back and front openings of the elastic telescopic shell, respectively; the front and back openings of the elastic telescopic shell are secured to the outer wall of the metal slide pipe and the slide shaft to connect said metal guide pipe to said slide shaft; the elongation length of the elastic telescopic shell matches the reciprocating stroke of the slide shaft in the metal guide pipe; the electromagnetic coil, which is wound around the outer peripheral wall of the metal guide pipe, is covered by the elastic telescopic shell; and the two ends of the electromagnetic coil are appropriately connected to the positive and negative poles of a power supply. 2. A bionic telescopic matrix unit as described in claim 1 which can be characterized by the following characteristics: The front end of the slide shaft of an adjacent telescopic matrix unit and the rear end of the metal guide pipe of another telescopic matrix unit are securely linked together in a coordinated manner to form a bionic telescopic chain; bionic telescopic chains are coordinated to form a bionic telescopic tissue; in a bionic telescopic tissue the electromagnetic coil of each telescopic matrix unit is connected in parallel to the two power supply input terminals of the bionic telescopic tissue, these power supply input terminals being matched with the power supply. 3. The bionic telescopic matrix unit as described in claim 2 which can be further characterized in that a locking pin is placed at the front end of the slide shaft of a telescopic matrix unit to be securely linked to the locking socket located at the rear end of the metal guide pipe of another telescopic matrix unit. 4. The bionic telescopic matrix unit as described in claim 2 which can be further characterized in that between two adjacent bionic telescopic chains, the telescopic matrix units of one bionic telescopic chain are lined up with the telescopic matrix units of the other bionic telescopic chain in a staggered manner. 5. The bionic telescopic matrix unit as described in claim 1 which can be further characterized in that the metal guide pipe is made of a titanium alloy. 6. The bionic telescopic matrix unit as described in claim 1 which can be further characterized in that the elastic telescopic shell is made of an abrasion resistant rubber. 7. The bionic telescopic matrix unit as described in claim 1 which can be further characterized in that the front and back openings of the elastic telescopic shell are secured to front and back retaining rings located on the slide shaft and the metal guide pipe, respectively, also matching the reciprocating stroke. 8. The bionic telescopic matrix unit as described in claim 1 which can be further characterized in that the core of the electromagnetic coil is made of copper. 