A rotatable barrel mounting assembly comprising a main base barrel adapter structure of electrical conducting material that is detachably connectable with a connection block for cooling fluid, electrical, inert gas and welding wire sources of a MIG torch main housing that can be manually or robot manipulated. The barrel adapter structure is formed with a socket for rotatably receiving a curved barrel mounting end structure and establishing connections with the cooling fluid, inert gas and welding wire sources for use by a welding tip at the outer end of the barrel. Electrical connection with the barrel mounting end structure is accomplished by a collet nut of insulating material carried by the main base adapter structure, and which is rotatably operable to move flexible collet finger contacts on the main base adapter structure into engagement with a surface of the barrel mounting end structure and also hold the barrel in an adjusted rotated position. Other finger elements are also moved by the collet nut into and out of a position for holding the barrel mounting end structure against disconnection. A retainer ring normally permits movement of the collet nut to a position enabling rotatable adjustment of the curved barrel mounting end structure, but opposes movement of the collet nut to a position enabling its disconnection.
Claims I claim: 1. A welding torch structure, comprising: a main base barrel adapter structure of electrical conducting material having a cylindrical open-ended receiving socket, and being provided with means respectively connectable with gas, water, welding wire and electric current supply sources; an elongate torch barrel of electrical conducting material mounting a welding tip at one end and being provided at its other end with a mounting end structure adapted for endwise axial insertion into a seated position in said socket to establish operative connections with said gas, water and welding wire sources; electric current conducting flexible contact means carried by said main base barrel adapter structure positioned to frictionally engage a surface portion of the seated barrel mounting end structure in a manner permitting relative movements between the main base adapter structure and the seated barrel mounting end structure; and manually operable means carried by said main base adapter structure for actuating the contact means into gripping engagement with said surface portion to hold said contact means and said surface portion against relative movement and to establish an operative electric connection with said electric current supply source. 2. A welding torch structure according to claim 1, in which: said welding torch barrel is formed with a curved intermediate section, an outer end straight section coaxial with said welding tip, and an inner end straight section coaxial with said mounting end structure. 3. A welding torch structure according to claim 2, in which: said main base adapter structure and said seated barrel mounting end structure are relatively freely rotatable about a common axis without angular restriction; and said welding tip is circumferentially relatively movable to angularly spaced operating positions lying in a fixed plane in right angled relation to said common axis. 4. A welding torch structure according to claim 3, in which: the plane of movement of said welding tip is determined by confronting radial planar abutment surfaces of engagement respectively formed on said main base adapter structure and said seated barrel mounting end structure. 5. A welding torch structure according to claim 2, in which: the operative gas and water connections between the main base adapter structure and the seated mounting end structure of the torch barrel include circumferentially extending adjacent laterally spaced flow channels respectively for water and gas; a pair of laterally spaced apart sealing O-rings are positioned between said channels; and a vent passage connects the space between said O-rings to atmosphere. 6. A welding torch structure according to claim 5, in which: said receiving socket has a smooth cylindrical side wall surface; said flow channels and associated O-rings are carried by said mounting end structures; and said O-rings peripherally resiliently engage the surrounding socket side wall surface. 7. A welding torch structure according to claim 5, in which: said vent passage is formed in the main base adapter structure. 8. A welding torch structure according to claim 2, in which: said flexible contact means comprises a plurality of circumferentially spaced flexible collet fingers; said seated barrel mounting end structure comprises a circumferentially extending peripheral flange having an outer cylindrical surface positioned for engagement by said flexible collet fingers; and said manually operable means includes a collet nut for actuating said collet fingers into gripping and holding relation with the cylindrical surface of said peripheral flange. 9. A welding torch structure according to claim 8, in which: an insulating outer cylindrical sleeve member is threadedly secured in surrounding relation to said main base adapter structure; said insulating sleeve has integrally formed flexible end finger members interposed between said collet fingers and said collet nut; said collet nut is of insulating material and is threadedly engaged with said outer insulating sleeve member for axial movements in response to rotation; and an inner tapered surface formed on said nut is engageable with the finger members of said insulating sleeve member and is operative to effect radial movement of said sleeve fingers and said collet fingers towards and away from the cylindrical surface of the peripheral flange in response to the collet nut rotation. 10. A welding torch structure according to claim 9, in which: said insulating sleeve fingers have inwardly directed end portions arranged in the gripping position of said collet fingers to extend over the peripheral flange of the barrel mounting end structure in a manner to oppose its axial disconnection from said main base adapter structure during a predetermined limited initial axial movement of said collet nut in a direction to release said collet fingers with respect to said peripheral flange, but upon further predetermined releasing movement of said collet nut being operative to release said insulation sleeve fingers with respect to said peripheral flange. 11. A welding torch structure according to claim 10, comprising: manually operable means mounted on said barrel mounting end structure for normally restricting the movement of said collet nut to its limited initial axial movement, but being manually operable to a position enabling said further predetermined releasing movement of the collet nut to a position releasing said insulation sleeve fingers with respect to said peripheral flange. 12. A welding torch structure according to claim 11, in which: the manually operable means for restricting the movement of said collet nut comprises a retaining ring threadedly mounted on said barrel mounting end structure; and said retaining ring has a peripheral projection extending into the path of axial movement of the collet nut, said projection being normally in spaced relation to the adjacent end of said collet nut. 13. A welding torch structure according to claim 12, wherein: said peripheral projection comprises a circumferentially extending peripheral flange formed on said retaining ring. 