Disclosed are methods, systems, and computer-readable media for determining stability of a neural system. The method includes tracking a function world line of an N element neural system within at least one behavioral space, determining whether the tracking function world line is approaching a psychological stability surface, and implementing a quantitative solution that corrects instability if the tracked function world line is approaching the psychological stability surface.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of maintaining stability of a neural system, the method comprising: tracking a function world line of an N element neural system within behavioral spaces; determining whether the tracking function world line is approaching a psychological stability surface; and if the tracked function world line is approaching the psychological stability surface, then implementing a quantitative solution that prevents instability by ensuring said tracked function world line does not intersect said psychological stability surface thereby maintaining stability of said neural system; wherein tracking the function world line further comprises tracking changes in an N dimensional psychological state vector (PSV). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the neural system is one of a natural and a synthetic neural system. 3. A method of determining stability of a neural system, the method comprising: tracking a function world line of an N element neural system within behavioral spaces; determining whether the tracking function world line is approaching a psychological stability surface; and if the tracked function world line is approaching the psychological stability surface, then implementing a quantitative solution that corrects instability, wherein the behavioral space is a 3 dimensional space comprising a planning axis, a self control axis and a resilience axis. 4. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a computer program having instructions for maintaining stability of a neural system, the instructions comprising: tracking a function world line of an N element neural system within behavioral spaces; determining whether the tracking function world line is approaching a psychological stability surface; and if the tracked function world line is approaching the psychological stability surface, then implementing a quantitative solution that prevents instability by ensuring said tracked function world line does not intersect said psychological stability surface thereby maintaining stability of said neural system; wherein tracking the function world line further comprises tracking changes in an N dimensional psychological state vector (PSV). 5. The computer-readable medium of claim 4, wherein the neural system is one of a natural and a synthetic neural system. 6. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a computer program having instructions for determining stability of a neural system, the instructions comprising: tracking a function world line of an N element neural system within behavioral spaces; determining whether the tracking function world line is approaching a psychological stability surface; and if the tracked function world line is approaching the psychological stability surface, then implementing a quantitative solution that corrects instability, wherein the behavioral space is a 3 dimensional space comprising a planning axis, a self control axis and a resilience axis. 