An intelligent security assessment system includes a multiplicity of sens for detecting intrusion into an area. Each of the sensors operates on a different principle to detect intrusion. For example, sound, vibration, infrared, microwave and light level sensors are used. A computing system receives the outputs of each of the sensors and is programmed to provide an output based upon an algorithm that minimizes the likelihood of a false indication of intrusion by the intrusion sensors. Each sensor has an on and an off state and the computing system assigns a weighting factor for each sensor that is in the on state. The computing system sums the weighting factors and compares this sum to a reference and then provides a further output when the sum exceeds the reference. This computing system output is utilized to activate an additional intrusion detector such as an ultrasonic detection system and also to activate a video surveillance camera for observance of the area where the intrusion is indicated.
Claims We claim: 1. A system comprising: m sensors, m being a positive integer, each for detecting intrusion into an area and each having an output, each said output having an on state and an off state; computing means connected to said outputs of each of said m sensors for determining whether or not each of said outputs is in said on state, for assigning a weighting factor to each said output that is in said on state, for calculating the sum of all said weighting factors, for comparing said sum to a reference and for providing an output when said sum exceeds said reference; n sensors, n being an integer, having an on state and an off state, for detecting intrusion into said area, operably coupled to said computing means for receiving said computing means output and being activated to said on state thereby. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a video camera operably coupled to said computing means. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein: said video camera has an on state and an off state and wherein said video camera is activated to said on state by said computing means. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein: each of said m sensors is a different type of intrusion sensor. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein: each of said m sensors is a sensor selected from the group comprising a microphone, a vibration sensor, an infrared motion detector, a microwave motion detector and an optical motion detector. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein: at least one of said n sensors is an ultrasonic motion detector. 7. The system of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 wherein said computing means comprises: a first central processing unit for performing said sum calculation; a second central processing unit for performing said comparison of said sum to said reference and for providing said output when said sum exceeds said reference; and a communication link operably coupled to said first and second central processing units. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein: said communication link comprises a radio frequency transmission link. 9. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a display operably coupled to said computing means for displaying a map of said area. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein: at least one of said m sensors comprises an ultrasonic motion detector. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein: said computing means is further for determining the range of each of the objects in said area and for determining whether or not any of the ranges has changed to thereby indicated motion within said area. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein: said computing means is further for plotting a point on said map corresponding to the location in said area wherein said motion is detected. 13. In an intrusion detection system having a plurality of different types of sensors for detecting intrusion into an area, each of said sensors having an output, the improvement comprising: computing means connected to said outputs of each of said plurality of sensors for minimizing the likelihood of a false indication of intrusion into said area, the outputs of each of said sensors having an on state and an off state; and further wherein said computing means is for determining whether or not each of said outputs is in said on state, assigning a weighting factor to each said ouput that is in said on state, calculating the sum of all said weighting factors, comparing said sum to a reference and providing an output when said sum exceeds said reference. 14. The improvement of claim 13 further comprising: at least one additional intrusion detector having an on state and an off state, connected to receive said computing means output, said computing means activating said at least one additional intrusion detector to said on state upon the occurrence of said output. 