A tracked robotic crawler capable of multiple movement moves is disclosed. In one embodiment, the tracked robotic crawler includes at least one frame unit, the frame unit having a continuous track rotatably coupled thereto. Disposed on the at least one frame unit is at least one articulated arm, the arm being movable relative to the frame unit in at least one dimension. The articulated arm helps to improve mobility of the tracked robotic crawler in various environments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tracked robotic crawler comprising: a plurality of frame units, each frame unit having a continuous track rotatably coupled to the frame unit with at least one surface of the continuous track being exposed to enable engagement with a surface for propulsion of the frame unit; at least one actuated linkage coupling the frame units in a series configuration, the actuated linkage having at least one actuated joint configured to provide controllable bending about at least one axis; and at least one arm disposed on one of the plurality of frame units to form an armed frame unit, said at least one arm being movable relative to the armed frame unit in at least one dimension to extend beyond an end of the armed frame unit to assist in control of pose and movement of the tracked robotic crawler over the surface, wherein said at least one arm is selectively movable to a position out of contact with the surface. 2. The tracked robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein each of the frame units are substantially contained within a perimeter defined by an inner surface of their corresponding continuous track. 3. The tracked robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the at least one arm is configured so that it can be moved into a stowed position where the at least one arm is substantially contained within a perimeter defined by an inner surface of the corresponding continuous track. 4. The tracked robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the armed frame unit comprises: a first drive unit coupled to the continuous track; a second drive unit coupled to the at least one arm; and a drive control system coupled to the first and second drive units and configured to coordinate movement of the continuous track and the at least one arm to provide propulsion of the tracked robotic crawler. 5. The tracked robotic crawler of claim 4, wherein the at least one actuated linkage is coupled to the drive control system to coordinate movement and pose of the tracked robotic crawler. 6. The tracked robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the at least one actuated linkage has sufficient torque to enable lifting of at least one of the frame units while being supported by at least one remaining frame unit. 7. The tracked robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the at least one arm is rotatable about a point of attachment to the armed frame unit. 8. The tracked robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the at least one arm is moveable in a two-dimensional plane substantially perpendicular to an axis of rotation of the continuous track of the armed frame unit. 9. The tracked robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the at least one arm has a plurality of actuated joints. 10. The tracked robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the at least one arm further comprises a tool affixed thereto at a distal end. 11. The tracked robotic crawler of claim 1, wherein the at least one arm is coupled near a front end of the armed frame unit and the at least one actuated linkage is coupled near a back end of the armed frame unit. 12. The tracked robotic crawler of claim 11, wherein the at least one arm is movable to extend past the front end of the armed frame unit. 13. A method of operating a tracked robotic crawler over a surface comprising the steps of: (a) providing a first frame and a second frame, each frame having a continuous track with an exposed area for engagement with the surface, wherein at least one continuous track is coupled to a drive source to provide rotation of the continuous track; (b) providing at least two articulated arms, an arm attached to each of the first frame and the second frame, the arms independently moveable in at least one dimension relative to each other and relative to their corresponding frames and selectively movable to a position out of contact with the surface; (c) providing an actuated multi-degree of freedom linkage arm coupled between the first frame and the second frame; and (d) coordinating rotation of the continuous track, movement of the articulated arms, and actuation of the multi-degree of freedom linkage arm to control pose and movement of the tracked robotic crawler over the surface and positioning the articulated arms to extend beyond respective ends of the first frame and the second frame so as to contact the surface thereby providing additional stability and/or traction to the tracked robotic crawler. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein step (d) comprises positioning the first frame and the second frame in a tank-like configuration where the first frame and the second frame are side by side and substantially parallel. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein step (d) comprises positioning the articulated arms to extend in the same direction past ends of the first frame and the second frame. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein step (d) comprises positioning the first frame and the second frame in a train-like configuration where the first frame and the second frame are aligned end to end. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein step (d) comprises positioning the articulated arms to extend past distal ends of the first frame and the second frame. 18. The method of claim 13 wherein step (d) comprises positioning the first frame and the second frame in an outside-climbing configuration where the first frame and the second frame are positioned with exposed portions of the continuous tracks facing toward each other and in contact with opposite outer surfaces of a structure to be climbed. 19. The method of claim 13 wherein step (d) comprises positioning the first frame and the second frame in a inside-climbing configuration where the first frame and the second frame are positioned with exposed portions of the continuous tracks facing away from each other and in contact with opposite inner surfaces of a structure to be climbed. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein step (d) comprises positioning the articulated arm on each frame unit in a position to contact the same inner surface of the structure as the corresponding exposed portion of the continuous track thereby providing additional stability and/or traction to the tracked robotic crawler. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein step (d) comprises positioning the articulated arm on each frame unit in a position to contact the inner surface of the structure opposite the corresponding exposed portion of the continuous track thereby providing additional stability and/or traction to the tracked robotic crawler. 22. The method of claim 14 wherein step (d) comprises: positioning the articulated arms to extend in a forward direction past the end of one of the first frame and the second frame; and deflecting the articulated arms inward to form a pointed configured. 23. The method of claim 14 wherein step (d) comprises: deflecting the articulated arms inward to interface with a convex surface thereby providing additional stability and/or traction to the tracked robotic crawler. 24. The method of claim 14 wherein step (d) comprises: deflecting the articulated arms outward to interface with a concave surface thereby providing additional stability and/or traction to the tracked robotic crawler. 