A system for closely controlling the standoff distance of a nozzle in a remotely controlled fluid jet abrasive cutting system. The system comprises a head assembly having a support section and a nozzle body. Control means move the head assembly along a desired cutting path relative to the workpiece. A nozzle is mounted in the nozzle body and oriented to dispense cutting fluid along an axis directed against the workpiece. The nozzle body and the support section are interconnected by means which function to bias the nozzle body relative to the mounting section in a direction along the cutting axis of the nozzle. The nozzle body is provided with a standoff member which is adapted to ride on a portion of the workpiece and which projects beyond the nozzle tip by a distance sufficient to hold the nozzle off of the workpiece by the desired standoff distance.
Claims We claim: 1. In a system for the remotely controlled cutting of a workpiece by abrasive jet cutting, the combination comprising: a head assembly having a support section and a nozzle body; control means for positioning said head assembly in proximity to a workpiece to be cut and for moving said head assembly along a desired cutting path; a nozzle mounted in said nozzle body and oriented to dispense cutting fluid from said nozzle along a cutting axis adapted to be directed against the workpiece; means interconnecting said nozzle body and said support section to bias said nozzle body relative to said support section in a direction along the cutting axis of said nozzle; and standoff means secured to said nozzle body and projecting away from said nozzle body by a distance sufficient to hold said nozzle off of said workpiece by a desired standoff distance, said standoff means terminating in a ski surface which is adapted to ride on a portion of said workpiece. 2. The combination of claim 1 wherein said standoff means has at least one chamfered surface in the direction of travel of said nozzle to facilitate movement of said standoff means over said workpiece. 3. The combination of claim 2 wherein said standoff means has at least two chamfered surfaces angularly disposed with respect to one another. 4. The combination of claim 1 wherein said standoff means comprises two leg sections extending on opposed sides of said nozzle. 5. The combination of claim 4 wherein the outer opposed edges of said leg sections are beveled to provide chamfered surfaces to facilitate movement of said standoff means across the workpiece. 6. The combination of claim 5 wherein the conforming ends of said leg sections are beveled to provide a chamfered surface. 7. In a system for the remotely controlled cutting of a workpiece by abrasive jet cutting, the combination comprising: a head assembly having a support section, a nozzle body and a catcher vessel having a receiving aperture, said nozzle body and said catcher vessel depending from said support section in a fixed spaced apart relationship in which the receiving aperture faces the nozzle body; control means for positioning said head assembly in proximity to a workpiece to be cut and for moving said head assembly along a desired cutting path; a nozzle mounted in said nozzle body and oriented to dispense cutting fluid from said nozzle along a cutting axis adapted to be directed against the workpiece and aligned with said receiving aperture; means interconnecting said nozzle body and catcher vessel with said support section to bias said nozzle body and catcher vessel relative to said support section in a direction along the cutting axis of said nozzle; and standoff means secured to said nozzle body between said nozzle body and said catcher vessel and projecting away from said nozzle body by a distance sufficient to hold said nozzle off of said workpiece by a desired standoff distance, said standoff means terminating in a ski surface which is adapted to ride on a portion of said workpiece. 8. The combination of claim 7 further comprising means for adjusting the fixed distance between said nozzle body and said catcher vessel in order to vary the distance between the tip of said nozzle and the receiving aperture of said catcher vessel. 9. The combination of claim 8 wherein said nozzle body and said catcher vessel are each secured to a flange member which is biased for movement relative to said support section, and wherein each of said catcher vessel and said nozzle body can be secured at different locations along said flange member. 10. The combination of claim 7 wherein said standoff means has at least one chamfered surface in the direction of travel of said nozzle to facilitate movement of said standoff means over said workpiece. 11. The combination of claim 10 wherein said standoff means has at least two chamfered surfaces angularly disposed with respect to one another. 12. The combination of claim 7 wherein said standoff means comprises two leg sections extending on opposed sides of said nozzle. 13. The combination of claim 12 wherein the outer opposed edges of said leg sections are beveled to provide chamfered surfaces to facilitate movement of said standoff means across the workpiece. 14. The combination of claim 13 wherein the bottom conforming ends of said leg sections are beveled to provide a chamfered surface. 