The present invention is a portable testing apparatus for field testing rotary shaft encoders. The rotary shaft encoder is mounted in connection to a motor disposed on a mounting panel whose direction and speed of rotation is controlled by a motor controller. The rotatable shaft of the rotary shaft encoder is coupled to the motor shaft via a shaft couple. A multiple wire connector is employed to connect to the plurality of connection wires of the rotary shaft encoder. Each connection wire of the rotary shaft encoder is connected to one of a plurality of single pole, multiple throw load selection switches. Thius permits connection of an operator selected one of a predetermined set of voltages and loads to each connection wire of the shaft encoder forming a circuit simulating its use. An output terminal connected to each connection wire of the rotary shaft encoded permits the signal on these corresponding connection wires to be monitored. In the preferred embodiment the testing apparatus is mounted in an attache which may be closed for transport and opened for use.
Claims I claim: 1. A testing apparatus for testing rotary shaft encoders having a rotatable shaft mounted within an encoder body and a plurality of connection wires comprising: a mounting means adapted to hold the encoder body of a rotary shaft encoder in a predetermined location and orientation; a shaft rotation means for generating rotary torque in an operator selected direction at an operator selected speed; a shaft coupling means adapted to couple the rotatable shaft of a rotary shaft encoder whose encoder body is held in said predetermined location and orientation by said mounting means and connected to said shaft rotation means for transmitting said rotary torque to the rotatable shaft of the rotary shaft encoder; a multiple wire connector adapted for connection to the plurality of connection wires of the rotary shaft encoder; a plurality of operator selectable load switch means, each connected to a corresponding wire of said multiple wire connector, for operator selected connection one of a predetermined set of voltages and loads to said corresponding wire of said multiple wire connector; and a plurality of output terminals, each connected to a corresponding wire of said multiple wire connector, for permitting connection to the corresponding wire of said multiple wire connector, thereby permitting the signal on the corresponding connection wire of the rotary shaft encoder to be monitored. 2. The testing apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of direct current power supplies, each direct current power supply generating a corresponding predetermined direct current voltage; and each of said plurality of operator selectable load switch means is connected to each of said plurality of direct current power supplies for permitting operator selected connection of one of said. predetermined direct current voltages to said corresponding connection wire of a rotary shaft encoder. 3. The testing apparatus of claim 2, wherein: each of said plurality of operator selectable load switch means includes a plurality of load resistors, each load resistor having first and second terminals and a corresponding unique electrical resistance therebetween, each of said operator selectable load switch means for selected connection of said corresponding connection wire of the rotary shaft encoder to said first terminal of one of said plurality of load resistors; and further comprising a load line selector switch connected to ground, to each of said plurality of direct current power supplies and to said second terminals of each of said load resistors for connecting a selected one of said predetermined direct current voltages or ground to said second terminals of all of said load resistors. 4. The testing apparatus of claim 3, wherein: each of said plurality of operator selectable load switch means permits the selection of no electrical connection to said corresponding connection wire of a rotary shaft encoder. 5. The testing apparatus of claim 3, wherein: each of said plurality of operator selectable load switch means permits the selection of ground connection to said corresponding connection wire of a rotary shaft encoder. 6. The testing apparatus of claim 3, wherein: each of said plurality of operator selectable load switch means includes a single pole, multiple throw rotary switch having connections disposed in order from a reference location for no electrical connection, followed by said load resistors in order from said load resistor having the least electrical resistance to said load resistor having the greatest electrical resistance, ground connection, followed by said direct current power supplies from said direct current power supply having the least predetermined direct current voltage to said direct current power supply having the greatest predetermined direct current voltage. 7. The testing apparatus of claim 2, further comprising: a voltage meter having a pair of input terminals for generating an operator perceivable indication of the voltage across said pair of input terminals; and a voltage meter switch connected to said plurality of direct current power supplies and said voltage meter for selectively coupling said predetermined direct current voltage of one of said plurality of direct current power supplies across said input terminals, whereby the voltage of said selected direct current power supply can be monitored. 8. The testing apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said multiple wire connector is selected from among a set of a plurality of multiple wire connectors, each multiple wire connector of said set adapted for connection to the connection wires of a unique type of rotary shaft encoder. 9. The testing apparatus of claim 1, wherein: said mounting means includes a height adjustment for said predetermined location whereby rotary shaft encoders of differing height can be accommodated. 10. A portable testing apparatus for field testing rotary shaft encoders having an encoder rotatable shaft mounted within an encoder body and a plurality of connection wires comprising: an attache having generally rectangular upper and lower shells hinged along one side thereof and adapted for selective closure along a side opposite to said one side, whereby said attache may be closed for transportation and opened for use; a lower mounting panel disposed in said lower shell of said attache, said lower mounting panel forming an interior space with said lower shell; a motor disposed on said lower mounting panel enclosed within said interior space having a motor rotatable shaft extending through an opening in said lower mounting panel; a mounting means disposed on said lower mounting panel proximate to said motor adapted to hold the encoder body of a rotary shaft encoder with the encoder rotatable shaft in a predetermined location and orientation with regard to said motor rotatable shaft; a motor control means disposed on said lower mounting panel having an operator speed control member extending through an opening in said lower mounting panel and an operator direction control member extending through an opening in said lower mounting panel, electrically connected to said motor for controlling said motor to rotate in a direction selected by said operator direction control member at a speed selected by said operator speed control member; a shaft coupling means disposed on said motor rotatable shaft adapted to couple to the encoder rotatable shaft when the rotary shaft encoder is in said predetermined location and orientation, whereby rotation of said motor rotatable shaft is coupled to the encoder rotatable shaft; a multiple wire connector adapted for connection to the plurality of connection wires of a rotary shaft encoder; a plurality of single pole, multiple throw load selection switches, each load selection switch disposed o said lower mounting panel enclosed within said interior space having an operator control knob extending through an opening in said lower mounting panel and connected to a corresponding wire of said multiple wire connector for connection of an operator selected one of a predetermined set of voltages and loads to said corresponding wire of said multiple wire connector; and a plurality of output terminal disposed on said lower mounting panel and accessible from the exterior of said enclosed space, each output terminal connected to a corresponding wire of said multiple connector, for permitting connection to said correspond wire of said multiple wire connector thereby permitting the signal on the corresponding connection wire of the rotary shaft encoder to be monitored. 11. The testing apparatus of claim 10, further comprising: a plurality of direct current power supplies, each direct current power supply disposed on said lower mounting panel and generating a corresponding predetermined direct current voltage; and each of said plurality of load selection switches is connected to each of said plurality of direct current power supplies for permitting operator selected connection of one of said predetermined direct current voltages to said corresponding connection wire of a rotary shaft encoder. 12. The testing apparatus of claim 11, wherein: each of said plurality of operator selectable load switches includes a plurality of load resistors, each load resistor having first and second terminals and a corresponding unique electrical resistance therebetween, each of said operator selectable load switches for selected connection of said corresponding connection wire Of the rotary shaft encoder to said first terminal of one of said plurality of load resistors; and further comprising a load line selector switch disposed on said lower mounting panel and connected to ground, to each of said plurality of direct current power supplies and to said second terminals of each of said load resistors for connecting a selected one of said predetermined direct current voltages or ground to said second terminals of all of said load resistors. 13. The testing apparatus of claim 12, wherein: each of said plurality of load selection switches permits the selection of no electrical connection to said corresponding connection wire of a rotary shaft encoder. 14. The testing apparatus of claim 12, wherein: each of said plurality of load selection switches permits the selection of ground connection to said corresponding connection wire of a rotary shaft encoder. 15. The testing apparatus of claim 12, wherein: each of said plurality of load selection switches includes connections disposed in order from a reference location for no electrical connection, followed by said load resistors in order from said load resistor having the least electrical resistance to said load resistor having the greatest electrical resistance, ground connection, followed by said direct current power supplies from said direct current power supply having the least predetermined direct current voltage to said direct current power supply having the greatest predetermined direct current voltage. 16. The testing apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: a voltage meter disposed on said lower mounting panel and having a pair of input terminals for generating an operator perceivable indication of the voltage across said pair of input terminals; and a voltage meter switch disposed on said lower mounting panel and connected to said plurality of direct current power supplies and said voltage meter for selectively coupling said predetermined direct current voltage of one of said plurality of direct current power supplies across said input terminals, whereby the voltage of said selected direct current power supply can be monitored. 17. The testing apparatus of claim 10, wherein: said multiple wire connector is selected from among a set of a plurality of multiple wire connectors, each multiple wire connector of said set adapted for connection to the connection wires of a unique type of rotary shaft encoder. 18. The testing apparatus of claim 10, wherein: said mounting means includes a height adjustment for said predetermined location whereby rotary shaft encoders of differing height can be accommodated. 19. The testing apparatus of claim 10, further comprising: at least one monitor selection switch disposed on said lower mounting panel nd connected to each of said load selection switches for selecting one of the corresponding connection wires of the rotary shaft encoder; an upper mounting panel disposed in said upper shell of said attache, said upper mounting panel forming an upper interior space with said upper shell; a monitoring apparatus disposed on said upper mounting panel connected to each of said at least one monitor selection switches for generating operator perceivable indications of the signal on the connection wire selected by each of said at least one monitor selection switches. 20. The testing apparatus of claim 19, wherein: said monitoring apparatus is an oscilloscope. 