An apparatus and method are provided for molding sterile parts. The apparatus has a first mold portion and a second mold portion. At least one of the first and second mold portions defines a mold cavity configured to receive a molten plastic and form therefrom at least one molded part At least one of the first and second mold portions is movable relative to the other between (i) a closed position for sealing the mold cavity or cavities and molding at least one part therein, and (ii) an open position defining a fluid passageway between the first and second mold portions and permitting the passage of a fluid sterilant therein. A fluid source that contains or otherwise generates a fluid sterilant, such as vaporized hydrogen peroxide, is connectable in fluid communication with the fluid passageway for introducing the sterilant into the fluid passageway with at least one of the first and second mold portions in the open position, and in turn contacting with the sterilant the surfaces of the first and second mold portions forming the fluid passageway and located adjacent to the at least one mold cavity, but not contacting an interior surface of a molded part within the mold cavity, to sterilize the exposed mold surfaces and thereby prevent contamination of the molded part.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of molding sterile parts, the method comprising: providing a first mold portion and a second mold portion, wherein at least one of the first and second mold portions defines a mold cavity configured to receive a molten plastic and form therefrom at least one molded part, and at least one of the first and second mold portions is movable relative to the other; introducing a molten plastic into the at least one mold cavity with the first and second mold portions in a closed position and forming at least one molded part therein; moving at least one of the first and second mold portions from the closed position to an open position defining a fluid passageway between the first and second mold portions and permitting the passage of fluid therein; introducing a fluid sterilant into the fluid passageway and into contact with at least one surface of the first and second mold portions located adjacent to the at least one mold cavity, but not in contact with an interior surface of a molded part formed within the mold cavity, and in turn sterilizing the at least one surface of the first and second mold portions and preventing contamination of the respective molded part; and de-molding from the at least one mold cavity the at least one molded part. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising directing an over pressure of sterile gas over at least a portion of the first and second mold portions and the at least one molded part during de-molding thereof. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising at least one of (i) drawing substantially all of the fluid sterilant out of the fluid passageway prior to de-molding the at least one part, and (ii) flushing substantially all of the fluid sterilant out of the fluid passageway prior to de-molding the at least one molded part. 4. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising covering at least a peripheral portion of the fluid passageway during introducing the fluid sterilant therein to substantially retain the fluid sterilant within the fluid passageway and in contact with the surfaces of the first and second mold portions defining the fluid passageway. 5. A method as defined in claim 4, further comprising retaining the fluid sterilant in the fluid passageway for a predetermined period of time sufficient to sterilize same, and then at least one of drawing the fluid sterilant and flushing the fluid sterilant from the fluid passageway prior to de-molding the at least one molded part. 6. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising providing an enclosure; directing at least one of an overpressure of sterile gas and a substantially laminar flow of sterile gas into the enclosure to thereby define a sterile space within the enclosure; and de-molding the at least one molded part within the sterile space. 7. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising performing a plurality of molding and de-molding cycles without any sterilization cycles therebetween, wherein each molding cycle includes molding at least one respective molded part, each de-molding cycle includes de-molding at least one respective molded part, and each sterilization cycle includes introducing the fluid sterilant into the fluid passageway between respective molding and de-molding cycles. 8. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein introducing a fluid sterilant into the fluid passageway comprises introducing vaporized hydrogen peroxide into the fluid passageway. 