A Raman spectroscopy sensor integrated with an unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) includes a UGV having a robot arm and a camera mounted on the robot arm. A laser and telescope associated with a Raman sensor are mounted on the robot arm in such a way as to point in substantially the same direction in which the camera is pointed. A Raman spectral data acquisition and control module is mounted on the UGV and is configured to receive Raman spectral data from the telescope. A remote base station having a display and a data processing and analysis module is configured to receive data from the data acquisition and control module and to display for an operator images from the camera and information related to the Raman sensor. An autofocus system is preferably employed to automatically control telescope focus and thereby enable the Raman sensor to operate over a wide range, e.g., 0.5 m to 10 m.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system including an unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) having a Raman sensor, the system comprising: an unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) having a robot arm; a camera mounted on the robot arm; a laser and associated telescope mounted on the robot arm in such a way as to point in substantially a same direction in which the camera is pointed, wherein the telescope comprises an autofocus system that includes a lens that is arranged to image a laser beam spot at a target on to a linear detector array and that is positioned to assess target distance based on parallax, wherein the lens and the linear detector array are arranged along a same axis that is off-axis from an axis along which laser light travels to the target and wherein light reflected from the target is passed directly to the lens without intervening reflection; a data acquisition and control module mounted on the UGV and configured to receive Raman spectral data from the telescope; and a remote base station having a display and a data processing and analysis module that is configured to receive data from the data acquisition and control module. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the UGV is remotely controlled. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the UGV operates autonomously. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a spectrograph that receives Raman scattered light from the telescope. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising an umbilical that connects the laser and associated telescope to the data acquisition and control module. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the base station receives imagery from the camera and displays the same on a display. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the display is a touch screen display. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the laser operates at a wavelength of about 262 nm. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the linear detector array is tilted at an angle consistent with the Scheimpflug angle. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a filter arranged in front of the linear detector array. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the autofocus system provides a depth of focus of +/-1 mm. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the telescope can be focused to have a stand-off range of about 0.5 m to about 10 m. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the laser and associated telescope and the data acquisition and control module are modularly configured such that the laser and associated telescope and the data acquisition and control module can be employed by a man-portable Raman sensor. 