An ornament includes a hollow ornament body having an inner coating layer in which a pattern is formed, to form an ornamental indicia for the ornament. The pattern in the inner coating layer may be a pattern of openings or a pattern of discolorations. The pattern in the inner coating layer may be formed by directing a laser beam through the hollow ornament body into the inner coating layer in a predetermined pattern. The laser beam may vaporize the inner coating layer or discolor the inner coating layer without harming the body of the ornament. The laser may be a Nd:YAG marking laser. Input patterns are provided to the laser after conversion from planar to spheroidal coordinates so that a pattern may be produced in the inner coating layer without distortion. When illuminated from within, the ornament produces a unique appearance because the ornamental indicia is illuminated due to the removal or discoloration of the inner coating layer.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A method of fabricating an ornament having a hollow body and an inner coating layer on the inner surface of said hollow ornament body, the method comprising the steps of: forming a predetermined pattern in said inner coating layer to form an ornamental indicia for said ornament. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said forming step comprises the step of removing said predetermined pattern from said inner coating layer. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said forming step comprises the step of directing a laser beam through said hollow body onto said inner coating layer in said predetermined pattern, to form said predetermined pattern in said inner coating layer. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said laser beam vaporizes said inner coating layer according to said predetermined pattern to form an opening in said inner coating layer having said predetermined pattern. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said laser beam discolors said inner coating layer according to said predetermined pattern to form a discoloration in said inner coating layer having said predetermined pattern. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein said hollow body is a nonplanar hollow body, and wherein said laser beam directing step comprises the steps of: defining a planar pattern corresponding to said ornamental indicia; converting said planar pattern to a nonplanar pattern; and directing said laser beam to form said nonplanar pattern in said inner coating layer. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said hollow body is a hollow spheroidal body; wherein said converting step comprises the step of converting said planar pattern to a corresponding spheroidal pattern; and wherein said directing step comprises the step of directing said laser beam to form said corresponding spheroidal pattern in said inner coating layer. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said forming step is followed by the step of placing an illumination source in said hollow body, for passing light through the formed pattern in said inner coating layer and illuminating said ornamental indicia. 9. The product produced by the method of claim 1. 10. The product produced by the method of claim 3. 11. A method of fabricating a Christmas ornament having a hollow body adapted for hanging from a Christmas tree or the like, and an inner coating layer on the inner surface of said hollow ornament body, the method comprising the step of: impinging a laser beam through said hollow ornament body and onto said inner coating layer in a predetermined pattern, to form an ornamental indicia for said Christmas ornament. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said laser beam vaporizes said inner coating layer according to said predetermined pattern to form an opening in said inner coating layer having said predetermined pattern. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein said laser beam discolors said inner coating layer according to said predetermined pattern to form a discoloration in said inner coating layer having said predetermined pattern. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein said hollow body is a nonplanar hollow body, and wherein said laser beam directing step comprises the steps of: defining a planar pattern corresponding to said ornamental indicia; converting said planar pattern to a nonplanar pattern; and directing said laser beam to form said nonplanar pattern in said inner coating layer. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said hollow body is a hollow spheroidal body; wherein said converting step comprises the step of converting said planar pattern to a corresponding spheroidal pattern; and wherein said directing step comprises the step of directing said laser beam to form said corresponding spheroidal pattern in said inner coating layer. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein said forming step is followed by the step of placing an illumination source in said hollow body, for passing light through the formed pattern in said inner coating layer and illuminate said ornamental indica. 