A method for adhesively bonding a first body to a second body, the first body comprising a metallic substrate, such as a piece of steel, or comprising a metallic substrate and a filler therein, such as ceramic fiber reinforced aluminum, the second body comprising any type of substrate, such as a piece of glass, plastic or metal. The first body is pretreated by placing it in the path of an energy beam, such as a laser beam, to form projections on the metallic substrate by evaportion and/or melting of the metallic substrate of the first body, substantially all of the projections being less than 20 micrometers in height, or to expose filler by evaporation of the metallic substrate of the first body. The second body can be untreated, pretreated as above or pretreated another way, such as by solvent washing or sandblasting. An adhesive is then coated on the pretreated area of the first body and the first body adhered to the second body. The cured adhesive interlocks with the projections and/or the exposed filler to produce a stronger bond. Similarly, an object, such as a rubber gasket, can be molded to a so-pretreated body so that the cured molding compound interlocks with the projections and/or the exposed filler to produce a stronger bond between the molded object and the so-pretreated body. The invention is also an article made by the method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for adhesively bonding a first body to a second body, the first body having a metallic substrate, the method comprising the steps of pretreating an area of the first body, contacting an adhesive agent with a member of the group consisting of the pretreated area of the first body or an area of the second body, and then joining the first body with the second body so that the adhesive agent is interposed between the pretreated area of the first body and the area of the second body, the improvement which comprises as the step of pretreating an area of the first body; placing the first body in the path of an energy beam having a selected energy density of from 0.001 to 1,000 joules/cm.sup.2 for a duration of from 0.1 to 100 nanoseconds effective to form projections on the metallic substrate of the first body, the projections formed by melting of the metallic substrate of the first body, substantially all of the projections being less than 20 micrometers in height. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said energy beam is generated by a laser. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the first body comprises an aluminum substrate. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the first body comprises a titanium substrate. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the first body comprises a copper substrate. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein the first body comprises a steel substrate. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the first body comprises a magnesium substrate. 8. A method for adhesively bonding a first body to a second body, the first body comprising a metallic substrate and a filler therein, the method comprising the steps of pretreating an area of the first body, contacting an adhesive agent with a member of the group consisting of the pretreated area of the first body or an area of the second body, and then joining the first body with the second body so that the adhesive agent is interposed between the pretreated area of the first body and the area of the second body, the improvement which comprises as the step of pretreating an area of the first body; placing the first body in the path of an energy beam having a selected energy density of from 0.001 to 1,000 joules/cm.sup.2 for a duration of from 0.1 to 100 nanoseconds effective to expose the filler of the first body by evaporation of the metallic substrate of the first body. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said energy beam is generated by a laser. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises an aluminum substrate. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises a titanium substrate. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises a copper substrate. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises a steel substrate. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises a magnesium substrate. 