A composite golf club shaft and the method of constructing the shaft is disclosed. The hollow circular shaft includes a standard butt end having a constant outside diameter along a length of the shaft and a tip end having a constant outside diameter sustantially larger than the tip of a standard shaft, with the constant diameter of the tip end and butt end extending along predetermined lengths of the shaft. An intermediate section of the shaft tapers between the diameters of the butt and tip ends. The shaft is manufactured by wrapping a group of circumferential sections about a mandrel, each layer comprising either standard modulus carbon-graphite fibers or fiberglass fibers in a matrix, with the finished product being heat-cured to produce a golf club shaft.
Claims We claim: 1. A hollow golf club shaft comprising at least two inner plies of angle carbon-graphite fibers oriented at opposing angles, one ply at substantially a +45.degree. angle and the opposing ply at substantially a -45.degree. angle, laminated in a matrix; at least one ply of fiberglass fibers in the zero orientation with respect to the longitudinal axis of the shaft laminated in a matrix; at least one ply of carbon-graphite fibers in the zero orientation with respect to the longitudinal axis of the shaft laminated in a matrix; the tip end of said shaft having a diameter between 0.400 inch and 0.440 inch and extending a predeterminated distance from the tip; and an intermediate tapering section of said shaft extending between said butt end and said tip end. 2. The golf club shaft of claim 1 wherein said tip end outside diameter is substantially 0.420 inch along said predetermined distance. 3. The hollow golf club shaft of claim 1 wherein said tip end has a substantially constant diameter over substantially 9/64ths the length of the shaft and said butt end has a substantially constant diameter over substantially two-ninths the length of the shaft, and said intermediate tapering section extends the remaining length of said shaft. 4. The golf club shaft of claim 1 wherein said shaft is substantially 41.5 inches, said tip end of said shaft has a substantially constant diameter over 6 inches of said shaft, and said butt end of said shaft has a constant diameter over 7.5 inches of said shaft, with said intermediate section extending between the inner termination of said substantially constant diameters. 5. The golf club shaft of claim 2 wherein the length of said shaft is 41.5" and has a tip end deflection between 4.55 inches and 5.15 inches when the butt end is secured in a fixed position and a 6.5-pound weight is hung on the shaft 35 inches from the butt end. 6. The golf club shaft of claim 2 wherein said shaft has a torque rating of between 2.5.degree. and 4.1.degree. using a 1.0-pound weight and a 12-inch moment arm while the shaft is clamped 3 inches from the tip and 6 inches from the butt end. 7. The golf club shaft of claim 1 wherein said carbon-graphite fibers are a standard modulus type, said fiberglass fibers are high strength type and the matrix consists of an amine-cured DGEBPA type epoxy. 8. The golf club shaft of claim 1 wherein said fiberglass fibers are of the E-type. 9. The golf club shaft of claim 1 wherein the ratio by volume of said carbon-graphite fibers and said fiberglass fibers is selected so as to provide a desired shaft flexibility while maintaining torsional stiffness. 10. The golf club shaft of claim 1 wherein said matrix is a thermosetting polymer. 11. The golf club shaft of claim 1 wherein the matrix is an epoxy resin. 12. The golf club of claim 1 wherein the matrix is a thermoplastic polymer. 13. A method of forming a hollow composite golf club shaft comprising providing a mandrel of circular cross-section having a first section with a substantially constant diameter extending a predetermined distance at one end, a second section having a substantially constant diameter smaller than said first diameter extending a predetermined distance at the other end, and an intermediate tapered section extending between said first and second sections; forming a two-ply section of carbon-graphite fibers in a matrix material having a predetermined length L, with the individual plies having opposed fiber direction angles relative to the axis of said mandrel, one of said plies at substantially a +45.degree. angle and the opposing ply at substantially a -45.degree. angle; wrapping said two-ply section twice around said mandrel; forming a third section comprising butt ad tip carbon-graphite fibers in a matrix material having in-line fiber orientation direction; wrapping said butt and tip sections around said two-ply section, with the fibers in said butt and tip sections extending at a 0.degree. angle with the axis of said mandrel; forming a fourth section having carbon-graphite fibers in a matrix material having length L, said fourth section having in-line fiber direction; wrapping said fourth section about said two-ply section and said butt and tip sections, with the fibers of said fourth section extending at a 0.degree. angle with the axis of said mandrel; forming a fifth two-ply section having fiberglass fibers in a matrix material having length L and having in-line fiber direction; and wrapping said fifth section around said fourth section, with the fibers in said fifth section extending at a 0.degree. angle with the axis of said mandrel. 14. A composite golf club shaft having a butt end and a tip end comprising an inner circumferential section of the thickness of said shaft comprising two plies; each of said plies having two turns around said shaft; each of said plies comprising a plurality of parallel reinforcing carbon-graphite fibers in matrix material oriented in longitudinal aspect at a pitch angle of inclination to the longitudinal axis of said shaft; the fibers in alternate plies having pitch angles of opposite inclination, one of said plies at substantially a +45.degree. angle and the opposing ply at substantially a -45.degree. angle; a second section of the thickness of said shaft comprising a circumferential butt end stiffener and a circumferential tip end stiffener, each of said stiffeners comprising a plurality of parallel reinforcing carbon-graphite fibers in matrix material oriented in longitudinal aspect at a pitch angle of inclination to the longitudinal axis of said shaft at substantially 0.degree.; third and fourth circumferential sections of the thickness of said shaft, each comprising plies having a plurality of parallel reinforcing fibers in matrix material oriented in longitudinal aspect at a pitch angle of inclination to the longitudinal axis of said shaft at substantially 0.degree.; and the tip end having an outside diameter between 0.400 inch and 0.440 inch extending a predetermined distance from the tip. 15. The golf club shaft of claim 14 wherein the fibers in said third circumferential section are standard modulus carbon-graphite and the fibers in said fourth circumferential section are fiberglass. 16. The golf club shaft of claim 14 wherein the fibers in said third circumferential section are fiberglass fibers and the fibers in said fourth circumferential section are standard modulus carbon-graphite fibers. 17. The golf club shaft of claim 14 wherein said butt end diameter is constant for a predetermined distance along said shaft and said intermediate section joining the tip and butt ends is tapered. 18. The golf club shaft of claim 14 wherein said predetermined distance of said tip end has a diameter of substantially 0.420 inch. 19. The golf club shaft of claim 14 wherein the tip end diameter is 0.420 inch and is constant for a length of six inches. 