A buffing fixture and structure for supporting large and thin metal skins during a finishing operation. The structure includes a plurality of individual form fixtures, at least one trunnion table mounted for rotation along a horizontally disposed axis, and a motor for causing the rotation of the trunnion table. Each of the form fixtures is comprised of a frame having at least one brace which extends outwardly from the frame, a form shell mounted to the frame such that the interior surface is in contact with a longitudinal edge of the brace, and a layer of foam disposed substantially along the entire interior surface of the form shell in order to support the surface area of the form shell. The form shell has a three dimensional shape which follows the three dimensional shape of the metal skin to be finished. A set of straps are also provided in order to removably secure and register the position of the metal skin to the form shell, such that the metal skin lies flush against the exterior surface of the form shell.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A buffing fixture for removably supporting substantially an entire side of a large and thin metal skin having a contoured three dimensional shape, comprising: a frame having at least one brace extending outwardly from said frame; form shell means mounted to said frame such that an interior surface of said form shell is in contact with said brace, said form shell having a shape which follows the contoured three dimensional shape of said skin; strap means for removably securing and registering the position of said metal skin along an exterior surface of said form shell; and foam means disposed along substantially the entire interior surface of said form shell for supporting said form shell. 2. The buffing fixture of claim 1 wherein said form shell has a plurality of index holes and said metal skin has at least two tabs and wherein said strap means includes a first buckle cooperable with said index holes and one of said tabs to secure said metal skin to said form shell. 3. The buffing fixture of claim 2 wherein said first buckle includes a first strap and wherein said strap means further includes a second buckle having a second strap and wherein said second buckle cooperates with the other of said tabs of said metal skin and wherein said first and second straps are snugged to said buffing fixture to secure said metal skin to said form shell. 4. The buffing fixture of claim 1 further including means for removably attaching said fixture to a structure, said structure including means for selectively finishing said removably supported metal skin when said buffing fixture is attached to said structure. 5. A method for forming a buffing fixture for removably supporting an entire side of a large and thin metal skin having a contoured three dimensional shape, comprising: determining coordinates corresponding to said contoured three dimensional shape; forming a shell having a three dimensional contour corresponding to said coordinates; determining at least one set of slice coordinates comprising a lineal set of said contour coordinates; forming at least one support rib having a lineal edge with a three dimensional contour corresponding to said slice coordinates; forming a frame; and securing said rib to said frame to form an undersupport structure, mounting said shell over said undersupport structure and applying a stiffening foam coating along the underside of said shell to stiffen said shell against deformation. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said metal skin includes at least one tab, the method further including: forming index holes along the surface of said shell; engaging a pin of a first buckle with said tab of said metal skin to fix the position of said metal skin on said shell. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said metal skin includes at least two tabs and said pin of said first buckle is engaged in one of said tabs, the method further including: engaging a pin of a second buckle with the other of said tabs; attaching a first strap to said first buckle and attaching a second strap to said second buckle; and snugging said first and second straps against said buffing fixture to secure said metal skin in position on said buffing fixture. 