The illustrative embodiments provide a method and apparatus for controlling movement of a vehicle. User input selecting a path for the vehicle is received from an operator. The vehicle responds to the user input by moving along the selected path in a manner that maintains the operator on a side of the vehicle. The illustrative embodiments further provide a method and apparatus for improved machine control. The vehicle receives a power-up command, instructions to execute a planned path, and information identifying a leader. The leader is an operator. The vehicle then executes the planned path using the information identifying the leader in order to follow a path of the leader. The vehicle moves along the path in a manner that maintains the leader in a position proximate to a side of the vehicle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling movement of a vehicle, the method comprising: receiving user input from an operator, wherein the user input selects a path for the vehicle to form a selected path; and responsive to receiving the user input, moving the vehicle along the selected path in a manner that maintains the operator on a side of the vehicle, wherein the selected path includes a set of waypoints, and wherein the moving step further comprises: moving the vehicle along the selected path in a single dimension such that the vehicle follows the operator that is moving in a forward direction with respect to the vehicle, but the vehicle does not follow the operator that is moving in a sideways or backwards motion with respect to the vehicle; responsive to reaching a waypoint in the set of waypoints, stopping the vehicle; and resuming movement of the vehicle along the path in response to an event. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the event is movement of the operator past a defined point of the vehicle. 3. A method for controlling movement of a vehicle, the method comprising: receiving user input from an operator, wherein the user input selects a path for the vehicle to form a selected path; responsive to receiving the user input, moving the vehicle along the selected path in a manner that maintains the operator on a side of the vehicle; and entering the path on a map prior to receiving the user input. 4. A method for controlling movement of a vehicle, the method comprising: receiving user input from an operator, wherein the user input selects a path for the vehicle to form a selected path; and responsive to receiving the user input, moving the vehicle along the selected path in a manner that maintains the operator on a side of the vehicle, wherein the moving step further comprises: moving the vehicle along the selected path in a single dimension such that the vehicle follows the operator that is moving in a forward direction with respect to the vehicle, but the vehicle does not follow the operator that is moving in a sideways or backwards motion with respect to the vehicle; and responsive to detecting an obstacle in the selected path, stopping the vehicle. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the moving step further comprises: responsive to receiving a user input from the operator to move the vehicle around the obstacle, starting the vehicle; and moving the vehicle around the obstacle based on the user input from the operator. 6. A method comprising: receiving user input from an operator, wherein the user input selects a path for a vehicle to form a selected path; and responsive to receiving the user input, moving the vehicle along the selected path in a manner that maintains the operator on a side of the vehicle, wherein the moving further comprises: responsive to detecting an obstacle in the selected path, executing a maneuver to avoid the obstacle. 7. A method comprising: a vehicle receiving a power-up command to power-up the vehicle; the vehicle receiving instructions to execute a planned path; the vehicle receiving information identifying a leader, wherein the leader is an operator of the vehicle; the vehicle executing the planned path using the information identifying the leader in order to follow a path of the leader; the vehicle moving along the path in a manner that maintains the leader in a position proximate to a side of the vehicle; receiving information describing obstacles in a path of the vehicle; retrieving obstacle avoidance instructions from a behavior database that comprises instructions for different modes of operation that may be performed by the vehicle; executing the obstacle avoidance instructions; and resuming moving along the path in the manner that maintains the leader in the position proximate to the side of the vehicle. 8. A method comprising: a vehicle receiving a power-up command to power-up the vehicle; the vehicle receiving instructions to execute a planned path; the vehicle receiving information identifying a leader, wherein the leader is an operator of the vehicle; the vehicle executing the planned path using the information identifying the leader in order to follow a path of the leader; the vehicle moving along the path in a manner that maintains the leader in a position proximate to a side of the vehicle; requesting positioning information from a high integrity perception system; receiving the positioning information from the high integrity perception system; and processing the positioning information in association with the planned path. 9. A vehicle comprising: a steering system; a propulsion system; a braking system; and a machine controller connected to the steering system, the propulsion system, and the braking system; wherein the machine controller receives user input from an operator with instructions for a planned path and sends commands to the steering system, the propulsion system, and the braking system to move the vehicle along the planned path in a manner that maintains the operator in a position proximate to a side of the vehicle, wherein the machine controller identifies a boundary to the planned path to form an identified boundary and maintains a fixed distance between the vehicle and the identified boundary, wherein the planned path is a ground surface appropriate for movement of the vehicle, and wherein the boundary is at least one of a curb and vegetation. 10. A vehicle comprising: a steering system; a propulsion system; a braking system; and a machine controller connected to the steering system, the propulsion system, and the braking system; wherein the machine controller receives user input from an operator with instructions for a planned path and sends commands to the steering system, the propulsion system, and the braking system to move the vehicle along the planned path in a manner that maintains the operator in a position proximate to a side of the vehicle, wherein the machine controller executes a maneuver to avoid an obstacle responsive to detecting the obstacle in the planned path. 11. The vehicle of claim 10, wherein the obstacle is at least one of a person, a vehicle, and debris in the path. 12. A vehicle comprising: a steering system; a propulsion system; a braking system; and a machine controller connected to the steering system, the propulsion system, and the braking system; wherein the machine controller receives user input from an operator with instructions for a planned path and sends commands to the steering system, the propulsion system, and the braking system to move the vehicle along the planned path in a manner that maintains the operator in a position proximate to a side of the vehicle, wherein the machine controller distinguishes the operator from other objects. 13. A method for controlling movement of a vehicle, the method comprising: receiving information for processing a selected path for the vehicle; and moving the vehicle along the selected path in a manner that maintains the operator on a side of the vehicle, wherein the operator is a human, and wherein the moving further comprises: moving the vehicle along the selected path in a single dimension such that the vehicle follows the operator that is moving in a forward direction with respect to the vehicle, but the vehicle does not follow the operator that is moving in a sideways or backwards motion with respect to the vehicle. 