An arc welding head suitable for robotic welding has a fiber optic bundle and remotely located laser light source which is imaged onto an end of the fiber optic bundle and optically linked to substantially a single fiber of the fiber optic bundle. The light source is then repetitively scanned across the coherent arrangement of fibers within the bundle, such that, a substantial portion of the transmitted light will be sequentially delivered to each individual fiber within a row of fibers and subsequently delivered to a workpiece. This arrangement provides a high signal to noise ratio making the laser light reflected from the workpiece easily distinguishable from the optical "noise" generated by the welding arc flash.
Claims I claim: 1. An apparatus movable in a first direction along a plane "P" optically detecting anomalies on the surface of a workpiece, comprising: first and second fiber optic bundles, each having first and second ends; a projected source of light; first means for receiving said projected light and altering the path of said light across said first end of said first fiber optic bundle; second means for imaging said light onto substantially a single fiber of said first fiber optic bundle; third means for receiving said light from said second end of said first fiber optic bundle, imaging said light relative to said workpiece surface, and establishing a spot of light; fourth means for receiving reflected light from said spot of light and imaging said light onto substantially a single fiber of said second fiber optic bundle; fifth means for receiving said light from said first end of said second fiber optic bundle and imaging said light; and, sixth means for receiving said light from said fifth means and delivering an electrical signal in response to the position of said imaged light. 2. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, including a seventh means for receiving light from said fifth means, scanning said light in synchronization with said first means, and delivering said light to said sixth means. 3. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said third and fourth means are both located substantially in said plane "P" and displaced one from the other. 4. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said first means includes: a first galvanometer positioned intermediate said projected source of light and said first end of said first fiber optic bundle, said first galvanometer having a shaft angularly positionable relative to said first end of said first fiber optic bundle; and, a first mirror fixedly attached to said galvanometer shaft, said first mirror being rotatable in unison with said shaft and adapted to reflect said projected light in a plane intersecting said first end of said first fiber optic bundle. 5. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 2, wherein said seventh means includes: a second galvanometer positioned intermediate said fifth and sixth means and having a shaft angularly positionable relative to said first end of said second fiber optic bundle in synchronization with said first galvanometer shaft; and, a second mirror fixedly attached to said galvanometer shaft, said second mirror being rotatable in unison with said shaft and adapted to reflect said light in a plane intersecting said sixth means. 6. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said third means includes: a spherical lens positioned adjacent said second end of said first fiber optic bundle; and, a wedge prism having first and second surfaces defined by first and second intersecting planes, said prism being positioned adjacent said spherical lens with the intersection of said planes forming a line substantially parallel to said workpiece surface and substantially perpendicular to said plane "P". 7. The apparatus, as set forth in claim 5, wherein said sixth means includes a linear diode array positioned adjacent said second galvanometer along said reflected light plane. 