A gripper head for attachment to the Z axis shaft of a robot or a pick and place machine to pick up objects and position them on a workpiece, comprises a body from which projects a pair of gripping jaws which are slidable horizontally relative to the body by first and second pneumatic piston and cylinder units, respectively. A hold down and tamper member is vertically movable between the jaws by a third piston and cylinder unit so as to hold down an object to be picked up while the jaws are being closed about it and to tamp the object down against the workpiece. A brake is provided for stopping the piston of one of the first and second piston and cylinder units in a desired position. The hold down and tamper member may be arranged also to act as a vacuum pick up device.
Claims We claim: 1. A gripper head for use in picking up objects and placing them in predetermined positions, comprising: a body having a central axis and means for attaching the body to a longitudinally moveable shaft, with said central axis coincident with the axis of the shaft; first and second piston and cylinder units, arranged in the body in opposed relationship, one on each side of said central axis; first and second jaws, one disposed on each of two opposite sides of said central axis, each jaw being connected to, and slidably drivable by, the piston of a respective one of said units, along a path of travel in a direction towards and away from said central axis, each jaw projecting from the body in a direction away from said attachment means; a hold-down and tamper member; means in the body for driving said member between said jaws and in a direction towards and away from said attachment means; and means for retaining at least one of the jaws in a predetermined position along said path of travel, said retaining means being in the form of a brake, means being provided for applying the brake to the piston of one of said units. 2. A gripper head according to claim 1, in which said brake comprises a pair of brake shoes between which a piston rod of said first unit extends, and a third piston and cylinder unit in the body, actuatable to close the brake shoes about said piston rod. 3. A gripper head according to claim 2, in which each brake shoe carries a pin projecting into a slot formed in a brake slide connected to the piston of the third piston and cylinder unit, the slots diverging from one another in a direction away from such piston. 4. A gripper head for use in picking up objects and placing them in predetermined positions, comprising: a body having a central axis and means for attaching the body to a longitudinally moveable shaft, with said central axis coincident with the axis of the shaft; first and second piston and cylinder units, arranged in the body in opposed relationship, one on each side of said central axis; first and second jaws, one disposed on each of two opposite sides of said central axis, each jaw being connected to, and slidably drivable by, the piston of a respective one of said units, along a path of travel in a direction towards and away from said central axis, each jaw projecting from the body in a direction away from said attachment means; a hold-down and tamper member; means in the body for driving said member between said jaws and in a direction towards and away from said attachment means; and means for retaining at least one of the jaws in a predetermined position along said path of travel, and in which the means for driving said hold down and tamper member comprises a further piston and cylinder unit disposed between said first and second units, and having a piston rod which is coaxial with said central axis and which carries said hold down and tamper member at one end, the piston rod having a through axial bore communicating with an evacuable chamber, and with a manifold in said member, passages in said manifold communicating with a face of a hold-down and tamper member which is directed away from said body. 5. A gripper head as claimed in claim 1, comprising means for predetermining the length of travel of each jaw both towards and away from said central axis. 6. A gripper head according to claim 5, in which each jaw is carried by a first slide connected to a piston rod of a respective one of said first and second units, the slide having a slot extending in the direction of travel of the jaw and receiving a stop secured to a second slide which is securable in a predetermined position lengthwise of said direction of travel, the first slide being provided with a stop projecting towards the body and being adjustable to predetermine the extent of a space between the stop and the body. 7. A gripper head according to claim 1, in which each jaw is mounted on a slide which is connected to the piston of a respective one of said first and second units, the jaw being detachably secured to the slide. 8. A gripper head according to claim 1, in which each jaw is provided with a recess receiving an insert having an object engaging face and being detachably secured to the jaw. 9. A grippr head as claimed in claim 8, in which the insert of one jaw is provided with a pair of alignment pins projecting from the object engaging face of the insert, towards said central axis. 10. A gripper head as claimed in claim 1, in which the hold-down and tamper member is detachably connected to said driving means. 11. A gripper head as claimed in claim 1, in which said attachment means comprises a resilient portion defining a bore for receiving said shaft, and means for partially closing said bore so that the shaft is gripped by the attachment means. 12. A gripper head as claimed in claim 1, in which said hold-down and tamper member is mounted on a driven shaft and has thereon an anti-rotation rod extending parallel to such shaft and being slidable in a bore in the body, means being provided for sensing the axial position of the anti-rotation rod when the hold-down and tamper member is in a predetermined position remote from said body. 13. A gripper head as claimed in claim 1, in which said longitudinally movable shaft is connected to a piston of a further piston and cylinder unit mounted on a bracket in which the gripper head is slidable along said central axis, towards and away from said further piston and cylinder unit, the bracket having means for its attachment to an arm of a pick and place machine. 14. A gripper head as claimed in claim 1, in which the body defines the cylinders of said first and second piston and cylinder units and cylinders of third and fourth piston and cylinder units, the cylinder of the third piston and cylinder unit extending between the cylinders of said first and second units and containing a piston connected to a piston rod for driving said hold-down and tamper member, the cylinder of the fourth piston and cylinder unit extending parallel to that of the fist and second piston and cylinder units and having a piston to actuate a brake means for braking the piston of the first piston and cylinder unit. 15. A gripper head for use in picking up an electrical connector having pins depending therefrom and moving the connector towards a printed circuit board to insert the pins in predetermined holes therein, the gripper head comprising: a body having a central vertical axis and having at its upper end, an adaptor extending about said axis for attaching the body to a vertically moveable shaft; first and second piston and cylinder units arranged in the body in opposed relationship, one on each side of said central axis; first and second jaws mounted on the body for horizontal sliding movement, towards and away from said axis; means connecting each jaw to a piston rod of a respective one of said first and second units; a third piston and cylinder unit disposed in the body and having a piston rod extending vertically, such piston rod having an axial through bore; an evacuable chamber defined by the body at a position above the cylinder of the third piston and cylinder unit and receiving the upper end of the piston rod thereof; a connector hold-down and tamper block mounted on the lower end of the piston rod of said third unit and having a downwardly directed connector engaging face formed with perforations communicating with said axial bore; a fourth piston and cylinder unit to actuate a brake means for braking the piston rod of the first piston and cylinder unit; and means for supplying fluid under pressure to the cylinders of said piston and cylinder units. 16. A gripper head as claimed in claim 15, in which the means for applying pressure fluid to the cylinders of said first and second units are common to both of these units. 17. A gripper head as claimed in claim 15, in which the means for applying pressure fluid to the cylinders of said first and second units are separate means. 