A tactile sensor for sensing an object in contact therewith. In its preferred form, the sensor comprises a plurality of layers disposed in a sandwich arrangement. A top layer is comprised of a flexible, electrically-insulating material and a plurality of parallel flexible conductive rods. A bottom layer is comprised of an electrically-insulating material and a plurality of parallel conductive rods that extend at right angles to the conductive rods of the top layer, thus forming a sensory array comprising a plurality of superimposed intersection points arranged in a grid pattern. An intermediate layer is comprised of a resilient, electrically-insulating material in which is disposed a plurality of parallel conductive posts that extend perpendicular to the plane of the three layers. These posts are comprised of a resilient conducting material. Each conductive post is disposed at one of the sensor's aforementioned intersection points so as to electrically couple one of the conductive rods of the top layer to one of the conductive rods of the bottom layer. The conductive rods are formed with a selected cross-section, in order that changes in the amount of pressure exerted on the sensor will produce corresponding logarithmic exchanges in the contact surface area, and hence electrical contact resistance, established between the conductive rods and those conductive posts disposed beneath the points of pressure.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A tactile sensor for sensing the pressure impressed by an object in contact therewith, said sensor comprising a sandwich having: (a) a top layer comprised of a first flexible, electrically-insultating material and a plurality of first flexible, electrically-conductive rods disposed in parallel grooves in said first electrically-insulating material; (b) a bottom layer secured to said top layer, said bottom layer being comprised of a second electrically-insulating material and a plurality of second electrically-conductive rods extending parallel to one another, said bottom layer being disposed relative to said top layer so that said first rods extend across and substantially parallel to said second rods; and (c) an intermediate layer engaged by said top and bottom layers, said intermediate layer being comprised of a selected material that is both resilient and electrically-insulating and a plurality of mutually-spaced electrically-conductive posts disposed in and extending transversely through said selected material so that the opposite ends of said posts confront said top and bottom layers, said electrically-conductive posts being made of a resilient material and being disposed so that the axis of each post intersects one each of said first and second rods, whereby a matrix of electrically conducting paths is provided by said first and second rods and said posts. 2. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 wherein said first and second conductive rods have a cross-sectional profile conforming substantially to the cross-sectional profile shown in FIG. 3. 3. A tactile sensor according to claim 2 wherein said second conductive rods are formed of a flexible material. 4. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 wherein the said conductive rods of at least one of said top and bottom layers are made of a resilient material and have a hardness greater than the hardness of said intermediate layer. 5. A tactile sensor according to claim 4 wherein said first and second electrically-insulating materials and said selected electrically-insulating material all comprise a polymer, and said conductive posts are comprised of a polymer compounded with a conducting material. 6. A tactile sensor according to claim 3 wherein said conductive rods comprise an elastomer. 7. A tactile sensor according to claim 6 having 16 conductive rods in said top layer and 16 conductive rods in said bottom layer. 8. A tactile sensor for sensing an object in contact therewith, said sensor comprising: (a) a top layer made of a first flexible, electrically-insulating material and including a plurality of first conductive rods extending parallel to one another in a first plane, said first conductive rods being flexible along their length and having a cross-sectional profile conforming substantially to the profile illustrated in FIG. 3; (b) a bottom layer made of a second electrically-insulating material and including a plurality of second conductive rods extending parallel to one another in a second plane extending substantially parallel to said first plane, said second conductive rods having a cross-sectional profile conforming substantially to the profile shown in FIG. 3, said bottom layer also being disposed relative to said top layer so that said second conductive rods extend at an angle to said first conductive rods, thus forming a sensory array comprising a plurality of superimposed intersection points arranged in a grid pattern; and (c) an intermediate layer extending in a third parallel plane and disposed between and engaged by said first and second layers, said intermediate layer being made of a resilient material which is electrically-conductive. 9. A tactile sensor according to claim 8 wherein said first and second conductive rods are formed of the same material. 10. A tactile sensor according to claim 9 wherein said first conductive rods and said second conductive rods have a hardness greater than the hardness of said intermediate layer. 11. A tactile sensor according to claim 10 wherein each of said first and second layers of electrically insulating material comprise a polymer, and said intermediate layer comprises a polymer compounded with a conducting material. 12. A tactile sensor according to claim 11 having 16 conductive rods in said top layer and 16 conductive rods in said bottom layer. 13. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 wherein said first electrically-insulating material has an outer edge which is sealed to said second electrically-insulating material so as to form a sealed environment for said intermediate layer. 14. A tactle sensor according to claim 1 whrein said first and second rods, said first electrically-insulating material, said selected material and said posts are all made of a resilient material, and further wherein said first and second rods have a compression stiffness greater than that of said selected material and said posts. 15. A tactile asensor according to claim 14 wherein said second electrically-insulating material is substantially rigid. 16. A tactile sensor according to claim 14 wherein said second electrically-insulating material is resilient. 17. A tactile sensor according to claim 13 wherein at least one of said top and bottom layers is arranged so that at least said first rods or said second rods are disengaged from said posts when said tactile sensor is not subjected to compression by the pressure of an object in contact therwith, whereby no electrical signal can pass from said first rods to said second rods via said posts until a predetermined non-zero pressure is applied to said sensor by an object in contact therewith. 18. A tactile sensor according to claim 17 wherein at least said first rods each have a cross-sectional shape that varies with increasing distance from said posts so that the contact areas between said first rods and said posts will increase as said first rods and said posts are pressed together. 19. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 wherein said first and second electrically-conductive rods are always engaged with said intermediate layer. 20. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 wherein said first and second conductive rods each have a cross-sectional configuration that conforms substantially to the cross-sectional configuration illustrated in FIG. 3. 21. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 wherein said bottom layer comprises a plurality of electrically-conductive busses, and each of said second rods is engaged with one of said busses. 22. A tactile sensor according to claim 21 wherein said busses extend parallel to and are aligned with said second rods. 23. A tactile sensor according to claim 22 wherein said second electrically-insulating material is rigid. 24. A tactile sensor according to claim 23 wherein said busses are bonded to said second electrically-insulating material. 25. A tactile sensor to claim 8 wherein said first and second rods engage opposite sides of said intermediate layer and said first and second layers are bonded to one another. 26. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 wherein the opposite ends of each of said posts engage selected ones of said first and second rods, and further wherein said opposite ends of said posts have cross-sectional shapes that vary so that the contact areas between the opposite ends of said posts and said first and second rods will increase as said first and second layers are pressed against said intermediate layer. 27. A tactile sensor according to claim 26 wherein the opposite ends of said posts have a cross-sectional configuration conforming substantially to the cross-sectional configuration illustrated in FIG. 3 of the attached drawings. 28. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 wherein said first rods extend beyond the outer edge of said intermediate layer and are bent so as to lie against said bottom layer. 29. A tactile sensor for sensing the pressure impressed by an object in contact therewith, said sensor comprising: (a) a top layer comprised of a first flexible, electrically-insulating material and a first plurality of flexible electrically-conductive rods extending parallel to one another in grooves in said first electrically-insulating material; and (b) a bottom layer comprised of a second electrically-insulating material and a second plurality of electrically-conducting rods extending parallel to one another; said bottom layer being disposed relative to said top layer so that the rods of said first plurality of rods extend across and directly engage the rods of said second plurality of rods, whereby a plurality of electrically-conducting paths is provided by said first and second pluralities of rods; the said rods of at least one of said top and bottom layers (a) each being elastomeric and (b) each having a cross-sectional shape that varies with increasing distance from the other of said top and bottom layers so that the contact areas between the rods of said first and second pluralities of rods will increase non-linearly as portions of said layers are deformed as a consequence of being pressed against one another. 30. A tactile sensor according to claim 29 wherein all of said rods and at least one of said first and second electrically-insulating materials is elastomeric. 31. A tactile sensor according to claim 30 wherein said second electrically-insulating material is rigid. 