A method and apparatus for kinematic parameter identification of an industrial manipulator having either revolute or prismatic joints. The identification of individual kinematic parameters is called the arm signature of a robot. Through the identification and detailed measurement of mechanical features in a robot, kinematic features, i.e. the planes of rotation and centers of rotation for revolute joints and lines of translation for prismatic joints are identified. These three features contain the essential information to formulate a complete robot kinematic model.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of identifying kinematic parameters of an n-degree of freedom manipulator having n-links and n-joints labeled link i and joint i for i-1 . . . n, whereby the n.sup.th link is the link of the manipulator distal from the manipulator's base, and wherein controlled movement of said joints defines a manipulator work envelope; said method comprising the steps of: (A) defining a reference cartesian coordinate frame of a predefined working volume; (B) positioning said manipulator base in a fixed location relative to said reference coordinate frame wherein said manipulator work envelope is within said reference coordinate frame predefined working volume; (C) completing for each joint of the robot beginning with the n.sup.th joint (i.e., i=n, until i=1) the following operations: (a) defining a target relative to the i.sup.th link whereby incremental movement of the i.sup.th joint causes the synchronous movement of said target within said reference cartesian coordinate frame working volume; (b) measuring a cartesian position of said target for each of a plurality of incremental movements of said i.sup.th joint whereby the resultant locus of measured cartesian positions defines a circle centered about the axis of rotation on a plane perpendicular to the axis of rotation, for a revolute joint; and a line parallel to the axis of translation for a prismatic joint; (c) defining said plane on which said circle lies from said measured cartesian positions and the direction of a vector normal to said plane, said vector being parallel to the joint axis of rotation, for a revolute joint; (d) defining the center of said circle which lies on said axis of rotation from said measured cartesian positions, for a revolute joint; (e) detecting the line parallel to the line of translation, from said measured positions, for a prismatic joint; (f) establishing the cartesian position and orientation of a cartesian coordinate frame fixed relative to the i-1.sup.th link of the manipulator measured with respect to said reference coordinate frame based upon said center of said circle and vector normal for a revolute i.sup.th joint, or line of translation for prismatic i.sup.th joint. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the reference cartesian coordinate frame of a predefined working volume is defined by a range sensor means having at least three sensor means disposed thereon for proving cartesian position information of the robot target. 3. A method of identifying kinematic parameters of an n-degree of freedom manipulator having n-links and n-joints labeled link i and joint i for i=1 . . . n, whereby the n.sup.th link is the link of the manipulator distal from the manipulator's base, and wherein controlled movement of said joints defines a manipulator work envelope; said method comprising the steps of: (A) defining a reference cartesian coordinate frame of a predefined working volume; (B) positioning said manipulator base in a fixed location relative to said reference coordinate frame wherein said manipulator work envelope is within said reference coordinate frame predefined working volume; (C) completing for each joint of the robot beginning with the n.sup.th joint (i.e., i=n, until i=1) the following operations: (a) defining a target relative to the i.sup.th link whereby incremental movement of the i.sup.th joint causes the synchronous movement of said target within said reference cartesian coordinate frame working volume; (b) measuring a cartesian position of said target for each of a plurality of incremental movements of said i.sup.th joint whereby the resultant locus of measured cartesian positions defines a circle centered about the axis of rotation on a plane perpendicular to the axis of rotation, for a revolute joint; (c) defining said plane on which said circle lies from said measured cartesian positions and the direction of a vector normal to said plane, said vector being parallel to the joint axis of rotation, for a revolute joint; (d) defining the center of said circle which lies on said axis of rotation from said measured cartesian positions, for a revolute joint; and (e) establishing the cartesian position and orientation of a cartesian coordinate frame fixed relative to the i-1.sup.th link of the manipulator measured with respect to said reference coordinate frame based upon said center of said circle and vector normal for a revolute i.sup.th joint. 4. The method according to claim 3 wherein the reference cartesian coordinate frame of a predefined working volume is defined by a range sensor means having at least three sensor means disposed thereon for proving cartesian position information of the robot target. 5. A method of identifying kinematic parameters of an n-degree of freedom manipulator having n-links and n-joints labeled link i and joint i for i=1 . . . n, whereby the n.sup.th link is the link of the manipulator distal from the manipulator's base, and wherein controlled movement of said joints defines a manipulator work envelope; said method comprising the steps of: (A) defining a reference cartesian coordinate frame of a predefined working volume; (B) positioning said manipulator base in a fixed location relative to said reference coordinate frame wherein said manipulator work envelope is within said reference coordinate frame predefined working volume; (C) completing for each joint of the robot beginning with the n.sup.th joint (i.e., i=n, until i=1) the following operations: (a) defining a target relative to the i.sup.th link whereby incremental movement of the i.sup.th joint causes the synchronous movement of said target within said reference cartesian coordinate frame working volume; (b) measuring a cartesian position of said target for each of a plurality of incremental movements of said i.sup.th joint whereby the resultant locus of measured cartesian positions defines a line parallel to the axis of translation for a prismatic joint; (c) detecting the line parallel to the line of translation, from said measured positions, for a prismatic joint; (d) establishing the cartesian position and orientation of a cartesian coordinate frame fixed relative to the i-1.sup.th link of the manipulator measured with respect to said reference coordinate frame based upon said center of said circle and vector normal for a revolute i.sup.th joint, or line of translation for prismatic i.sup.th joint. 6. The method according to claim 5 wherein the reference cartesian coordinate frame to a predefined working volume is defined by a range sensor means having at least three sensor means disposed thereon for proving cartesian position information of the robot target. 