A carrier is provided to hold a centrally apertured disk while magnetic material is coated simultaneously on the two surfaces of the disk. A carrier includes a plate which contains a first opening through the plate slightly smaller than the disk diameter and a second opening partially through the plate formed about a center line offset from the center line of the first opening to form a recess around an upper portion of first opening edge. The disk is directed into the recess and first opening and then lowered into a groove at the bottom of the first opening. The groove and recess in conjunction with the disk edges block flow of plasma and impurities from one side of the disk to the other during simultaneous coating of magnetic media on the disk surfaces. A two-part plug is placed in the disk center aperture, one part containing a spring or magnet for holding the two parts together in the disk. The plug also serves as a handle by which the disk can be carried, mounted in or removed from the carrier. A plurality of carrier openings allow all surfaces of a corresponding plurality of disks mounted therein to be coated simultaneously with magnetic media. Some of the second openings may be provided on one side and the remainder of the second openings on the other side of the carrier to provide for simultaneous loading and unloading of disks from both sides of the carrier.
Claims We claim: 1. A carrier for mounting a circular two-sided disk of fixed diameter and having an annular planar surface on each of the two disk sides to be coated with magnetic material, said planar surfaces extending from inward of a peripheral edge of said disk to a central aperture in said disk, said carrier comprising: a carrier plate; a first circular opening extending through said carrier plate, said first circular opening having a diameter slightly less than the diameter of said disk and being bounded in part by a wall positioned to support a disk peripheral edge; and a second circular segment opening in said carrier plate having its center of revolution offset from said first circular opening, extending partly through said carrier plate and extending partially around said first circular opening such that a recess is formed in such carrier plate partially around said first circular opening, said recess being sized to receive peripheral edge portions of said disk permitting coating of said planar surface on both sides of said disk and wherein said disk when mounted in said carrier plate abuts said wall of said first circular opening and said recess. 2. The carrier set forth in claim 1 further comprising a plurality of said first and said second openings in said carrier plate to allow both said annular planar surfaces of each of a plurality of disks to be held within said first openings while said planar surfaces are being coated with magnetic material on each disk side. 3. The carrier as set forth in claim 2 in which some of said plurality of second openings extend partly within said carrier plate from a first side of said carrier plate and the remainder of said plurality of second openings extend partly within said carrier plate from a second side of said carrier plate opposite said first side of said carrier plate, whereby some of said plurality of disks may be inserted and removed from one side of said carrier plate and the remainder of said plurality of disks may be inserted and removed from the opposite side of said carrier plate. 4. The carrier as set forth in claim 3 in which essentially one-half of said second openings extend partly into said carrier plate on the first side of said carrier plate and essentially one-half of said second openings extend partly into said carrier plate on said second side of said carrier plate. 5. The carrier set forth in claim 1 wherein said carrier plate contains multiple first and second openings for holding a corresponding multiple number of disks to be coated with magnetic material. 6. The carrier set forth in claim 5 wherein said carrier plate is rectangular. 7. The carrier as set forth in claim 1 wherein said recess is sized to have a back side of about half the thickness of a disk to be mounted in said recess such that the planar surface on the side of a mounted disk opposite said recess does not touch said carrier plate. 8. A carrier for mounting a circular two-sided disk of fixed diameter and having an annular planar surface on each of the two disk sides to be coated with magnetic material, said planar surfaces extending from inward of a peripheral edge of said disk to a central aperture in said disk, said carrier comprising: a carrier plate; a first circular opening extending through said carrier plate, said first circular opening having a diameter slightly less than the diameter of said disk and being bounded in part by a wall positioned to support a disk peripheral edge; and a second opening in said carrier plate offset from said first circular opening, extending partly through said carrier plate and extending partially around said first circular opening such that a recess is formed in such carrier plate partially around said first circular opening, said recess being sized to receive peripheral edge portions of said disk and wherein said disk when mounted in said carrier plate abuts said wall of said first circular opening and said recess, further comprising a plug closure for said disk central aperture, said plug closure comprising first and second plug portions assembled on peripheral edges of opposite sides of said disk central aperture radially inward from said annular planar surfaces on said disk and including means for temporarily holding said plug portions in position in the central aperture of said disk thereby to seal said central aperture and prevent material from passing through said central aperture during the coating of said two disk sides. 9. A carrier for mounting a circular two-sided disk of fixed diameter and having an annular planar surface on each of the two disk sides to be coated with magnetic material, said planar surfaces extending from inward of a peripheral edge of said disk to a central aperture in said disk, said carrier comprising: a carrier plate; a first circular opening extending through said carrier plate, said first circular opening having a diameter slightly less than the diameter of said disk and being bounded in part by a wall positioned to support a disk peripheral edge; and a second opening in said carrier plate offset from said first circular opening, extending partly through said carrier plate and extending partially around said first circular opening such that a recess is formed in such carrier plate partialy around said first circular opening, said recess being sized to receive peripheral edge portions of said disk and wherein said disk when mounted in said carrier plate abuts said wall of said first circular opening and said recess and in which said wall partly bounding said first circular opening comprises a groove extending into the carrier plate over an arc of said first circular opening. 10. The carrier set forth in claim 9 in which said groove is V-shaped. 11. The carrier set forth in claim 9 in which said groove is U-shaped. 12. The carrier as set forth in claim 11 in which said U-shaped groove is positioned at a bottom arc of said first circular opening as said carrier plate is oriented vertically and extends symmetrically about a central plane of said carrier plate. 