A method is disclosed herein for lifting thrusters on vessels enabling for on vessel maintenance at sea. The method can include engaging a thruster mounting flange with a thruster well bottom flange; installing alignment guide plates to provide a rough alignment; positioning a seal to provide a connection; installing fasteners to secure the flanges; actuating clamps to secure the flanges while compressing the seal; raising the thruster out of the thruster well; transporting the thruster to a deck of the floating vessel; actuating clamps to hold the flanges; removing the fasteners; flowing water into the thruster well; disengaging the clamps; and lifting the thruster with the lifting means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for lifting thrusters on floating vessels for floating vessel transit, for floating vessel dry docking, for thruster maintenance, or combinations thereof, the method comprising: a. forming a thruster well with a thruster well wall and a thruster well bottom flange for engagement with a thruster mounting flange of a thruster, wherein the thruster at least partially extends into water through a hull of a floating vessel; b. installing a plurality of alignment guide plates concentrically around the thruster in the thruster well, wherein each alignment guide plate extends from proximate the thruster well bottom flange to a thruster well wall top of the thruster well wall to provide a rough alignment of the thruster mounting flange to the thruster well bottom flange; c. positioning a least one seal adjacent the thruster mounting flange to provide a water tight connection between the thruster well bottom flange and the thruster mounting flange; d. installing a plurality of fasteners to secure the thruster mounting flange to the thruster well bottom flange while compressing the at least one seal; e. forming a plurality of clevises on an inside surface of the thruster well wall; f. fastening a plurality of clamps to the thruster well wall using the plurality of clevises, wherein each clamp has an actuator adapted to extend and retract and a linkage connected to the actuator; g. maintaining each of the clamps in an open position during normal thruster operation, and during removal of the thruster: actuating each clamp to extend to a closed position to secure the thruster mounting flange to the thruster well bottom flange while compressing the at least one seal; h. lowering a flexible lift line and a connector of a lifting means into the thruster well, and engaging the connector with a lifting eye of the thruster or with a lifting eye of a portion of the thruster; i. raising the thruster or the portion of the thruster out of the thruster well using the lifting means; j. transporting the thruster or the portion of the thruster using a moveable transport device connected to the lifting means to a deck of the floating vessel; k. actuating each of the plurality of clamps to extend to hold the thruster mounting flange against the thruster well bottom flange and to ensure that the at least one seal remains compressed, and while the clamps are actuated, removing the plurality of fasteners that secure the thruster mounting flange to the thruster well bottom flange; l. flooding the thruster well with water; m. disengaging the plurality of clamps; and n. lifting the thruster with the lifting means. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: a. positioning the lifted thruster over the thruster well; b. lowering the lifted thruster into the thruster well using the lifting means and the plurality of alignment guide plates to position the thruster in the thruster well on the thruster well bottom flange; c. actuating the plurality of clamps to compress the at least one seal to secure the thruster mounting flange against the thruster well bottom flange; d. pumping the water out of the thruster well; e. installing the plurality of fasteners that secure the thruster mounting flange to the thruster well bottom flange; and f. disengaging the plurality of clamps. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising additionally guiding the thruster into the thruster well using at least one index guide connected to the inside surface of the thruster well wall to fit the thruster into a correct orientation on the thruster well bottom flange. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising using a spreader bar with a spreader bar connector or using a sling with a sling connector to engage the connector and to additionally engage the lifting eye of the thruster. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising using alignment pins in the thruster well bottom flange to refine a position of the thruster as the thruster is lowered to the thruster well bottom flange. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising using at least one alignment guide plate as an index guide. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising using clamp style nuts to facilitate rapid fastening and un-fastening of the thruster to the thruster well bottom flange and to minimize time that humans have to be in the thruster well. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising using a manipulator to transport the thruster, wherein the manipulator clamps onto the thruster and moves toward the thruster well wall top along the inside surface of the thruster well wall while supporting the thruster. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: a. connecting the manipulator to a power supply to lift and turn the thruster; b. slidingly attaching the manipulator to at least one rail, wherein the at least one rail is affixed to the inside surface of the thruster well wall and extends from proximate the thruster well bottom flange to the thruster well wall top; and c. using robot arms with the manipulator to position the thruster for easy maintenance access. 10. The method of claim 1, further using a rod to engage each linkage, wherein each actuator is a hydraulic cylinder or a pneumatic cylinder. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: a. using a second lifting means to position the thruster for easy maintenance access; b. using from three to one hundred alignment guide plates in the thruster well; c. using from three to forty clamps in each thruster well; d. using from three to forty clevises in each thruster well; or e. combinations thereof. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: a. placing a top cover over the thruster well; and b. installing a bottom cover over an opening formed in the thruster well bottom flange while the thruster is removed from the thruster well. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein each actuator comprises a hydraulic cylinder, the method further comprising: powering and actuating the hydraulic cylinder using a hydraulic power unit fluidly connected to the hydraulic cylinder through a hydraulic feed line. 14. The method of claim 1, further supplying the water to the thruster well from a water reservoir, and thereby equalizing a water pressure in the thruster well with a water pressure outside the floating vessel. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising using a pressure washer connected to a conduit fluidly connected to the water reservoir to wash down the thruster. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising, during the lowering of the thruster into the thruster well, using the lifting means and the alignment guide plates to position the thruster in the thruster well offset to a central axis of the thruster well. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: a. cladding the thruster well bottom flange with stainless steel or another corrosion resistant material; and b. cladding the thruster mounting flange with stainless steel or another corrosion resistant material. 18. The method of claim 1, further comprising using at least one test port to test the at least one seal to verify the water tight connection. 19. A method for lifting thrusters on floating vessels for floating vessel transit, for floating vessel dry docking, for thruster maintenance, or combinations thereof, the method comprising: a. engaging a thruster mounting flange of a thruster with a thruster well bottom flange of a thruster well; b. installing a plurality of alignment guide plates concentrically around the thruster in the thruster well to provide a rough alignment of the thruster mounting flange to the thruster well bottom flange; c. positioning a least one seal adjacent the thruster mounting flange to provide a connection between the thruster well bottom flange and the thruster mounting flange; d. installing a plurality of fasteners to secure the thruster mounting flange to the thruster well bottom flange while compressing the at least one seal; e. maintaining a plurality of clamps attached to the thruster well in an open position during normal thruster operation, and during removal of the thruster: actuating each clamp to extend to a closed position to secure the thruster mounting flange to the thruster well bottom flange while compressing the at least one seal; f. using a lifting means to raise the thruster or a portion of the thruster out of the thruster well; g. transporting the thruster or the portion of the thruster using a transport device connected to the lifting means to a deck of the floating vessel; h. actuating each of the plurality of clamps to extend to hold the thruster mounting flange against the thruster well bottom flange and to ensure that the at least one seal remains compressed; i. while the clamps are actuated, removing the plurality of fasteners that secure the thruster mounting flange to the thruster well bottom flange; j. flowing water into the thruster well; k. disengaging the plurality of clamps; and l. lifting the thruster with the lifting means. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: a. positioning the lifted thruster over the thruster well; b. lowering the lifted thruster into the thruster well using the lifting means and the plurality of alignment guide plates to position the thruster in the thruster well on the thruster well bottom flange; c. actuating the plurality of clamps to compress the at least one seal to secure the thruster mounting flange against the thruster well bottom flange; d. flowing the water out of the thruster well; e. installing the plurality of fasteners to secure the thruster mounting flange to the thruster well bottom flange; and f. disengaging the plurality of clamps. 