The present invention provides a novel system for efficiently and accurately analyzing targets in samples and for preparing samples for analysis with various analytical methods. A version of the present invention comprises a multi-function probe, configured for pipetting liquids directly, with a pipet tip, or with an assay unit described herein. Another version of the present invention includes an apparatus for conducting an immunoassay or selective adsorption separation comprising an assay unit and a multi-function probe. Another version of the present invention includes a multi-function probe and assay unit for use with an automated Cartesian robot. Other versions include one- or two-dimensional arrays comprising multi-function probes connected to syringe barrels for use with assay units.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: an assay unit comprising: a packed bed; porous bed supports mounted in the assay unit at opposite ends of the packed bed; solid phase support beads located in the packed bed and having a selective-binding or reaction reagent mounted on their surface; an outlet from the assay unit having an outer perimeter and located below the packed bed; an inlet sealing surface adjacent to the packed bed; an upper section having an inside surface dimensioned to form a friction contact with an outside surface of a probe hub, and further comprising at least one raised rib extending from the inside surface of the upper section, wherein the rib defines at least one gap between the inside surface of the upper section and the outside surface of the probe hub to provide venting of air around the probe hub, and to prevent creating an air-tight seal between the upper section and the probe hub; a multi-function probe comprising: a hub; a needle with a lumen disposed within the hub and extending from it, wherein the needle is dimensioned and configured to aspirate and dispense liquid directly and to form a fluid-tight liquid seal with the inlet sealing surface of the assay unit. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the inlet sealing surface is dimensioned to form a fluid-tight, friction seal with a device selected from the group consisting of tubing having an outer diameter of from about 0.75 to about 1 mm and hypodermic needles having a gauge of from about 19 to about 21. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a chamber having a frusto-conical shape and positioned between the upper section and the inlet sealing surface. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the hub forms a fluid-tight, friction seal with a proximal end of a pipet tip, wherein the multi-function probe is dimensioned and configured to aspirate and dispense liquid through the needle when the pipet tip is not attached to the hub and to aspirate and dispense liquid through the pipet tip when the pipet tip is attached to the hub. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a tubular probe shaft, a syringe pump, and a Cartesian robot, wherein the multi-function probe is mounted on the tubular probe shaft and is in fluid connection with the tubular probe shaft, the Cartesian robot controls movement of the tubular probe shaft and the attached multi-function probe in X, Y, and Z axes, and the syringe pump is configured to aspirate and dispense liquids through the multi-function probe. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the upper section of the assay unit further comprises a raised set of ribs, the upper section of the hub is dimensioned and configured to form a friction fit with the ribs of the assay unit, and the ribs of the assay unit define a gap between the upper section of the assay unit and the hub when the probe is inserted in the assay unit. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the inlet scaling surface is dimensioned to form a fluid-tight, friction seal with a device selected from the group consisting of tubing having an outer diameter of from about 0.75 to about 1 mm and hypodermic needles having a gauge of from about 19 to about 21. 8. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a chamber having a tirusto-conical shape and positioned between the upper section and the inlet scaling surface. 9. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a syringe barrel and a syringe plunger, wherein the multi-function probe is mounted on the syringe barrel and is in fluid connection with the syringe barrel, and the syringe plunger is configured to aspirate and dispense liquids through the multi-function probe. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a cylindrical extension mounted on the syringe plunger, wherein the cylindrical extension moveably fits into the lumen of the needle. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the upper section of the assay unit further comprises a raised set of ribs, the upper section of the hub is dimensioned and configured to form a friction fit with the ribs of the assay unit, and the ribs of the assay unit define a gap between the upper section of the assay unit and the upper section of the hub when the probe is inserted in the assay unit. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the inlet sealing surface is dimensioned to form a fluid-tight, friction seal with a device selected from the group consisting of tubing having an outer diameter of from about 0.75 to about 1 mm and hypodermic needles having a gauge of from about 19 to about 21. 13. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a chamber having a frusto-conical shape and positioned between the upper section and the inlet sealing surface. 14. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising a support plate, an upper retaining plate, and a seal, wherein the support plate is disposed below the syringe barrel, the upper retaining plate is disposed above the syringe barrel, and the support plate and the upper retaining plate are configured to prevent movement of the syringe barrel in a vertical axis, and wherein the seal is connected to the needle within the syringe barrel, and the seal and the plunger are configured to prevent movement of the syringe barrel in a horizontal axis. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a wash manifold comprising a chimney, a suction chamber, and a plenum, wherein the chimney is dimensioned and configured to hold liquid and to fit the needle or the pipet tip within it, the suction chamber is configured to remove liquid from the chimney, and the plenum is configured to pump liquid into the chimney. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising a stripper plate. 17. An automated liquid handling array comprising two or more apparatuses as claimed in claim 14, wherein the apparatuses are assembled in a one- or two-dimensional array and the syringe plungers are coupled to a common drive plate. 18. An apparatus comprising: an assay unit comprising: a packed bed; porous bed supports mounted in the assay unit at opposite ends of the packed bed; solid phase support beads located in the packed bed and having a selective-binding or reaction reagent mounted on their surface; an outlet from the assay unit having an outer perimeter and located below the packed bed; an inlet sealing surface adjacent to the packed bed, having a frusto-conical shape, and dimensioned to form a fluid-tight, friction seal with a device selected from the group consisting of tubing having an outer diameter of from about 0.75 to about 1 mm and hypodermic needles having a gauge of from about 19 to about 21; an upper section having a frusto-conical inside surface, and further comprising at least one raised rib extending from the inside surface of the upper section, wherein the rib defines at least one gap between the inside surface of the upper section and the outside surface of the probe hub to provide venting of air around the probe hub, and to prevent creating an air-tight seal between the upper section and the probe hub or second assay unit; a multi-function probe comprising: a frusto-conical hub; a needle with a lumen disposed within the hub and extending from it, wherein the needle is dimensioned and configured to aspirate and dispense liquid directly and to form a fluid-tight liquid seal with the inlet sealing surface of the assay unit. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a chamber having a frusto-conical shape and positioned between the upper section and the inlet sealing surface. 