The apparatus effects transfer and connection of tools between a tool holder and at least one bracket of a robot hand. A pin upon the tool holder and a pin upon the bracket are received during tool transfer within a bore extending through the tool shank, one of the pins entering the bore from one end thereof and the other pin entering from the other end of the bore. The free ends of the pins abut during transfer of the tool between the tool holder and the bracket. Two tools may be simultaneously transferred in the preferred embodiment of the apparatus. The connection between the bracket and the tool permits limited movement of the former relative to the latter, and a sensor may be provided to detect such movement.
Claims We claim: 1. In a robotic tool changing apparatus including a tool holder, a movable robot hand, and a tool adapted to be selectively connected to said tool holder and to said hand, the improvement comprising: bracket means connected to said hand for movement therewith; engageable and disengageable connecting means upon said bracket means and upon said tool for, when engaged, connecting said tool to said bracket; engageable and disengageable connecting means upon said tool holder and upon said tool for, when engaged, connecting said tool to said holder; said first mentioned connecting means including a pin element upon said brakcet means, and said second mentioned connecting means including a pin element upon said tool holder, and each said connecting means including a pin receiving opening extending through said tool and having first and second opposite end portions for receiving respective ones of said pin elements. 2. Apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said pin elements have free end portions that abut each other during transfer of said tool between said bracket means and said holder. 3. Apparatus as in claim 2, wherein one of said pin elements is moveable between extended and retracted positions. 4. Aparatus as in claim 3, and further including means carried by said bracket means for basing said one of said pin elements toward an extended position thereof, and means for adjustably varying the biasing force of said biasing means. 5. Apparatus as in claim 4, wherein said first connecting means further includes stud elements upon said tool and stud receiving elements upon said brackets means, said stud elements and said stud receiving elements being resiliently maintained in cooperating relationship with each other by said one of said pin elements and said biasing means of said bracket means. 6. Apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said first mentioned connecting means permits, when engaged, limited movement of said tool relative to said bracket means. 7. Apparatus as in claim 6, and further including adjustable means carried by said bracket means for restricting to an adjustably variable degree the extent of said movement of said tool relative to said bracket means. 8. Apparatus as in claim 6, and further including sensor means for detecting said movement of said tool relative to said bracket means. 9. In a robotic tool changing apparatus including a tool holder, a movable robot hand, and a pair of tools adapted to be selectively transferred between and connected to said tool holder and to said hand, the improvement comprising: a pair of bracket means connected to said hand for movement therewith and for movement relative to said hand and to each other; engagable and disengagable connecting means upon said pair of brackets means and upon said tools for, when engaged, connecting said tools to respective ones of said bracket means; engagable and disengagable connecting means upon said tool holder and upon said tools for, when engaged, connecting said tools to said holde; said first mentioned connecting means including pin elements disposed upon respective ones of said bracket means and projecting therefrom toward one another, and said second mentioned connecting means including pin elements disposed upon and projecting outwardly from opposite sides of said tool holder; said tools having pin receiving openings therein forming part of said first mentioned and said second mentioned connecting means and each having first and second opposite end portions, said first end portions of said openings receiving said first mentioned pin elements and said second end portions of said openings simultaneously receiving said second mentioned pin elements during transfer of said tools between said hand said said holder. 10. Apparatus as in claim 9, wherein said pin receiving openings extend completely through said tools. 