Provided is printer assembly for a pagewidth printer, said assembly having a support frame for supporting a printhead arrangement. The support frame includes an outer wall portion and an inner wall portion separated by an internal cavity, as well as a lower arm portion and an upper wall fast with the outer and inner wall portions. The upper wall portion defines a channel for operatively receiving the printhead arrangement, said upper wall portion and arm portion having a clipping arrangement configured to complementarily receive a printed circuit board (PCB) support having electronic for controlling the printhead arrangement. The support frame is configured to minimize substantial dimensional changes due to environmental changes to retain a positional relationship between individual printhead tiles of the printhead arrangement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printer assembly for a pagewidth printer, said assembly having a support frame for supporting a printhead arrangement, the support frame comprising: an outer wall portion and an inner wall portion separated by an internal cavity; a lower arm portion and an upper wall portion fast with the outer and inner wall portions, said upper wall portion defining a channel for operatively receiving the printhead arrangement, said upper wall portion and arm portion having a clipping arrangement configured to complementarily receive a printed circuit board (PCB) support having electronics for controlling the printhead arrangement, wherein the support frame is configured to minimize substantial dimensional changes due to environmental changes to retain a positional relationship between individual printhead tiles of the printhead arrangement. 2. The printer assembly of claim 1, wherein the upper wall portion has an upper wall and two generally parallel side walls of the support frame, said side walls arranged as outer and inner side walls of the channel. 3. The printer assembly of claim 2, wherein the two side walls have different heights with the taller, outer side wall being defined as an upper portion of the outer wall portion which extends above the upper wall of the support frame, and the shorter, inner side wall being provided as an upward extension of the upper wall substantially parallel to the inner wall portion. 4. The printer assembly of claim 3, wherein the outer side wall includes a recess or groove formed along a length thereof, a bottom surface of the recess positioned so as to be at the same height as a top surface of the inner side wall with respect to the upper wall of the channel, the recess having an upper surface which is formed as a ridge which runs along a length of the outer side wall. 5. The printer assembly of claim 4, wherein the recess is shaped and dimensioned so that longitudinally extending tabs of a fluid channel member of the printhead arrangement are receivable within the recess so as to be held between the lower and upper surfaces thereof to secure the channel member in place on the support. 6. The printer assembly of claim 5, wherein the outer side wall includes a slanted portion along a top margin thereof, the slanted portion provided for fixing a print media guide to the support, said guide configured to assist in guiding print media across printhead integrated circuits of the printhead arrangement for printing without making direct contact with the printhead integrated circuits. 