An object-gripping device, particularly useful for gripping thin-wall tubes, comprises a first flexible gripping member formed with two loops adapted to partially enclose one side of the object, and a second flexible gripping member formed with a third loop interposed between the two loops of the first member and adapted to partially enclose the opposite side of the object. The gripping device further includes means engaging the opposite ends of the two gripping members to move them away from each other to cause their loops to grip the object, or towards each other to cause them to release the object. A sleeve is provided for each gripping member and is movable along its length to vary the effective gripping size of the loops formed by the two members. Also described is an industrial robot having a vertical arm carrying the object-gripping device such as to enable the arm to grip and release an object from above.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An object-gripping device particularly useful for gripping thin-wall tubes, comprising: a first gripping member formed at one end with two spaced loops adapted to partially enclose one side of the object; a second gripping member formed at one end with a third loop interposed between the two loops of the first gripping member and adapted to partially enclose the opposite side of the object; and actuator means engaging the opposite ends of the two gripping members and adapted to move them away from each other to cause their loops to grip the object, or towards each other to cause their loops to release the object. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein said first gripping member comprises two flexible strips each formed as a loop at an intermediate portion, the four ends of the two strips being secured together; said second gripping member comprising a third flexible strip formed as a loop at an intermediate portion which loop is interposed between the two loops of said first gripping member, the two ends of the third strip being secured together. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein said first gripping member comprises a first flexible strip formed with a pair of slots separated by a central web; and wherein said second gripping member comprises a second flexible strip looped through said pair of slots such that said first strip defines said two spaced loops joined together by said central web and partially enclosing one side of the object, and said second strip defines said third loop interposed between said two spaced loops and partially enclosing the other side of the object. 4. The device according to claim 3, wherein said second flexible strip comprises an intermediate portion having a width substantially equal to that of the slots of said first strip, and end portions having a width substantially larger than that of said intermediate portion. 5. The device according to claim 4, wherein said first flexible strip has a substantially uniform width, and wherein the width of said end portions of the second flexible strip is substantially equal to that of the first flexible strip. 6. The device according to claim 3, wherein the length of said central web separating said pair of slots in the first flexible strip is at least equal to the width of said slots. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein said two gripping members are of looped flexible material and further include a sleeve for each member which sleeves enclose the movable ends of the gripping members for fixing the effective gripping size of the loops formed by them. 8. The device according to claim 7, wherein said sleeves are movable along their respective gripping members for varying said effective gripping size of the loops formed by the two members. 9. The device according to claim 7, wherein said sleeves are made of resilient elastomeric material. 10. The device according to claim 1, wherein said gripping members are made of resilient elastomeric material. 11. The device according to claim 1, wherein said gripping members are made of a photoelastic material so as to provide an optical indication of the force applied thereto during use. 12. An industrial robot having a vertical arm carrying at its end an object-gripping device according to claim 1, the actuator means engaging the opposite ends of the two gripping members being movable in the horizontal plane away from each other to cause their loops to grip the object from above, or towards each other to cause their loops to release the object. 13. The industrial robot according to claim 12, wherein each of said gripping members includes a sleeve movable along the length thereof for varying the effective gripping size of the loops formed by the two members. 14. The industrial robot according to claim 12, wherein said gripping members are made of photoelastic material so as to provide an optical indication of the force applied thereto during use. 