A high angular resolution ranging system particularly suitable for indoor plications involving mobile robot navigation and collision avoidance uses a programmable array of light emitters that can be sequentially incremented by a microprocessor. A plurality of adjustable level threshold detectors are used in an optical receiver for detecting the threshold level of the light echoes produced when light emitted from one or more of the emitters is reflected by a target or object in the scan path of the ranging system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A ranging system comprising: transmitter means for radiating light pulses, said transmitter means after having an on state for radiating light pulses and an off state when no light is radiated and including means for selectively varying the intensity of said radiated light pulses when in said on state; and receiver means for detecting the existence of and intensity of light reflections from said light pulses as reflected by a reflector of light. 2. The ranging system of claim 1 wherein said receiver means comprises: a plurality of threshold detectors, each being triggered in response to a different level of intensity of said light reflectors. 3. The ranging system of claim 2 wherein said transmitter means comprises: means for sequentially incrementing the intensity of said transmitted light pulses. 4. The ranging system of claim 3 wherein said receiver means has an output and wherein said means for incrementing comprises: a microprocessor having an input connected to the output of said receiver means and having an output; a plurality of light emitters; and means connected to said output of said microprocessor and to each of said light emitters for enabling the emission of light from one or more of said plurality of light emitters. 5. The ranging system of claim 3 wherein said means for enabling comprises: a binary to seven segment converter having an input, said input being connected to said microprocessor and having a plurality of outputs, each of said plurality of outputs being connected to one of said light emitters. 6. The ranging system of claim 4 wherein said microprocessor is programmed to: (a) enable at least one of said plurality of light emitters; (b) determined if a light reflection has been received by said receiver means and, if not; (c) enable at least one more of said plurality of light emitters; and the (d) repeat said steps (b) and (c) above until a light reflection has been received or until each of said plurality of light emitters has been enabled. 7. The ranging system of claim 1 wherein said transmitter means comprising: means for sequentially incrementing the intensity of said transmitted light pulses. 8. The ranging system of claim 7 wherein said receiver means has an output and wherein said means for incrementing comprises: a microprocessor having an input connected to the output of said receiver means and having an output; a plurality of light emitters; and means connected to said output of said microprocessor and to each of said light emitters for enabling the emission of light from one or more of said plurality of light emitters. 9. The ranging system of claim 8 wherein said means for enabling comprises: a binary to seven segment converter. 10. The ranging system of claim 8 wherein said microprocessor is programmed to: (a) enable at least one of said plurality of light emitters; (b) determined if a light reflection has been received by said receiver means and, if not; (c) enable at least one more of said plurality of light emitters; and then (d) repeat said steps (b) and (c) above until a light reflection has been received or until each of said plurality of light emitters has been enabled. 11. The ranging system of claim 2 wherein said receiver means comprises: means for generating a signal in response to each said light reflection detected by said receiver means. 12. The ranging system of claim 11 wherein said means for generating a signal includes: an output; and each of said plurality of threshold detectors comprises: a comparator for comparing the signal on the output of said means for generating with a reference signal. 13. The ranging system of claim 12 wherein: there is a different reference signal applied to each of said comparators. 14. The ranging system of claim 11 wherein: said radiated light pulses are in the near-infrared frequency range. 15. The ranging system of claim 7 wherein said means for sequentially incrementing the intensity of said transmitted light pulses increments the intensity of said transmitted light pulses in discreet steps. 