A robotic joint for use in toys to provide locomotion to animated figures, sub-assemblies, and toy construction building sets. The robotic joint is particularly adaptable because one side of the joint carries the motor that is powering the joint. It also provides for four-way action in a joint in a very compact space by attaching a motorized joint directly to the shaft of another motor. It can also provide up to eight-way action in a joint, since each motor turns the shaft or turns the motor housing based on the amount of resistance applied to the shaft. This can be demonstrated in a joint that is used to support a foot in which the foot has a motor for locomotion, and the limb has a motor for locomotion connected by a four-way joint.
Claims What I claim is: 1. A robotic joint movement device which allows locomotion between a first limb and a second limb comprising: a universal joint universally connecting said first limb and said second limb, said universal joint having a first bracket fixedly attached to said first limb and pivotally attached to a second bracket and said second bracket fixedly attached to said second limb; a first motor having a first housing and a first shaft, said first housing attached to said second limb; said first shaft fixedly attached to said first limb and pivotally attached to said second bracket such that said shaft can rotate freely about said second bracket; a second motor having a second housing and a second shaft, said second motor aligned such that said second shaft is substantially perpendicular to said first shaft; said second housing attached to said second limb; and said second shaft attached to said second limb and pivotally attached to said first bracket such that said first bracket can rotate freely such that said first bracket can rotate freely about said second shaft. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said first and second housings are releasable attached to said first limb. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein said first and second shaft are releasable attached to said universal joint. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein said first and second motors move said second limb through more than one plane in relation to said first limb. 5. A robotic joint movement device which allows locomotion between a first limb and a second limb comprising: a universal joint having a first bracket pivotally attached to a second bracket such that said second bracket is capable of omni-directional movement in relation to said first bracket; a first motor having a first housing and a first shaft, said first housing attached to said second limb; said first shaft attached to said first limb such that force provided by said first shaft moves said second limb; a second motor having a second housing and a second shaft, said second housing attached to said second limb substantially perpendicular to said first housing; and said second shaft attached to said first limb such that force provided by said second shaft moves said second limb substantially perpendicular to said first drive means. 6. The device of claim 5 wherein said first and second housings are releasable attached to said respective limb. 7. The device of claim 5 wherein said first and second shafts are releasable attached to said respective limbs. 8. The device of claim 5 wherein said first and second shafts move said second limb through more than one plane in relation to said first limb. 9. The device of claim 5 wherein said first and second shafts move clockwise and counterclockwise. 