An automated method of making an electrical harness of the type having a plurality of discrete wires includes one end of some or all of the wires terminating in a conductor. A wire of a desired type is automatically selected from a plurality of wires that are available for use. The wire is terminated with selected terminals and one end inserted into an appropriate cavity of a selected connector housing. Of the selected wires, at least one is of a different type than the others.
Claims (a1) claim: 1. In an automated method of making an electrical harness of the type comprising a plurality of discrete wires, each wire having a first end and a second end, the second end of some of the wires being connected to a terminal in a multi-contact electrical connector selected from a plurality of such connectors, wherein said plurality of discrete wires includes a wire of one type and a wire of another type, the steps of: (a) selecting only a single wire from said plurality of wires, the proximate end of said selected wire being said first end and feeding said selected wire through a single wire passageway so that said first end projects therefrom; then (a1) determining the type of terminal desired and pivoting a portion of said selected wire until said first end is presented to a selected press having said desired terminal; (b) terminating said first end by operating said press to attach a first discrete terminal thereto while said first end projects from said wire passageway; then (c) cutting a wire segment of predetermined length from said selected wire, the cut end of said wire segment being said second end; (d) terminating said second end of said wire segment by attaching a second discrete terminal thereto; (e) moving said second end of said wire segment to a connector loading zone and inserting said second end and attached terminal into a selected cavity in a selected connector housing; and (f) repeating steps (a) through (e) for a plurality of selected wires, wherein step (a) each wire is fed through the same said single wire passageway. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein step (a) includes determining the desired type of the wire to be selected and identifying which of said plurality of wires is that desired type. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said repeating of steps (a) through (e) includes selecting a wire of a different type than that selected in one of the preceding steps (a). 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said inserting of step (e) comprises moving said selected connector housing until said selected cavity is in a particular position then inserting said second end and attached terminal thereinto. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein step (f) includes determining the desired type of connector housing to be selected and loading it into an X-Y robot. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said repeating of step (f) is continued until at least two connector housings have been selected and each has said second end of at least one wire segment inserted therein. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein step (b) includes selecting a first press containing said first discrete terminal from a plurality of presses containing different terminals, and wherein step (d) includes selecting a second press containing said second discrete terminal from said plurality of presses. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said moving said selected connector housing includes actuating said X-Y robot. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein step (c) includes stripping the cut end of said selected wire, then reverse-feeding said selected wire until said stripped cut end is retracted a predetermined distance. 