Method and apparatus are disclosed for providing mechanical amplification particularly suited for the driving system of mechanical robots. An electronic control system is provided for interfacing a user with the robot driving system. The robot driving system includes a mechanical motion control system coupled to receive electric control signals from the electronic control system and to provide in response thereto precision linear movement indicative of the movement required of the mechanical driving system. A high-power motor is provided for rotating a cylinder to thereby provide the input driving power to the mechanical amplifier. A linear drive system responds to rotation of the cylinder and the precision movements of the mechanical motion controller to traverse the cylinder and thereby provide the mechanical motion output.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for providing mechanical motion in response to an input, comprising: motion control means including a control arm responsive to the input for linearly displacing said control arm; power drive means for providing rotational movement, said power drive means including an elongate cylinder and means for rotating said cylinder; and linear drive means including a trolley assembly for providing the mechanical output, said linear drive means being coupled to said power drive means and responsive to the rotation of said cylinder and the linear displacement of said control arm for traversing said cylinder and displacing said trolley assembly such that said linear drive means provides output motion which is a function of the power supplied by said power drive means and the linear displacement of said control arm. 2. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said motion control means further comprises: a small low power precision motor including a rotatable shaft rotating said shaft in response to the electrical input signal; and means coupled to said control arm for linearly displacing said control arm in response to the angular rotation of said shaft. 3. Apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein said means for displacing said control arm comprises a continuous belt coupled to said motor shaft at one end and coupled to an idler bearing at the other end, said control arm being coupled to intermediate said ends such that rotation of said shaft causes displacement of said continuous belt resulting in linear displacement of said control arm. 4. Apparatus as recited in claim 3 wherein said low power motor comprises a stepper motor with an incremental encoder. 5. Apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said linear drive means further comprises: movable carriage means for traversing said cylinder said movable carriage means including means for restricting the motion along said cylinder to linear motion; steerable wheel means for propelling said linear drive system, said steerable wheel means including an axle assembly and being adapted to rotate about said axle assembly in response to rotation of said cylinder, said axle assembly being rotationally mounted to said movable carriage means such that said axle assembly can rotate within said movable carriage to create an attack angle between the major axes of said cylinder and said axle assembly, the attack angle being zero when the major axes of said cylinder and said axle assembly are parallel in a single plane, said steerable wheel providing a propelling force to said movable carriage when the attack angle is not zero; and tiller means coupled to said steerable wheel means and responsive to displacement of said control arm for rotating said axle assembly and thereby altering the attack angle. 6. Apparatus as recited in claim 5 wherein said steerable wheel means comprises a cylinder having a high coefficient of friction. 7. Apparatus as recited in claim 5 wherein said motion control means further comprises: a low power precision motor including a rotatable shaft for rotating said shaft in response to the electrical input signal; and means coupled to said control arm linearly displacing said control arm in response to the angular rotation of said shaft. 8. Apparatus as recited in claim 7 wherein said means for displacing said control arm comprises a continuous belt coupled to said motor shaft at one end and coupled to an idler bearing at the other end, said control arm being coupled intermediate said ends such that rotation of said shaft causes displacement of said continuous belt resulting in linear displacement of said control arm. 9. A robot drive system for providing precision, high-power output, comprising: power drive means for providing a predetermined quantity of rotary power, said power drive means including a drive motor and an elongated cylinder wherein said drive motor is adapted to rotate said cylinder; control means for interfacing a user with the robot drive system, said electronic control means being adapted to receive user input commands indicative of the desired output mechanical motion, said electronic control means including memory for storing data indicative of the user supply mechanical motion commands, said electronic control means being responsive to the user supplied commands and said memory for supplying electrical control signals; mechanical motion control means including a control arm for controlling the motion of said linear drive means, said mechanical motion control means being responsive to said electrical control signal for displacing said control arm; and linear drive means including an output arm for providing the robot drive system output, said linear drive system being responsive to displacement of said control arm for traversing said cylinder and thereby driving said output arm. 10. Apparatus as recited in claim 9 wherein said mechanical motion control means further comprises: transducing means for monitoring the speed of said drive motor, said transducing means being adapted to provide an electrical feedback signal indicative of the speed of said drive motor, said electronic control means being further responsive to the electrical feedback signal to modulate the electrical control signals provided to said mechanical motion control means such that during times at which the speed of said motor is less than a predetermined value, the rate at which said output arm moves is reduced to thereby reduce the instantaneous power required from said drive motor. 11. Apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein said electronic control means further comprises: data entry means for receiving input commands from a user; data display means for displaying the operational status of said electronic control means to a user; microprocessor means coupled to said data entry means and said data display means for receiving input commands from a user and for displaying the operational status of said electronic control system to a user; and interface means for interfacing said microprocessor means with said mechanical motion control means, said microprocessor means being adapted to store motion commands received from a user in said memory, said microprocessor being also adapted to provide motion commands to said interface for controlling said mechanical motion control means, said microprocessor being further adapted to perform data processing and other functions to control said mechanical motion controller. 12. Apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein said robot drive system further comprises: means for interfacing said electronic control means to an electronic controller of a similar robot drive system. 13. Apparatus as recited in claim 10 wherein said electronic control means comprises: a general purpose personal computer; and means for interfacing said general purpose personal computer with said mechanical motion control means. 14. Apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein said motion control means further comprises: a small low power precision motor including a rotatable shaft for rotating said shaft in response to the electrical controls received from said electronic control means; and means coupled to said control arm for linearly displacing said control arm in response to the angular rotation of said shaft. 15. Apparatus as recited in claim 14 wherein said means for displacing said control arm comprises a continuous belt coupled to said motor shaft at one end and coupled to an idler bearing at the other end, said control arm being coupled intermediate said ends such that rotation of said shaft causes displacement of said continuous belt which results in linear displacement of said control arm. 16. Apparatus as recited in claim 14 wherein said low power motor comprises a stepper motor with an incremental encoder. 17. Apparatus as recited in claim 11 wherein said linear drive means further comprises: movable carriage means including a linear bearing guide system for traversing said cylinder; steerable wheel means for propelling said linear drive system, said steerable wheel means including an axle assembly and being adapted to rotate about said axle assembly in response to rotation of said cylinder, said axle assembly being rotationally mounted to said movable carriage means such that said axle assembly can rotate within said movable carriage to create an attack angle between the major axes of said cylinder and said axle assembly and the attack angle being zero when the major axes of said cylinder and said axle assembly are parallel in a single plane, said steerable wheel providing a propelling force to said movable carriage when the attack angle is not zero; and tiller means coupled to said steerable wheel means and responsive to displacement of said control arm for rotating said axle assembly and thereby altering the attack angle. 18. Apparatus as recited in claim 17 wherein said steerable wheel means comprises a cylinder having a high coefficient of friction. 19. Apparatus as recited in claim 17 wherein said motion control further: a low power precision motor including a rotatable shaft for rotating said shaft in response to the electrical control signals received from said electronic control means; and means coupled to said control arm linearly displacing said control arm in response to the angular rotation of said shaft. 20. A method for controlling a mechanical amplifier in a manner such that the mechanical amplifier is capable of moving loads of various sizes independent of the quantity of driving power supplied to the amplifier, said method comprising the steps of: (a) monitoring the speed at which the load is being moved by the mechanical amplifier; (b) determining whether the speed at which the load is being moved by the mechanical amplifier is less than a predetermined minimum speed and, if not, returning to step (a), and, if the speed at which the load is moving is less than the predetermined minimum speed performing step (c); and (c) reducing the speed at which the load is moved by the mechanical amplifier and returning to step one. 