A robotic work positioning system includes a programmed, powered robot, and a non-powered arm which is locatable at various positions in three dimensional space by means of the powered robot. A mating interconnection is provided on the non-powered arm whereby the non-powered arm may be accurately engaged and positioned by the powered robot for holding a part or workpiece at an accurately predetermined location. Together with the powered robot, the non-powered arm facilitates the accurate assembly of component parts. One or more non-powered arms can be used to generate three dimensional tooling which can be altered robotically.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic method for assembling two parts by means of a fastening tool, a powered robot arm, and a non-powered robot arm, said method comprising: picking up and positioning a first said part for holding by said non-powered robot arm employing said powered robot arm including engaging said non-powered robot arm with said powered robot arm and positioning the non-powered robot arm in first predetermined work locating position for said first said part relative to said fastening tool, locking said non-powered robot arm in said position, disengaging said powered robot arm from said non-powered robot arm, picking up a second said part with said powered robot arm, positioning said powered robot arm carrying said second said part in a second predetermined work locating position for said second said part relative to said fastening tool, said first and second positions being adjacent one another, and performing a fastening operation on said first and second parts with said tool as said parts are simultaneously held in said first and second positions by said non-powered and powered arms. 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said powered robot arm is employed for initially engaging the first said part and transferring the first said part to said non-powered arm. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the first said part is initially engaged with said non-powered arm by said powered arm before positioning thereof in said first predetermined work locating position by said powered arm. 4. The method according to claim 1 further including unlocking said non-powered arm and moving said non-powered arm carrying an assembly of said parts to a third position by means of said powered arm after said fastening operation. 5. The method according to claim 4 including robotically retrieving said assembly from said non-powered arm and returning said assembly to said fastening tool for further fastening operations. 