A modular robot development kit includes an extensible mobile robot platform and a programmable development module that connects to the mobile robot platform. The mobile robot platform includes a controller that executes robot behaviors concurrently and performs robot actions in accordance with robot control signals received from the development module, as modified by the concurrently running robot behaviors, as a safeguard against performing potentially damaging robot actions. Also, the user can develop software that is executed on the development module and which transmits the robot control signals to the mobile robot platform over the data communication link using a robot interface protocol. The robot interface protocol encapsulates potentially harmful user-developed software routines from the controller instructions executed by the controller of the mobile robot platform, while nonetheless enabling the user to effectively control the mobile robot platform using the robot control signals of the robot interface protocol.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An autonomous robot development platform, comprising: a chassis including: a differential drive including at least first and second differentially driven wheels, and a sensor circuit connected to one or more sensors; an I/O circuit including at least one input and one output; a bed formed in the chassis between the two differentially driven wheels and extending from the top to the bottom of the chassis; a plurality of mounts formed within the walls of the bed for mounting at least one external computing device having a wherein the at least one external computing device includes a processor; a control circuit connected to the differential drive, to the sensor circuit, and to the I/O circuit and including a microprocessor; a communication port provided within the bed and configured to connect the connection interface of the at least one external computing device to the control circuit via the I/O circuit; and a computer memory configured to store robot control instructions executable by the control circuit, the robot control instructions including a command interpreter routine and a serial input handler, wherein the command interpreter routine is configured to cause the control circuit to receive one or more formatted commands and to respond to the one or more formatted commands by initiating the serial input handler, and wherein the serial input handler is configured to cause the control circuit to communicate with the differential drive, the I/O circuit, the sensor circuit, or the communication port. 2. The autonomous robot development platform according to claim 1, wherein the control circuit, the communication port and the computer memory are disposed in a detachable control module configured to detachably connect to the bed. 3. The autonomous robot development platform according to claim 1, wherein the bed further includes: a detachable wall located toward a rear of the chassis, and configured to contain an external computing device installed within the bed. 4. The autonomous robot development platform according to claim 3, wherein the bed includes a plurality of topographies configured to support an external computing device within the bed, the topographies including: a plurality of circular raised bosses arranged at a predetermined pitch, a plurality of elongated raised bosses arranged at a predetermined pitch, a plurality of holes with a uniform diameter and arranged at a predetermined pitch, a plurality of mounts for attaching a table with an alternative surface topography, a plurality of mounts for attaching an external payload to the bed, and a plurality of mounts for attaching external apparatus to the bed. 5. The autonomous robot development platform according to claim further comprising: a motorized drive system including a drive virtualization level; at least one obstacle sensor including a sensor virtualization level; and a command input routine configured to relay data command packets to one or more serial input handlers, the serial input handlers configured to interpret the header arguments of data command packets and responsively do one or both of (i) execute one or more sensor virtualization routines configured to retrieve and format native sensor data into digital logic signals, and/or (ii) execute one or more drive virtualization functions configured to retrieve and format bearing and speed navigation instructions into native motor control signals. 6. An autonomous robot development platform, comprising: a chassis including a bed configured to receive at least one wherein said at least one external computing device includes a processor; a motorized drive system including a differential drive and at least first and second differentially driven wheels; and a control circuit connected to the differential drive, a sensor circuit and an I/O circuit, the control circuit including a microprocessor and a computer memory, the computer memory configured to store robot control instructions executable by the microprocessor, the robot control instructions including: a command interface configured to receive one or more external commands from the at least one external computing device, each external command including a header argument, and to convert the external commands into internal control values, a sensor virtualization level including a plurality of virtual sensor functions corresponding to a sensor and configured to retrieve native sensor data and convert native sensor data into sensor logic levels relative to the native sensor data, and a drive virtualization level including a plurality of virtual drive functions configured to convert the sensor logic levels and the internal control values into a set of native motor controls. 7. The autonomous robot development platform according to claim 6, further comprising: a command input routine configured to relay commands to serial input handlers which are configured to interpret the header arguments of communication data packets and responsively call, sensor virtualization routines that retrieve and format native sensor data into digital logic signals; a set of predefined behaviors, each predefined behavior configured to control the motorized drive system in accordance with a finite state machine including: a sensor routine configured to monitor sensor virtualization function output and the serial input handlers for events, a drive routine configured to actuate one or more virtual drive functions configured to convert bearing and speed navigation instructions into motor control signals, and a response routine configured to respond to an arbiter, allowing the behavior to operate the virtual drive functions, the set of predefined behaviors including an obstacle avoidance behavior configured to monitor an obstacle sensor virtualization function output, to actuate one or more virtual drive functions configured to move the robot substantially away from a detected obstacle, and to provide telemetry information regarding the detection and avoidance of the obstacle. 8. The autonomous robot development platform according to claim wherein the behaviors operate based on a set of modes, wherein each mode corresponds to a state in which the development platform can operate, and wherein each mode is configured to execute in parallel with one or more of the other modes. 9. A modular robot, comprising: a mobile robot platform including a sensor, a drive train, an on-board controller, an expansion bay, and a first data communication port, the on-board controller including a first set of computer software instructions configured to communicate via the first data communication port in accordance with a predetermined robot interface protocol, to receive and process input from the sensor, to operate the mobile robot platform in accordance with one or more robot behaviors, and to operate the mobile robot platform to perform one or more robot actions; and a development module comprising an external computing device and configured to detachably interface with the mobile robot platform and including a programmable processor, a second data communication port configured to interface with the first data communication port, and a computer memory, wherein the development module includes a second set of computer software instructions configured to transmit a first robot control signal to the mobile robot platform in accordance with the robot interface protocol, the first robot control signal corresponding to at least one robot action or robot behavior, wherein the mobile robot platform is configured to perform the robot behavior corresponding to the first robot control signal, wherein the development module includes a third set of computer software instructions configured to transmit a second robot control signal querying the sensor of the mobile robot platform in accordance with the robot interface protocol and to receive sensor data from the mobile robot platform, and wherein the mobile robot platform is configured to transmit sensor data to the development module in accordance with the robot interface protocol. 10. The modular robot according to claim 9, wherein the first and second data ports are configured to communicate in accordance with a serial data communication protocol selected from the group consisting essentially of RS-232, USB, IEEE 1394, or I.sup.2C. 11. The modular robot according to claim 9, wherein the at least one robot behavior is configured to operate the mobile robot platform autonomously of the development module. 12. The modular robot according to claim 9, wherein the mobile robot platform further comprises: first and second differentially driven drive wheels configured to propel the mobile robot platform and disposed at first and second laterally opposed positions on the mobile robot platform across a central longitudinal axis of the mobile robot platform the expansion bay having a lateral position substantially between the first and second wheels. 13. The modular robot according to claim 9, further comprising: an auxiliary component including at, least one of a sensor or an actuator and configured to connect to the mobile robot platform substantially within the expansion bay. 14. The modular robot according to claim 13, wherein the auxiliary component communicates with the development module in accordance with the robot interface protocol. 15. The modular robot according to claim 9, wherein the robot interface protocol comprises: a first set of datagrams each configured to operate the mobile robot platform according to a corresponding robot action; and a second set of datagrams configured to establish communication in accordance with the robot interface protocol. 16. The modular robot according to claim 15, wherein the robot interface protocol further comprises a datagram configured to override at least one of the robot behaviors. 17. The modular robot according to claim 9, wherein the second and third sets of computer software instructions of the development module are generated by a user using a computer programming language and installed to the development module by the user. 18. The modular robot according to claim 9, wherein the robot interface protocol does not include a datagram capable of altering the first set of computer instructions on the mobile robot platform. 19. The modular robot according to claim 9, wherein the robot behaviors include at least one safety behavior configured to prevent the mobile robot platform from performing a robot action that damages the mobile robot platform. 20. The modular robot according to claim 9, wherein the on-board controller of the mobile robot platform is configured to execute a plurality of robot behaviors concurrently, wherein the first set of computer software further includes an arbitration routine configured to select one robot behavior among the concurrently executed robot behaviors based on a priority determination routine, and wherein the on-board controller is further configured to control the mobile robot platform based on the selected robot behavior. 21. The modular robot according to claim 20, wherein the first robot control signal transmitted by the development module is configured to alter the selection of the arbitration routine. 22. The modular robot according to claim 9, further comprising a plurality of parameterized navigational operations having one or more quantitative parameters, wherein the robot interface protocol includes a predetermined specification for transmission of the one or more quantitative parameters corresponding to the parameterized navigational operation. 23. The modular robot according to claim 22, wherein the first robot control signal includes a parameterized navigational operation, and wherein the on-board controller of the mobile robot platform is further configured to process the first robot control signal transmitted by the development module and to control the drive train in accordance with the first robot control signal. 