Pick-up heads and systems are especially useful for picking up, transporting, and placing semiconductor dies at bond sites on packaging substrates. Alternatively, the heads and systems are useful for performing these tasks with any of various other planar objects. An exemplary head includes a shank and a body. The body includes a compliant end portion contactable by the shank, and the end portion includes a face. The shank is movable relative to the end portion such that, whenever the shank is retracted, the face has a substantially planar contour, and whenever the shank is extended, the shank contacts and urges the end portion to provide the face with a convex contour. The end portion desirably defines at least one vacuum orifice connected to an evacuation device (e.g., a vacuum pump) that evacuates the vacuum orifice sufficiently to cause the planar object to adhere to the face.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pick-up head, comprising: a shank having a distal end; a transverse plate coupled to the distal end of the shank, the transverse plate having a distal surface; a body comprising an inner portion made of a rigid material, an outer portion partially surrounding a top surface of the inner portion, and an end portion contactable by the shank, the end portion and the outer portion made of a compliant material with the end portion including a face; the shank having a distal end being movable relative to the end portion such that, whenever the shank having a distal end is in a retracted position, the face has a substantially planar contour with edge ridges to center and orient a die on the face, and whenever the shank having a distal end is in an extended position, the shank having a distal end contacts and urges the end portion to provide the face with a convex contour for releasing the die. 2. The pick-up head of claim 1, wherein the end portion defines at least one vacuum orifice connected to an evacuation device configured to evacuate the vacuum orifice sufficiently to cause a planar object to adhere to the face. 3. The pick-up head of claim 1, wherein: the retracted position is a pick-up position by which a planar object is picked up by adhesion to the face; and the extended position is a placement position by which the picked up planar object is released from the face to a destination site. 4. The pick-up head of claim 3, wherein: the planar object is a semiconductor die; the destination site is a bond site on a substrate; and in the extended position the convex contour of the face facilitates bonding of the die to the bond site. 5. A die pick-up head, comprising: a stem comprising an outer shank and an inner shank having a distal end situated relative to the outer shank so as to be slidably movable relative to the outer shank between an extended position and a retracted position; a transverse plate coupled to the distal end of the inner shank, the transverse plate having a distal surface; a body comprising an inner portion made of a rigid material, an outer portion partially surrounding a top surface of the inner portion, and an end portion, the end portion and the outer portion made of a compliant material with the end portion including a face extending transversely to the stem and an inner surface contactable by the inner shank, the face having edge ridges to center and orient a die on the face; and wherein, whenever the inner shank is in the retracted position, the end portion assumes a posture by which the face has a substantially planar contour for picking up a die, and whenever the inner shank is in the extended position, the inner shank contacts the inner surface of the end portion and urges the end portion to assume a posture by which the face has a convex contour for releasing the die. 6. The pick-up head of claim 5, wherein the face defines at least one orifice connected to a vacuum pump that evacuates the orifice sufficiently to cause the die to adhere to the face at least during a time in which the inner shank is in the retracted position. 7. The pick-up head of claim 5, wherein the face is configured to hold the die at least during a time in which the inner shank is in the retracted position. 8. The pick-up head of claim 5, wherein: the inner shank comprises a distal end; and the distal end contacts the inner surface of the end portion whenever the inner shank is in the retracted position and whenever the inner shank is in the extended position. 9. The pick-up head of claim 5, wherein the face defines at least one vacuum channel. 10. A pick-up system, comprising: a pick-up head comprising a shank; a transverse plate coupled to the distal end of the shank, the transverse plate having a distal surface; a body comprising an inner portion made of a rigid material, an outer portion partially surrounding a top surface of the inner portion, and an end portion that is contactable by the shank, the end portion and the outer portion made of a compliant material with the end portion including a face with edge ridges to center and orient a' die on the face and the shank being movable relative to the end portion such that, whenever the shank is in a retracted position, the face has a substantially planar contour, and whenever the shank is in an extended position, the face has a convex contour for releasing the die; and a robot to which the pick-up head is mounted, the robot being configured to move the pick-up head back and forth between a first location and a second location. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein: the retracted position is a pick-up position by which a planar object is picked up at the first location by adhesion of the object to the face; and the extended position is a placement position by which the picked up planar object is released from the face to a destination site at the second location. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein: the planar object is a semiconductor die; the destination site is a bond site on a substrate located at the second location; and in the extended position the convex contour of the face facilitates bonding of the die to the bond site. 13. A die pick-up and bonding system, comprising: a die pick-up head, comprising a stem and a body, the stem comprising an outer shank and an inner shank that is slidably movable relative to the outer shank between an extended position and a retracted position; a transverse plate coupled to the distal end of the inner shank, the transverse plate having a distal surface; the body comprising an inner portion made of a rigid material, an outer portion partially surrounding a top surface of the inner portion, and an end portion, the end portion and the outer portion made of a compliant material with the end portion including a face extending transversely to the stem with edge ridges to center and orient a die on the face and an inner surface contactable by the inner shank, such that, whenever the inner shank is in the retracted position, the end portion assumes a posture by which the face has a substantially planar contour for picking up a die, and whenever the inner shank is in the extended position, the inner shank contacts the inner surface of the end portion and urges the end portion to assume a posture by which the face has a convex contour for releasing the die; and a robot to which the pick-up head is mounted, the robot being configured to move the pick-up head back and forth between a die pick-up location and a die-bonding location. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein: the face has a substantially planar contour whenever the robot has positioned the pick-up head at the die pick-up location and the head is picking up the die at the die pick-up location; the face has a substantially planar contour whenever the robot is moving the pick-up head, carrying a die, from the die pick-up location to the die-bonding location; and the face has a convex contour whenever the robot has moved the pick-up head to the die-bonding location and is placing the die at a bonding site on a substrate positioned at the die-bonding location. 15. The system of claim 13, further comprising a vacuum system connected to the face so as to cause the die to adhere to the face. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein: the inner shank comprises a distal end; and the distal end of the inner shank contacts the inner surface of the end portion whenever the inner shank is in the retracted position and whenever the inner shank is in the extended position. 