A system includes a subsea well and a carousel of tools. The carousel of tools is adapted to automatically and selectively deploy the tools in the well to perform an intervention in the well. The flow of fluid in a well is halted, and a tool is deployed from within the well while the fluid is halted. The tool is allowed to free fall while the fluid is halted. The flow is resumed to retrieve the tool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: halting the flow of a well fluid being produced from a well; deploying a tool from within the well while the flow is halted; allowing the tool to free fall in the well while the flow is halted; measuring the pressure of the well around the tool as the tool free falls; determining the depth of the tool based on the measured well pressure; comparing the tool depth to a predetermined well depth; measuring a property of the well at the predetermined tool depth; and resuming the flow to retrieve the tool. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: introducing a delay to allow the tool to reach a given depth. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using the tool to perform a test in the well. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using the tool to take a corrective action in the well. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: triggering the halting in response to a periodic timer. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: triggering the halting in response to a command. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: triggering the halting in response to a previous measurement indicating intervention is needed in the well. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the flow of fluid comprises well fluid being produced by the well. 9. A method comprising: halting the flow of a well fluid being produced from a well; deploying a tool from within the well while the flow is halted; allowing the tool to free fall in the well while the flow is halted; measuring the pressure of the well around the tool as the tool free falls; determining the depth of the tool based on the measured well pressure; comparing the tool depth to a predetermined well depth; using the tool to measure a property of the well at the predetermined depth; measuring a second pressure of the well around the tool as the tool continues to free fall; determining the depth of the tool based on the second measured well pressure; comparing the tool depth to a second predetermined well depth; using the tool to measure a second property of the well at the second predetermined depth; and resuming the flow to retrieve the tool. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: introducing a delay to allow the tool to reach a given depth. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: using the tool to perform a test in the well. 12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: using the tool to take a corrective action in the well. 13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: triggering the halting in response to a periodic timer. 14. The method of claim 9, further comprising: triggering the halting in response to a command. 15. The method of claim 9, further comprising: triggering the halting in response to a previous measurement indicating intervention is needed in the well. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein the flow of fluid comprises well fluid being produced by the well. 