In a first exemplary embodiment of the present invention, an automated, computerized method is provided for processing an image. According to a feature of the present invention, the method comprises the step of performing a filter response technique to identify patches of uniform reflectance within the image. In a further exemplary embodiment, the method comprises the additional step of utilizing the identified patches of uniform material reflectance to generate single material token regions for use in processing material and illumination aspects of the image.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: performing a filter response technique to identify patches of uniform material reflectance within the image; utilizing the identified patches of uniform material reflectance to generate single material token regions, and listing the single material token regions to process material and illumination aspects of the image. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of performing a filter response technique to identify patches of uniform reflectance within the image is carried out by performing a second derivative filter response technique. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the second derivative filter response technique comprises an LoG filter mask. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of performing a filter response technique to identify patches of uniform reflectance within the image is carried out by applying a filter mask to pixels of the image, and identifying patches of pixels having a predetermined filter response value. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein each patch comprises a preselected shape and size. 6. The method of claim 4 including the further step of merging overlapping patches of pixels having a predetermined filter response value. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the filter response technique includes variable parameters. 8. The method of claim 7 including the further steps of selecting sets of values for the variable parameters, and repeating the step of performing a filter response technique to identify patches of uniform reflectance within the image, once per each one of the sets of values for the variable parameters. 9. The method of claim 8 including the further step of merging results from the step of repeating the step of performing a filter response technique to identify patches of uniform reflectance within the image. 10. The method of claim 1 including the further steps of identifying spatio-spectral information for the image, and utilizing the spatio-spectral information to identify single material token regions in the image. 11. The method of claim 10 including the further step of merging tokens identified by the step of utilizing the identified patches of uniform material reflectance to generate single material token regions, and single material token regions identified by the step of identifying spatio-spectral information for the image. 12. A computer system which comprises: a CPU; and a memory storing an image file; the CPU arranged and configured to execute a routine to perform a filter response technique to identify patches of uniform reflectance within an image depicted in the image file, utilize the identified patches of uniform material reflectance to generate single material token regions and list the single material token regions to process material and illumination aspects of the image. 13. A computer program product, disposed on a non-transitory computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: access an image file, perform a filter response technique to identify patches of uniform reflectance within an image depicted in the image file, utilize the identified patches of uniform material reflectance to generate single material token regions and list the single material token regions to process material and illumination aspects of the image. 