Stiffener tool positioning apparatus and methods are provided. In one embodiment, the apparatus includes a base, a first flipper member and second flipper member. The first flipper member is slide-ably attached to the base. The first flipper member is also configured to selectively attach a first mandrel thereon and to rotate the first mandrel. The second flipper member is also slide-ably attached to the base. The first and second flipper members are slide-ably positioned select distances from each other on the base in embodiments. The second mandrel is further configured to attach a second mandrel thereon and to rotate the second mandrel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming an elongated composite member, the method comprising: coupling a first mandrel to a first flipper of a stiffener tool positioning apparatus; coupling a second mandrel to a second flipper of the stiffening tool positioning apparatus; forming at least one ply of fibers on the first mandrel; forming at least one ply of fibers on the second mandrel; rotating the first and the second flipper so that select surfaces of the first and second mandrels are aligned with each other; compressing the at least one ply of fibers on the select surface of the first mandrel with the at least one ply of fibers on the select surface of the second mandrel with the first and second flippers to mate the plies of fibers; and removing the first and second mandrels from the first and second flippers; rotating the first and second mandrels 180 degrees; attaching the first mandrel to the second flipper; attaching the second mandrel to the first flipper; and applying at least one ply of fibers overlaying a second side of the mated plies of fiber. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein compressing the at least one ply of fibers on the first mandrel with the at least one ply of fibers on the second mandrel with the first and second flippers further comprises: inflating at least one bladder in each of the first and the second flippers to provide a desired amount of pressure on the plies of fiber on the first and second mandrels. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying at least one ply of fibers overlaying a first side of the mated plies of fibers. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: applying a noodle to a radius formed where the plies of fibers meet, the noodle is applied before the at least one ply of fibers is applied overlaying the first side of the mated plies of fibers. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying a noodle to a radius formed where the plies of fibers meet, the noodle is applied before the at least one ply of fibers is applied overlaying the second side of the mated plies of fibers. 6. A method of forming an elongated composite member, the method comprising: pressing and forming at least one ply of fibers on a forming surface of a first mandrel that is coupled to a first flipper member with a plurality of rollers that are passed sequentially along a length of the first mandrel; pressing and forming at least one ply of fibers on a forming surface of a second mandrel that is coupled to a second flipper member with a plurality of rollers that are passed sequentially along a length of the second mandrel; rotating the first and the second flipper members so that select surfaces of the first and second mandrels are aligned with each other; and compressing the at least one ply of fibers on the select surface of the first mandrel with the at least one ply of fibers on the select surface of the second mandrel with the first and second flippers to mate the plies of fibers. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein compressing the at least one ply of fibers on the first mandrel with the at least one ply of fibers on the second mandrel with the first and second flippers further comprises: inflating at least one bladder in each of the first and the second flippers to provide a desired amount of pressure on the plies of fiber on the first and second mandrels. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: pressing and forming at least one ply of fibers on a first side of the mated plies of fibers formed on the first and second mandrels with at least one roller of the plurality of rollers that are passed along a length of the first and second mandrels. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: applying a noodle to a radius formed where the plies of fibers meet, the noodle is applied before the at least one ply of fibers is applied overlaying the first side of the mated plies of fibers. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: removing the first and second mandrels from the first and second flippers; rotating the first and second mandrels 180 degrees; attaching the first mandrel to the second flipper; attaching the second mandrel to the first flipper; and pressing and forming at least one ply of fibers overlaying a second side of the mated plies of fiber with at least one roller of the plurality of rollers that are passed sequentially along a length of the first and second mandrels. 11. A method of forming an elongated composite structure comprising: pressing and forming at least one ply of fibers on a forming surface of a first mandrel that is coupled to a first flipper member; pressing and forming at least one ply of fibers on a forming surface of a second mandrel that is coupled to a second flipper member; rotating the first and the second flipper members so that select surfaces of the first and second mandrels are aligned with each other; moving the first and second flippers towards each other to compress the at least one ply of fibers on the select surface of the first mandrel with the at least one ply of fibers on the select surface of the second mandrel with the first and second flippers to mate the plies of fibers; pressing and forming at least one ply of fibers on a first side of the mated plies of fibers formed on the first and second mandrels; exchanging the first mandrel on the first flipper member with the second mandrel on the second flipper member such that the first mandrel is coupled to the second flipper and the second mandrels coupled to the first flipper; and pressing and forming at least one ply of fibers overlaying a second side of the mated plies of fiber. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein pressing and forming the at least one ply of fibers on the forming surface of the first mandrel that is coupled to the first flipper member further comprises: sequentially passing a plurality of rollers along a length of the first mandrel. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein pressing and forming the at least one ply of fibers on a forming surface of the second mandrel that is coupled to the second flipper member further comprises: sequentially passing a plurality of rollers along a length of the first mandrel. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: applying noodles to radiuses formed where the plies of fibers meet on the first and second sides of the of the mated plies of fibers formed on the first and second mandrels, the noodles being applied before the respective at least one ply of fibers is applied overlaying the first and second side of the mated plies of fibers. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: inflating at least one bladder in each of the first and the second flippers to provide a desired amount of pressure on the plies of fiber on the first and second mandrels. 