In a multi-jointed robot, position controllers are located at each of the joints of the robot and are interconnected by a unitary bus. The bus carries a loosely-regulated voltage to all of the controllers and also includes data conductors connected to the controllers for disseminating position commands which are time-division multiplexed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a multi-joint robot having at least two joints dispersed away from a central location, apparatus for controlling the motion of the robotic arm comprising: kinematics processor means disposed in the central location for providing joint-positioning demand signal frames; joint driving means, each disposed for positioning a proximal joint; distributed joint-control processing means, each disposed proximal to a joint for controlling at least one associated joint driving means, and each operative to produce a command signal; wherein the associated joint driving means responds to the command signal to position the proximal joint; and bus means extending from the central location and throughout said robotic arm for interconnecting in parallel the kinematics processor means and the joint-control processing means and for transmitting the demand signal frames to the joint-control processing means; wherein each joint-control processing means responds to one of the demand signal frames, to produce the command signal. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising electrical power supply means for providing power; and said bus means delivers power to the joint driving means and the joint-control processing means. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the bus means comprises two power conductors and at least one data conductor. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the kinematics processor means transmits the joint-positioning demand signal frames as time-division multiplexed signals to said joint-control processing means on the data conductor of the bus means. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein each of said joint-control processing means operates linearly to interpolate position information from said kinematics processor means. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said bus means comprises a predetermined number of conductors which is independent of the total number of joint-control processing means. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said joint-control processing means operates linearly to interpolate position information from said kinematics processor means. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further including means to time-division multiplex the joint-positioning demand signal frames on the bus means. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said bus means comprises a predetermined number of conductors which is independent of the total number of joints. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said bus means comprises a predetermined number of conductors which is independent of the total number of joint driving means. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said bus means is bi-directional and said kinematics processor means is operative to receive information produced by the joint-control processing means and transmitted by the bus means. 12. An apparatus as in claim 1 being so constructed and arranged that each demand signal frame is associated with a corresponding one of the joint-control processing means. 13. The apparatus as recited in claim 12 being so constructed and arranged that the demand signal frames are transmitted as a stream of data, each demand signal frame has a slot in the stream, and each slot is associated with a corresponding one of the joint-control processing means so that the demand signal frame in that slot is received by the corresponding one of the joint-control processing means for producing the command signal. 14. The apparatus of claim 12 being so constructed and arranged that each of the joint-control processing means is designated with an address, each demand signal frame includes address data, and the one of the joint-control processing means designated with the address contained in the address data responds to the demand signal frame for producing the command signal. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein each of the joint-control processing means includes a microprocessor. 16. A method of controlling a robotic arm having at least two joints using a circuit interconnection architecture of reduced complexity, comprising the steps of: locating a kinematics processor at a central area; operating the kinematics processor to produce a joint-positioning demand signal; providing joint driving means and disposing each for positioning a proximal joint; providing joint-control processing means and disposing each proximal to one of the joints for controlling at least one associated joint driving means; operating the joint-control processing means to respond to the demand signal for producing a command signal; operating the associated joint driving means to respond to the command signal for positioning the proximal joint; providing a singular bus structure throughout the robotic arm for transmitting the joint-positioning demand signal between the kinematics processor and the joint-control processing means. 17. The method as recited in claim 16 further including the steps of: providing data frames in the joint-positioning demand signal; associating each data frame with a corresponding one of the joint-control processing means so that the kinematic processor means is operative to communicate individually with each of the joint-control processing means. 18. The method as recited in claim 17 further including the steps of: associating an address code to each of the joint-control processing means; inserting in each data frame the address code of the associated joint-control processing means to be activated by the kinematics processor; and operating each one of the joint-control processing means so that it responds to the data frame having the address code of that one joint-control processing means for controlling the associated joint driving means. 19. The method of claim 16 further comprising the steps of coupling an electrical power supply means to the bus means; and transmitting power from the power supply means via the bus means to joint driving means and the joint-control processing means. 20. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of providing in the bus means a predetermined number of conductors which is independent of the total number of joints. 