A device for simultaneously dispensing a solution containing a sample to a test device and aspirating the sample from the device. In one embodiment the device is hand-held and includes a control mechanism, e.g., button for activating the dispensing and aspiration of the sample. The testing device may take the form of a multi-well plate with a plurality of wells arranged in rows and columns, with the bottom of the wells formed as a photonic crystal biosensor. The device can be configured with dispense and aspirate manifolds and associated dispense and aspirate ports which are positioned in all the wells along a row or column of wells so as to simultaneously aspirate and dispense solution to all the wells in a row or column of the multi-well plate.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for simultaneously dispensing and aspirating a sample to a testing device having a well, comprising: a) a body having a portion thereof adapted for engagement with the testing device; b) dispense tubing coupled to the body for receiving a sample from a source; c) aspirate tubing coupled to the body connected to a source of vacuum; d) a dispense manifold connected to the dispense tubing having at least one dispensing port; e) an aspirate manifold connected to the aspirate tubing having at least one aspirating port wherein the dispensing port and the aspirating port are configured in close proximity to each other whereby the aspirating port and dispensing port are positioned in or proximate to the well of the testing device when the body is positioned proximate to the testing device; and f) a control mechanism for controlling movement of the sample from the dispense tubing to the dispense port and for simultaneously controlling application of vacuum in the aspirate tubing to the aspirating port to thereby permit simultaneous dispensing a sample to the well and aspirating the sample from the well. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein testing device comprises a multi-well testing device arranged in one or more rows of a plurality of wells, and wherein the dispense and aspirate manifolds include a dispensing and aspirating port for each well in the row of wells in the multi-well test device. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the body is sized and shaped so as to be held in a human hand and wherein the control mechanism includes a manually-activated control device incorporated into the body. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the control device activates a valve coupling the dispense tubing to the dispensing manifold and a valve coupling the aspirate tubing to the aspirate manifold. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the device further comprises an auxiliary injection port for receiving a second sample for introduction to the testing device. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the testing device includes a plurality of wells for receiving the sample and wherein the wells have a bottom surface for receiving the sample constructed as a grating-based biosensor. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the body further comprises a lower surface for engaging a top surface of the testing device, and wherein the testing device further comprises a plurality of wells, and wherein the dispensing and aspirating ports further comprise tips thereof which extend into wells formed in the top surface of the testing device when the lower surface of the body is engaged with the top surface of the testing device. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the control mechanism is manually operated. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the control mechanism is automatically operated. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the device comprises at least eight aspirating ports and at least eight dispensing ports. 11. The device of claim 10, wherein the aspirating and dispensing ports are spatially arranged in at least eight pairs of aspirating and dispensing ports. 12. The device of claim 1, further comprising a variable flow pump for directing sample to the testing device via the dispense tubing. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein the device further comprises at least one sensor for measurement of a sample delivered by the device to the testing device. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the sensor is selected from the group of sensors consisting of a) a temperature sensor, b) a pH sensor, and c) an ionic strength sensor. 15. The device of claim 13, wherein the at least one sensor is mounted adjacent to at least one of the aspirating port or the dispensing port. 16. The device of claim 13, further comprising a processing unit controlling delivery of the sample to the testing device using a feedback loop incorporating sensor data reported by the at least one sensor. 17. The device of claim 1, wherein the device further comprises a temperature controller controlling the temperature of the sample delivered to the testing device. 18. The device of claim 1, wherein the aspirate and dispense manifolds comprise elongate tubular channels having a length L, wherein the testing device comprises an array of wells arranged in rows and columns, and wherein at least one of the rows and columns of wells is of a linear dimension M, where L .gtoreq.M, and wherein there is one aspirating port and one dispensing port in a spaced relation along the length of the aspirate and dispense manifolds for each well in the rows or columns of wells of length M. 19. The device of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises a buffer. 20. Apparatus for simultaneously dispensing and aspirating a sample to a testing device having a well, comprising: a dispensing and aspirating device having a dispensing port in fluid connection with a source of a sample and an aspirating port; wherein the dispensing port and the aspirating port are configured in close proximity to each other whereby the aspirating port and dispensing port are positioned in or proximate to the well of the testing device when the dispensing and aspirating device body is positioned proximate to the testing device; and a control mechanism controlling movement of the sample through the dispensing and aspirating device enabling the sample to be simultaneously dispensed into the well via the dispense port and simultaneously aspirated the sample from the well via the aspirating port. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the testing device comprises a multi-well plate and a plurality of wells arranged in rows and columns, and wherein the dispensing and aspirating device comprises a plurality of pairs of aspirating ports and dispensing ports adapted and spaced from each other so that a sample can be simultaneously aspirated and dispensed into each well in a row or column of wells in the multi-well plate. 22. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the sample comprises a buffer. 23. The apparatus of claim 20, where in the dispensing and aspirating device includes body sized and shaped so as to be held in a human hand and wherein the control mechanism includes a manually-activated control device incorporated into the body. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the body further comprises a lower surface for engaging a top surface of the testing device, and wherein the dispensing and aspirating ports further comprise tips thereof which extend into the well when the lower surface of the body is engaged with the top surface of the testing device. 25. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the dispensing and aspirating device further comprises an auxiliary injection port proximate to the dispensing port and the aspirating port for introduction of a second sample into the well of the testing device. 26. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the testing device includes a plurality of wells for receiving the sample and wherein the wells have a bottom surface for receiving the sample constructed as a grating-based biosensor. 27. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the control mechanism is manually operated. 28. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the control mechanism is automatically operated. 29. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the aspirating and dispensing device comprises at least eight aspirating ports and at least eight dispensing ports, spatially arranged in at least eight pairs of aspirating and dispensing ports. 30. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the aspirating and dispensing device further comprises at least one sensor for measurement of the sample. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the sensor is selected from the group of sensors consisting of a) a temperature sensor, b) a pH sensor, and c) an ionic strength sensor. 32. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein the at least one sensor is mounted adjacent to at least one of the aspirating port or the dispensing port. 33. The apparatus of claim 30, further comprising a processing unit controlling delivery of the sample to the testing device using a feedback loop incorporating sensor data reported by the at least one sensor. 34. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the aspirating and dispensing device further comprises a temperature controller controlling the temperature of the sample delivered to the testing device. 