An end effector for use with robotic arms and like devices that utilizes a flexible band to draw an object against an anvil having a concave surface. One typical convex surface is created by a V-block, with an apex of the V being centrally located. If an object to be grasped is fragile, the contour of the concave surface closely matches the surface of the object. Typically the movement of the band is effected by a linear actuator, with the anvil remaining fixed relative to a support base. Several embodiments are described that utilize variations in drawing the band toward the anvil, with one of these embodiments described in detail in the form of a fabricated unit. One embodiment includes a cover element that can be moved over an object after the grasping thereof, with this cover potentially serving various functions. Movement of the cover can be effected with a second linear actuator.
Claims We claim: 1. A gripper for use in grasping an object, said gripper comprising: an anvil member, said anvil member being provided with a concave surface to contact a surface of said object; a band member for movement relative to said anvil member, said band member having opposite end portions and a bight portion for encircling and engaging said object, said band member further having a thickness sufficiently thin so as to be substantially flexible and a sufficient width transverse to said thickness to substantially prevent droop of said bight portion when extended from said anvil member, said opposite end portions of said band member passing over at least one pulley member; and actuator means engaged with said pulley member for moving said opposite end portions of said band member relative to said anvil member and therefore moving said bight portion of said band member relative to said concave surface to selectively engage and disengage said object between said bight portion of said band member and said concave surface of said anvil member. 2. The gripper of claim 1 wherein said concave surface has a surface contour substantially matching a surface contour of at least a portion of said object. 3. The gripper of claim 1 wherein said concave surface has a V-shaped contour. 4. The gripper of claim 3 wherein said V-shaped contour has an apex equidistanced from opposite edges of said anvil member. 5. The gripper of claim 1 wherein both of said opposite end portions of said band member pass over a single pulley member, and said actuator means rotates said pulley member relative to said anvil member to selectively move said bight portion toward and away from said concave surface. 6. The gripper of claim 1 wherein both of said opposite end portions of said band member pass over individual pulley members and attach to said anvil member, and wherein said actuator means moves said pulley members linearly with respect to said anvil member to selectively move said bight portion toward and away from said concave surface. 7. The gripper of claim 1 further comprising: a cover member to enclose said bight portion of said band member and said anvil member; and actuator means connected to said cover member for selectively moving said cover member over said bight portion and said anvil member, and for selectively retracting said cover member from said bight portion. 8. A gripper for attachment to a robotic arm to selectively grasp an object, said gripper comprising: a base member; an anvil member attached to said base member, said anvil member being provided with a concave surface configured to effectively contact a surface of said object; a band member for movement relative to said anvil member, said band member having opposite end portions and a bight portion for encircling said object, said opposite end portions attached to said anvil member, said band member further having a thickness sufficiently thin so as to be substantially flexible and a width transverse to said thickness to substantially prevent droop of said bight portion when extended from said anvil member; a housing member mounted on said base member, said housing member containing a pair of rotatably mounted pulley members, each of said pulley members receiving said band member proximate one of said opposite end portions of said band member; and linear actuator means engaged with said housing member for moving said housing member relative to said anvil member and thereby moving said bight portion relative to said concave surface to engage and disengage said band member and said concave surface relative to said object. 9. The gripper of claim 8 wherein said concave surface has a surface contour substantially matching a surface contour of at least a portion of said object. 10. The gripper of claim 8 wherein said concave surface has a V-shaped contour having an apex equidistanced from opposite edges of said anvil member. 11. The of claim 8 further comprising: a cover member to enclose said bight portion of said band member and said anvil member; and actuator means connected to said cover member for selectively moving said cover member over said bight portion and said anvil member, and for selectively retracting said cover member from said bight portion. 12. The gripper of claim 8 further comprising attachment means for attachment to said robotic arm. 13. A gripper for attachment to a robotic arm to selectively grasp an object, said gripper comprising: a base member; an anvil member attached to said base member, said anvil member being provided with a V-shaped concave surface configured to effectively contact a surface of said object, said V-shaped concave surface having an apex equidistanced from opposite edges of said anvil member; a band member for movement relative to said anvil member, said band member having opposite end portions and a bight portion for encircling said object, said opposite end portions attached to said anvil member, said band member further having a thickness sufficiently thin so as to be substantially flexible and a sufficient width transverse to said thickness to substantially prevent droop of said bight portion when extended from said anvil member; a housing member mounted on said base member, said housing member containing a pair of rotatably mounted pulley members, each of said pulley members receiving said band member proximate one of said opposite end portions of said band member; linear actuator means engaged with said housing member for selectively moving said housing member relative to said anvil member and thereby moving said bight portion relative to said concave surface to engage and disengage said band member and said concave surface relative to said object; and attachment means for attaching to said robotic arm. 14. The gripper of claim 13 further comprising: a cover member to enclose said bight portion of said band member and said anvil member; and actuator means connected to said cover member for selectively moving said cover member over said bight portion and said anvil member, and for selectively retracting said cover member from said bight portion. 15. The end effector of claim 14 further comprising means for introducing a gas into said cover member. 16. The gripper of claim 13 wherein said band member is fabricated from a low thermal conductivity material and thereby minimizes heat transfer with respect to said object. 17. The gripper of claim 13 wherein said band member and said anvil member are fabricated from a low thermal conductivity material and thereby minimize heat transfer with respect to said object. 18. A gripper for use in grasping an object, said gripper comprising: an anvil member, said anvil member being provided with a concave surface to contact a surface of said object; a band member for movement relative to said anvil member, said band member having opposite end portions and a bight portion for encircling said object, said band member further having a thickness sufficiently thin so as to be substantially flexible and a sufficient width transverse to said thickness to substantially prevent droop of said bight portion when extended from said anvil member; actuator means engaged with said band member for moving said bight portion relative to said concave surface to selectively engage and disengage said band member and said concave surface relative to said object; a cover member to enclose said bight portion of said band member and said anvil member; and a further actuator means connected to said cover member for selectively moving said cover member over said bight portion and said anvil member, and for selectively retracting said cover member from said bight portion and said anvil member. 19. The gripper of claim 18 wherein said anvil member is attached to a base member, and further comprises a housing member mounted on said base member, said housing member containing a pair of rotatably mounted pulley members, each of said pulley members receiving said band member proximate one of said opposite end portions of said band member; and wherein said actuator means is a linear actuator engaged with said housing member for moving said housing member relative to said anvil member and thereby moving said bight portion of said band member relative to said concave surface to engage and disengage said band member and said concave surface relative to said object. 