The invention is a method of reclaiming sand used in a method of casting a metal having a liquidus temperature below 2000.degree. F., the casting method using a vaporizable pattern set within a mold constituted of unbonded sand. The method comprises: (a) blowing, after a predetermined lapse of time after the pouring of the metal into the mold, a combustion supporting gas into and through substantially the entire volume of the mold to levitate at least a region of the sand adjacent to the casting and to combust volatilized byproducts of the pattern entering the mold, and (b) continuing the blowing of the combustion supporting gas to continue combustion and driving of the gas and byproducts of the combustion out of the mold.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of reclaiming sand used in casting a metal having a liquidus temperature below 2000.degree. F., the casting method using a vaporizable pattern set within a mold constituted of unbonded sand, comprising: (a) blowing, after a lapse of time of about 5-10 minutes after the pouring of molten metal into said mold to form a casting, a combustion supporting gas into and through said mold to fluidize at least the region of said sand adjacent to the casting in which the temperature ranges from 1400.degree.-800.degree. F. and thereby to utilize the radiant heat of said molten metal to combust volatilized byproducts of said pattern in said region of sand about the casting; and (b) continuing the blowing of said combustion supporting gas to continue combustion, additional volatilization of byproducts, and driving of said gas and products of combustion out of said mold. 2. The method of claim 1, in which said metal is aluminum or an aluminum based metal. 3. The method of claim 1, in which said blowing in step (b) is started immediately after a solidified skin is formed on said molten metal casting. 4. The method as in claim 3, in which some portion of said casting remains unsolidified and in place in said mold throughout steps (a) and (b). 5. The method of claim 1, in which said blowing of a combustion supporting gas is carried out into and through substantially the entire volume of said mold and with sufficient force to fluidize all of the mold sand during the blowing. 6. The method of claim 1, in which said blowing is carried out at a gas pressure of 5-20 psi when said mold sand is fine grained, and 20-45 psi when said sand particles are coarse grained. 7. The method of claim 1, in which said combustion supporting gas is preheated prior to blowing into said mold in step (a). 