A method for butt welding metallic sheets along a relatively long common seam line by providing a plurality of laser welding devices aligned above the common seam line, and effectively spaced from one another along a longitudinal axis. In a preferred embodiment, each welding device is independently adjustable in a direction parallel to a transverse axis which is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. The metallic sheets are aligned on the upper surface in abutting relationship along the seam line and clamped for welding. Each laser welds only a portion of the sheets along the seam line, and the length of the relative movement between the welding devices and the sheets is greater than the effective spacing distance between welding devices to insure that a continuous weld bead is provided along the common seam line.
Claims I claim: 1. An improved high production laser welding apparatus for butt welding a plurality of metallic sheets along a relatively long common seam line, said apparatus comprising: a welding table having an upper surface on which a plurality of metallic sheets may be supported for welding along a common seam line, a longitudinal axis along which said common seam line will be aligned, a transverse axis substantially perpendicular to said longitudinal axis, and a pair of transversely spaced side edges; a plurality of substantially identical laser welding devices mounted above said upper surface and aligned such that their welding beams will be directed along said common seam line, said welding devices each being effectively spaced at a distance from one another along said longitudinal axis, and means for independently adjusting a plurality of said welding beams in a direction parallel to said transverse axis to track said common seam line; means for loading sheets to be butt welded onto said upper surface, said loading means providing a first sheet generally along said transverse axis from one side edge of the table, and a second sheet generally along said transverse axis and from the other side edge; means for aligning said metallic sheets on said upper surface in abutting relationship along said common seam line, said aligning means comprising means for relatively moving said sheets inwardly along said transverse axis into close alignment along said common seam line; means for simultaneously moving said welding devices relative to said common seam line along said longitudinal axis, and means for simultaneously operating said welding devices to weld said aligned sheets together, whereby each laser welds only a portion of said sheets along said common seam line and the length of said relative movement is greater than said spacing distance between adjacent welding devices to insure some overlap of welding along said common seam line; and an unloading device for removal of a welded sheet from said welding table while additional sheets to be butt welded are simultaneously provided to said welding table. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said common seam line has a predetermined length, and said welding devices are spaced substantially equidistant from one another above said upper surface along said length. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for simultaneously moving said welding devices relative to said seam line comprises a movable portion of said upper surface of said table, said movable portion supporting said sheets and movable in a direction parallel to said longitudinal axis. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said aligning means comprises selectively retractable stops which can be moved to operable position to preliminarily align said sheets, and moved to retracted position prior to welding operations. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a bridge located above said upper surface and supporting said laser devices, said bridge extending in a direction substantially parallel to said longitudinal axis. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said unloading device comprises a clamping apparatus attached to said bridge and movable in a direction parallel to said longitudinal axis. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising retractable stops attached to said bridge and extending downwardly therefrom in aligning operations to preliminarily align said sheets along said longitudinal axis. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for aligning said sheets in abutting relationship comprises a magnetic alignment device. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for aligning said sheets comprises a plurality of offset feed rollers mounted adjacent said upper surface to direct said sheets into abutting relationship along said common seam line. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for loading sheets to be butt welded comprises a pair of robots, one of said robots placing sheets on said upper surface from said transverse side edge of said table, and the other placing sheets from the other of said transverse side edges, whereby said sheets approach each other in a direction generally parallel to said transverse axis. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said laser welding devices is connected to an automatic alignment vision system for individually controlling and adjusting the transverse position of its welding beam to precisely align with said seam line. 12. An improved high production laser welding apparatus for butt welding a plurality of metallic sheets along a relatively long common seam line, said apparatus comprising: a welding table having a reciprocable upper surface on which a plurality of metallic sheets may be supported for welding along a common seam line, a longitudinal axis along which said common seam line will be aligned, a transverse axis substantially perpendicular to said longitudinal axis, and a pair of transversely spaced side edges; a bridge located above said upper surface and supporting said laser devices, said bridge extending in a direction substantially parallel to said longitudinal axis; a plurality of substantially identical laser welding devices mounted on said bridge and aligned such that their welding beams will be directed along said common seam line, said welding devices each being effectively spaced at a distance from one another along said longitudinal axis, and each welding device beam being independently adjustable in a direction parallel to said transverse axis to track said common seam line; means for loading sheet to be butt welded onto said upper surface, said loading means providing a first sheet generally along said transverse axis from one side edge of the table, and a second sheet generally along said transverse axis and from the other side edge; means for aligning said metallic sheets on said upper surface in abutting relationship along a common seam line, said aligning means comprising means for relatively moving said sheets inwardly along said transverse axis into close alignment along said common seam line and at least one retractable alignment stop therebetween; magnetic means for clamping said sheets in said abutted relationship along said common seam line; means for simultaneously moving said welding devices relative to said common seam line along said longitudinal axis, and means for simultaneously operating all of said welding devices to weld said sheets together, whereby each laser welds only a portion of said common seam line between said sheets, and the length of said relative movement is greater than said spacing distance between adjacent welding devices to insure some overlap of welding along said common seam line and an unloading device for removal of a welded sheet from said welding table while additional sheets to be butt welded are simultaneously provided to said welding table. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said means for aligning said sheets in abutting relationship comprises a magnetic alignment device. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said common seam line has a predetermined length, and said welding devices are substantially equally spaced above said upper surface along said length. 15. An improved high production method for butt welding a plurality of metallic sheets along a long common seam line between said sheets, said method comprising the following steps: providing a welding table having an upper surface on which a plurality of metallic sheets may be supported for welding along a common seam line, a longitudinal axis along which said common seam line will be aligned, a transverse axis substantially perpendicular to said longitudinal axis, and a pair of transversely spaced side edges; locating a plurality of substantially identical laser welding devices above said upper surface and aligning said devices such that their welding beams will be directed along said common seam line, said welding devices each being effectively spaced at a distance from one another along said longitudinal axis, and each welding device beam being independently adjustable in a direction parallel to said transverse axis to track said common seam line; loading a plurality of sheets to be butt welded onto said upper surface, said loading step providing a first sheet generally along said transverse axis from one side edge of the table, and a second sheet generally along said transverse axis and from the other side edge; aligning proximal edges of said metallic sheets on said upper surface in abutting relationship along said common seam line by urging said sheets relatively inwardly and forward said longitudinal axis; magnetically clamping said sheets in abutted relationship along said common seam line; simultaneously operating said welding devices while providing relative movement between said welding beams and said common seam line along said longitudinal axis, whereby each welding beam welds only a portion of said sheets along said common seam line and wherein said relative movement extends along said longitudinal axis for a length which is greater than said spacing distance to insure some overlap of welding along said common seam line; and unloading a welded sheet from said welding table while other sheets to be butt welded are simultaneously provided to said welding table. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said step of operating said laser devices comprises individually controlling the transverse positioning of each laser beam to independently track the seam line during welding procedures. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein said step of providing relative movement between said welding beams and said seam line comprises reciprocating a movable portion of said upper surface of said table supporting said sheets in a direction parallel to said longitudinal axis while said laser welding devices remain substantially stationary along said longitudinal axis. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein said step of aligning said sheets in abutting relationship comprises creating an effective magnetic pole along the abutting edge of one or more of said sheets on said upper surface, and creating an effective magnetic pole of opposite polarity along the confronting edge of an oppositely facing sheet to cause magnetic attraction therebetween to automatically align such edges in intimate abutting relationship. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein said unloading step comprises moving said welded sheet in a direction parallel to said longitudinal axis and said common seam line. 20. An improved high production laser welding apparatus for butt welding a plurality of metallic sheets along a relatively long common seam line, said apparatus comprising: a welding table having a reciprocable upper surface on which a plurality of metallic sheets may be supported for welding along a common seam line, a longitudinal axis along which said common seam line will be aligned, a transverse axis substantially perpendicular to said longitudinal axis, and a pair of transversely oppositely spaced side edges; a plurality of laser welding devices mounted above said upper surface, spaced along said longitudinal axis and aligned such that their welding beams will be directed along said common seam line; means for loading a plurality of sheets to be butt welded onto said upper face, said loading means having a first means for providing a first sheet generally along said transverse axis from one side edge of the table, and second means for providing a second sheet generally along said transverse axis and from said oppositely spaced side edge; means for aligning said metallic sheets on said upper surface in abutting relationship along said common seam line, said aligning means comprising means for relatively moving said sheets inwardly along said transverse axis into close alignment along said common seam line and at least one retractable alignment stop therebetween; magnetic means for clamping said sheets in said abutted relationship along said common seam line; means for simultaneously moving said welding devices relative to said common seam line along said longitudinal axis, and means for simultaneously operating all of said welding devices to weld said sheets together, whereby each laser welds only a portion of said common seam line between said sheets, and the length of said relative movement is greater than said spacing distance between adjacent welding devices to insure some overlap of welding along said common seam line; and means for unloading sheets which have been welded together along said common seam line, said unloading means comprising means for moving said welded sheets in a direction parallel to said longitudinal axis and said common seam line. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein said first and second means for providing sheets each comprise a conveyor which supplies sheets to be loaded to respective oppositely spaced side edges. 22. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein said means for unloading comprises a removal device which reciprocates along a cross beam located above said welding table along said longitudinal axis. 23. An improved method for butt welding a plurality of metallic sheets along a relatively long common seam line between said sheets, said method comprising the following steps: providing a welding table having a reciprocable upper surface on which a plurality of metallic sheets may be supported for welding along a common seam line, a longitudinal axis along which said common seam line will be aligned, a transverse axis substantially perpendicular to said longitudinal axis, and a pair of transversely oppositely spaced side edges; locating at least one laser welding device above said upper surface and aligning said device such that its welding beam will be directed along said common seam line, said welding beam being independently adjustable in a direction parallel to said transverse axis to track said common seam line; loading a plurality of sheets to be butt welded onto said upper surface, said loading step including the steps of providing a first sheet generally along said transverse axis from a first side edge of the table, and providing a second sheet generally along said transverse axis and from the opposite side edge; aligning proximal edges of said metallic sheets on said upper surface in abutting relationship along said common seam line by urging said sheets relatively inwardly said preliminary alignment stops adjacent said longitudinal axis; retracting said preliminary alignment stops and completing final alignment in intimate abutting relationship along said common seam line; magnetically clamping said sheets in abutted relationship along said common seam line; welding said aligned sheets together along said common seam line; and unloading said welded sheets by moving them in a direction substantially perpendicular to said longitudinal axis and said common seam line. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein said unloading step comprises lifting the welded sheets from said table and moving them in a direction parallel to said longitudinal axis so that other sheets to be welded can be loaded onto said upper surface. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of placing an unloaded welded sheet on a conveying device for further processing. 