An overload protection device adapted to be secured between a robot arm and a tool, comprises a floating piston (20) within a cylinder (18). Hall effect sensors (124) are spaced around the cylinder wall and mating magnets (40) are spaced around the piston wall. The cylinder is pressurized to axially align the piston with the cylinder and to position each magnet in alignment with a sensor. When an overload occurs involving either the robot arm or the tool, the magnets are moved relative to the sensors causing the sensors to signal for depressurization of the cylinder. An electronic system (FIG. 27) responsive to the Hall effect sensor signals lights an "overload" LED D1 and triggers a timer circuit T1 which generates a timing pulse of fixed duration. During the duration of the timing pulse, the robot is de-energized. A red LED R is illuminated indicating the robot system is not ready to be operated. Also, a solenoid valve L1 is energized, cutting off the pressure to the cylinder.
Claims We claim: 1. An overload protector adapted to be secured between a robot arm and a tool, comprising: a cylinder having a central axis, an open end and a closed end, a floating piston located within the cylinder and having a central axis, a plurality of electromagnetic sensors for generating an electronic signal proportional to the strength of the sensed electromagnetic field secured to the cylinder and lying in a common plane normal to the cylinder axis and equally spaced, angularly, relative to the cylinder axis, a magnet for generating an electromagnetic field associated with each sensor, the magnets being secured to the piston in a common plane normal to the piston axis and equally spaced, angularly, relative to the piston axis, means for pressurizing the closed end of the cylinder to move the piston toward the open end, means to limit the movement of the piston toward the open end of the cylinder at a position where the common plane of the magnets and the common plane of the sensors are coincident, and means responsive to the electronic signals from the sensors for depressurizing the cylinder when the piston and cylinder are moved relative to each other and the piston moves toward the closed end of the cylinder and the common plane of the magnets and the common plane sensors are moved out of coincidence and the resultant relative movement between at least one magnet and its associated sensor cause a signal to be generated by at least one of the sensors to deviate substantially from a predetermined value. 2. An overload protector adapted to be secured between a robot arm and a tool, comprising: a cylinder having a central axis, an open end and a closed end, a floating piston located within the cylinder and having a central axis, a plurality of electromagnetic sensors for generating an electric signal proportional to the strength of the sensed electromagnetic field secured to the cylinder equally spaced, angularly, relative to the cylinder axis, a magnet associated with each sensor, the magnets being secured to the piston equally spaced, angularly, relative to the piston axis, means for pressurizing the closed end of the cylinder to move the piston toward the open end, guide means on the piston extending parallel to the piston axis, releasable detent means extending from the cylinder to the guide means on the piston to align each magnet angularly with its associated sensor and means responsive to the electronic signals from the sensors for depressurizing the cylinder when the piston and the cylinder are rotated relative to each other by a force sufficient to displace the detent means relative to the guide means and the resultant relative movement between at least one magnet and its associated sensor causes a signal to be generated by the sensor. 3. An overload protector adapted to be secured between a robot arm and a tool, comprising: a cylinder having a central axis, an open end and a closed end, a floating piston located within the cylinder and having a central axis, a plurality of electromagnetic sensors for generating an electronic signal proportional to the strength of the sensed electromagnetic field secured to the cylinder and lying in a common plane normal to the cylinder axis and equally spaced, angularly, relative to the cylinder axis, a magnet associated with each sensor, the magnets being secured to the piston in a common plane normal to the piston axis and equally spaced, angularly, relative to the piston axis, means for pressurizing the closed end of the cylinder to move the piston toward the open end, means to align the axis of the piston in coincidence with the axis of the cylinder and to position the common plane of the magnets in coincidence with the common plane of the sensors when the cylinder is pressurized, and means responsive to the electronic signals from the sensors for depressurizing the cylinder when the piston and the cylinder are displaced relative to each other and the axis of the piston and the axis of the cylinder are displaced out of coincidence and the resultant relative movement between at least one magnet and its associated sensor causes a signal to be generated by the sensor. 4. An overload protection device according to claim 1 wherein the means to limit the movement of the piston comprises conical mating surfaces on the piston and/or the cylinder adjacent the open end. 5. An overload protection device according to claim 2 wherein the releasable detent means is adjustable to vary the force with which it engages the guide means. 6. An overload protection device according to claim 2 wherein the guide means comprises V-shaped grooves in the piston. 7. An overload protection device according to claim 3 wherein the means to align the axis of the piston in coincidence with the axis of the cylinder, comprises angularly spaced projections and indentations on the piston and the cylinder. 8. An overload protection device according to claim 1 wherein a diaphragm separates the piston from the closed end of the cylinder. 9. An overload protection device according to claim 2 wherein a diaphragm separates the piston from the closed end of the cylinder. 10. An overload protection device according to claim 3 wherein a diaphragm separates the piston from the closed end of the cylinder. 11. Apparatus responsive to an overload signal indicative of excessive relative movement between a driving member and a driven member coupled together by an overload protection device in which said overload signal is generated and wherein such excessive relative movement derives from an overload condition, said apparatus comprising: a comparator circuit for comparing said overload signal to a reference level signal and generating a first pulse of a first polarity if said overload signal deviates from said level by a predetermined margin; overload indicator means responsive to said first pulse for generating a first signal indicative of said overload condition; valve means responsive to said first pulse for providing compliant coupling between said members; timer means responsive to said first pulse for generating a timing signal of known duration; de-energizing means responsive to said timing signal for de-energizing the driver of said driving member for the duration of said timing signal; a status indicator means responsive to said first pulse for indicating that said overload protection device is ready or is not ready to be operated; a switch means for de-energizing said valve means and re-energizing said driving member; and a reset signal for indicating when the overload condition has been corrected and said overload protection device has been reset. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the driving member comprises a robotic arm and the driven member comprises a tool. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the overload protection device comprises: a cylinder having a central axis, an open end and a closed end, a floating piston located within the cylinder and having a central axis, a diaphragm separating the piston from the closed end of the cylinder thereby providing compliant coupling between the piston and cylinder where the cylinder is not pressurized, a plurality of electromagnetic sensors for generating said overload signal, said signal being proportional to the strength of the sensed electromagnetic field, said sensors being secured to the cylinder and lying in a common plane normal to the cylinder axis and equally spaced, angularly, relative to the cylinder axis, a magnet associated with each sensor, the magnets being secured to the piston in a common plane normal to the piston axis and equally spaced, angularly, relative to the piston axis, means for pressurizing the closed end of the cylinder to move the piston toward the open end, and means to align the axis of the piston in coincidence with the axis of the cylinder and to position the common plane of the magnets in coincidence with the common plane of the sensors when the cylinder is pressurized. 14. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the overload signal is generated by Hall effect sensors mounted in said overload protection device on a cylinder adjacent magnets mounted on a piston wherein the piston and cylinder form a chamber separated by a diaphragm. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the valve means provides compliance coupling by depressurizing the chamber. 16. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the overload signal is an electronic signal, the first signal and reset signals are optical signals, and the switch means is manually operable. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the first signal and reset signal are generated by light emitting diode means capable of emitting red or green light and wherein the red light corresponds to the first signal while the green light corresponds to the reset signal. 18. The apparatus of claim 13 including means for preventing said valve means from being de-energized and said driving member energized unless the overload protection device has been aligned and nulled such that the overload signal from said sensors is below a predetermined level. 