This invention relates to improvements in foundry procedures, particularly in-process and post process inspection with electro-optical sensor units. Principally addressed are: inspection of molds and cores to assure correctness and control procedures to abort pouring if the molds are not correct, inspection of cores on the core line, inspection of patterns for sticking sand, inspection of finished castings for extraneous material in passages, excessive or inadequate stock, correct locator relationships, etc., and control of robotic flash grinders. Both fixed and programmably moveable sensors are shown in the context of these embodiments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for the automatic control of a casting machining operation, said method comprising: using electro-optical means at a first location to inspect a casting and obtain data with respect to that casting; providing the casting with identifying data which permits the casting to be identified when the casting travels on to a further location; transmitting the electro-optically obtained data together said identifying data regarding the specific casting to a main control unit for storage therein; transferring the casting with the identifying data to a said further location at which a machining operation is to be carried out; identifying the casting based the identifying data and using the data to access the main control unit thereby obtain the electro-optically obtained data for the casting stored in the main control unit; and carrying out the machining operation at said further location using the electro-optically obtained data. 2. A method for the automatic control of a casting machining operation as claimed in claim 1 wherein said identifying data is provided by applying a serial number to the casting. 3. A method for the automatic control of a casting machining operation as claimed in claim 2 wherein the serial number is applied using a laser. 4. A method for the automatic control of a casting machining operation as claimed in claim 1 wherein the casting includes casting locators for assisting in machining of the casting, and inspecting of the casting includes determining the position of at least one casting locator relative to at least one point to be machined so as to control how far in a cut is to be made during the machining operation. 5. A method for the automatic control of a casting machining operation as claimed in claim 1 wherein inspecting of the casting includes determining the presence of excess material and wherein said main control unit controls the machining operation accordingly. 6. A method for the automatic control of a casting machining operation as claimed in claim 1 wherein said main control unit determines from the electro-optically obtained data whether the casting has a defect and controls travel of the casting so as to prevent the casting from reaching the further location at which the machining operation takes place unless the defect is corrected. 7. Apparatus for the automatic control of a casting machining operation, said apparatus comprising: electro-optical means located at a first station for inspecting a casting so to obtain data with respect to that casting; a central memory; means for transmitting the data obtained by said electro-optical means, together with data identifying the casting, to said central memory unit for storage therein; means for transferring the casting to a further location at which a machining operation is to be carried out; and means at said further location for accessing the main memory unit based on the identifying data associated with the casting which has been transferred to the further location so as to obtain the electro-optically obtained data for the casting which is stored in said main memory, and for carrying out the machining operation using the electro-optically obtained data. 8. Apparatus for the automatic control of a casting machining operation according to claim 7 further comprising means for applying said identifying data, in the form of a serial number, to the castings. 9. Apparatus for the automatic control of a casting machining operation according to claim 8 wherein said serial number applying means comprises a laser. 10. Apparatus for the automatic control of a casting machining operation according to claim 8 wherein the castings each include casting locators for assisting in machining of the associated casting and said electro-optical means determines the position of at least one casting locator relative to at least one point to be machined. 