An adaptable, programmable production system for manufacturing articles in which a plurality of operations are required includes an electronically programmable robot having a controllable arm with an end effector disposed thereon. The robot is placed proximate a surface, preferably movable, to be used for the assembly of the articles. A passive, non-interactive storage tray is provided proximate the robot and within range of the extended robot arms. The end effector disposed on the distal end of the robot arm may be programmed to remove and replace a particular tool, component or any of the implement or component from the storage trays, bins or from a moving conveyor when within range and may be utilized to perform a plurality of functions, such as inserting components into the article being manufactured, or performing multiple operations thereon by exchanging tools.
Claims Having thus set forth the nature of the invention what is claimed is: 1. An adaptable, programmable production system for manufacturing articles requiring a plurality of operations, comprising, in combination: (a) electronically programmable robot means having one controllable arm, said robot means being disposed proximate a surface utilized for the assembly of said articles; (b) end effector means, disposed upon the distal end of said arm having movable gripper means, said gripper means including a pair of moving fingers having a locking mechanism disposed therein with a first or locking position and a second or releasing position, said gripper means fingers automatically exchanging and replacing end effector tools and components in response to a prescribed program coupled to said robot means, said gripper means fingers receiving, locking and releasing a plurality of end effector tools and components; (c) storage means for positioning said plurality of tools and components to be installed on said article being manufactured, said storage means being passive and non-interactive, solely providing a predetermined location for said tools and components and disposed proximate said robot means within the reach of said arm; said arm moving said end effector means to said storage means for selecting a component, a tool and thereafter a component and installing said component in said article being manufactured and selecting another tool for performing a plurality of pre-programmed operations on said article; and (d) means for supplying programmed information for performing said operations to said robot means. 2. An adaptable, programmable production system according to claim 1, wherein said assembly surface comprises a moving belt conveyor. 3. An adaptable, programmable production system according to claim 1, wherein said end effector tool includes light conductors which continue a light path provided in said end effector means, the interruption of said light path indicating when said end effector acquires a component. 4. An adaptable, programmable production system according to claim 1, wherein said storage means is stationary and non-interactive, solely providing a predetermined location and said end effector moves towards and selects an end effector tool from said storage means. 5. An adaptable, programmable production system according to claim 1, wherein each said end effector tool is of a different size and shape and is made to perform a different function. 6. A method of providing an adaptable programmable production system for manufacturing articles requiring a plurality of operations comprising the steps of: (a) providing an electronically programmable robot means having at least one control arm with an end effector having gripper means disposed on the distal end thereof, said gripper means including a pair of moving fingers having a locking mechanism disposed therein with a first or locking position and a second or releasing position; (b) providing a surface proximate said robot for the assembly of an article to be manufactured; (c) providing a storage means, said storage means being non-interactive, solely having a specific predetermined location for a plurality of tools and components to be installed in said article; (d) programming said robot arm means to cause said gripper means fingers to select a tool means by having said gripper means fingers engage said tool means and said locking mechanism move to said first or locking position responsive to a robotic command, said tool means being adapted to cooperate with a component from said storage means. 