An electrostatic clamp or chuck and method uses soft square wave, slew rate limited, A.C. clamping voltages and a balanced, differential drive for clamping flat articles such as semiconductor wafers to pedestals, wafer transfer blades, and the like, with a large ratio of clamping force to clamping voltage, reduced decay of the clamping force and associated nearly constant maximum clamping force, instantaneous elimination of remnant clamping force when the clamping voltage is removed (instant off operation), isolation of the clamped article from the clamping voltage, and substantial elimination of vibration. Preferably the A.C. frequency is 0.1 to 60 Hz. The instant off operation is enhanced by increasing the frequency as the clamping voltage is decreased.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of electrostatically clamping a workpiece to a support having at least a pair of dielectrically isolated electrodes comprising: applying to the paired electrodes an alternating current square-wave voltage of a frequency greater than 0.1 Hz and of a magnitude sufficient to clamp the workpiece flat against the support. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency of the applied voltage is with the range of about 0.1 to about 60 Hz. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the frequency of the applied voltage is within the range of about 0.1 to about 10 Hz. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the frequency of the applied voltage is about 1 Hz. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising turning off the clamping force by increasing the frequency of the clamping voltage while simultaneously decreasing the magnitude of the voltage. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the magnitude of the applied voltage is within the range of from about 500 to about 2000 volts. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the turn off frequency is over 60 Hz. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the applied voltage is slew rate limited. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein alternate electrodes are connected in common electrically. 10. A method of electrostatically clamping a semiconductor wafer to a wafer support which includes a layer of dielectric material over at least a pair of electrodes comprising: applying to the paired electrodes a differentially driven, balanced, alternating current square-wave voltage having a frequency of about 0.1 to about 60 Hz and a magnitude sufficient to clamp the semiconductor wafer flat against the support. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the frequency of the applied voltage is in the range of from about 0.1 to about 10 Hz. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein the frequency of the applied voltage is about 1 Hz. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein the magnitude of the applied voltage is within the range of about 500 to about 2000 volts. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein alternate electrodes are connected in common electrically. 15. The method of claim 10 further comprising turning off the clamping force by increasing the frequency of the clamping voltage while simultaneously decreasing the magnitude of the voltage. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the turn off frequency is over 60 Hz. 17. An electrostatic clamp comprising: an array of at least a pair of electrodes formed on a base, alternating electrodes being connected in common electrically; a layer of non-resilient dielectric material over the electrodes and the base, said dielectric material having a thickness sufficient to dielectrically isolate the electrodes and to prevent dielectric breakdown when a clamping voltage is applied; and means for applying a square-wave alternating voltage having a frequency greater than about 0.1 Hz between the alternating electrodes to generate an electrostatic clamping force between the clamp and a workpiece positioned thereon. 18. The clamp of claim 17 wherein the means for applying said voltage applies a voltage of a frequency within the range of from about 0.1 to about 60 Hz. 19. The clamp of claim 18 wherein the frequency of the applied voltage is within the range of from about 0.1 to about 10 Hz. 20. The clamp of claim 19 wherein the frequency of the applied voltage is about 1 Hz. 21. The clamp of claim 17 wherein the applied voltage is slew rate limited. 22. The clamp of claim 17 wherein said dielectric material is aluminum oxide. 23. The clamp of claim 22 wherein said dielectric material has a thickness of about 2 to about 15 mils. 24. The clamp of claim 17 wherein the magnitude of the applied voltage is within the range of from about 500 to about 2000 volts. 25. An electrostatic clamp comprising a flat base; an array comprising a plurality of electrodes formed on the base, alternate electrodes of the array being connected in common electrically; a layer of non-resilient dielectric material over the electrodes and the base, said dielectric material having a thickness sufficient to prevent dielectric breakdown when a clamping voltage is applied; and means for applying a differentially drive, balanced, square-wave, alternating voltage having a frequency within the range of about 0.1 to about 60 Hz between the alternating electrodes, whereby an electrostatic clamping force is generated between the clamp and a semiconductor wafer positioned thereon. 26. An electrostatic clamp of claim 25 wherein the frequency of the applied voltage is about 1 Hz. 27. An electrostatic clamp of claim 25 wherein said dielectric material is aluminum oxide. 28. An electrostatic clamp of claim 27 wherein said dielectric material has a thickness of about 2 to about 15 mils. 29. An electrostatic clamp of claim 25 wherein the magnitude of the applied voltage is about 500 to about 2000 volts. 30. An electrostatic clamp of claim 25 wherein the ratio of the width of the electrodes to the distance between the electrodes is about 3/1 to about 2/1. 31. An electrostatic clamp of claim 25 wherein the electrode width is about 12 to about 120 mils. 32. An electrostatic clamp of claim 25 wherein the distance between the electrodes is about 6 to about 40 mils. 33. An electrostatic clamp of claim 25 wherein the base is a wafer transfer blade. 34. An electrostatic clamp of claim 25 wherein the base is a wafer support pedestal adapted for applying heat transfer gas under pressure between the pedestal and the wafer thereon. 35. The method of claim 1 wherein said support is a wafer transfer blade. 36. The method of claim 10 wherein said support is a wafer transfer blade. 37. A method for transporting wafers in a wafer fabrication system utilizing an electrostatic wafer blade comprising a) placing a wafer to be transported on a top surface of the blade, said top surface having at least one pair of interleaved electrodes, alternating electrodes being connected in common electrically; said electrodes having a width and a spatial distance between said electrodes based on a correlated ratio defined by (electrode width/distance between electrodes) ranging from 3/1 to 21; b) applying a square wave alternating voltage having a frequency greater than 0.1 Hz between the alternating electrodes to generate an electrostatic clamping force between the blade and the wafer thereon; and c) accelerating the movement of the blade with a mechanical arm attached to the blade to effectuate controlled movement of the wafer in the system, whereby said clamping force holds the wafer onto the blade during accelerational movement. 