A method for removing material from a structure, comprising the steps of: (1) generating a light beam; (2) irradiating the surface material of a structure with the light beam having an intensity sufficient to ablate the surface material and to cause the surface material to generate spectral emission signals having intensities; (3) scanning the structure with the light beam at a scan speed; (4) monitoring the spectral emissions to detect a selected one of the spectral emission signals having a selected wavelength and generating an electronic output signal representative of the intensity of a selected one of the spectral emission signals in response to detecting the selected one of the spectral emission signals; (5) determining an updated scan speed functionally related to the electronic output signal; and (6) directing the scan speed to be equal to the updated scan speed. A second embodiment determines the updated scan speed based on the intensity of spectral emission signals detected during predetermined intervals while the structure is illuminated by the light source. A third embodiment determines an updated scan speed based on the intensity of spectral emission signals resulting from a laser pulse irradiating the structure when the output of the light beam is approximately at a minimum.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A method for removing material from a structure, comprising the steps of: (1) generating a light beam; (2) irradiating the surface material of a structure with said light beam having an intensity sufficient to ablate said surface material and to cause said surface material to generate spectral emission signals; (3) scanning said structure with said light beam at a scan speed; (4) monitoring said spectral emissions to detect a selected one of said spectral emission signals having an intensity and a selected wavelength and generating an electronic output signal representative of the intensity of a selected one of said spectral emission signals in response to detecting said selected one of said spectral emission signals; (5) determining an updated scan speed functionally related to said electronic output signal; and (6) directing said scan speed to be equal to said updated scan speed. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of generating includes generating a pulsed light beam. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of generating includes generating a broad-band incoherent pulsed light beam. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of generating further includes generating said light beam having spectral components having wavelengths that may range from 170 to 5000 nanometers. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of determining said scan speed includes: relating said updated scan speed to the value of said electronic output signal by an increasing function. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein in the step of generating said light beam includes generating said light beam having component wavelengths that are different from said selected wavelength. 7. The method of claim 5 further including the step of cooling said structure. 8. The method of claim 7 including cooling and cleaning said structure by impinging a particle stream on said surface material. 9. The method of claim 8 including impinging said surface with carbon dioxide pellets entrained in a dry gas stream. 10. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of determining said scan speed includes: relating said updated scan speed to said electronic output signal by a decreasing function. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein in the step of generating said light beam includes generating said light beam having component wavelengths that are different from said selected wavelength. 12. The method of claim 10 further including the step of cooling said structure. 13. The method of claim 12 including cooling and cleaning said structure by impinging a particle stream on said surface material. 14. The method of claim 13 including impinging said surface with carbon dioxide pellets entrained in a dry gas stream. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of generating includes generating a broad-based pulsed light beam. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of generating includes generating a coherent pulsed light beam with a laser. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of determining said scan speed includes: relating said updated scan speed to the value of said electronic output signal by an increasing function. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein in the step of generating said light beam includes generating said light beam having component wavelengths that are different from said selected wavelength. 19. The method of claim 17 further including the step of cooling said structure. 20. The method of claim 19 including cooling and cleaning said structure by impinging a particle stream on said surface material. 21. The method of claim 20 including impinging said surface with carbon dioxide pellets entrained in a dry gas stream. 22. The method of claim 16 wherein the step of determining said scan speed includes: relating said updated scan speed to said electronic output signal by a decreasing function. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein in the step of generating said light beam includes generating said light beam having component wavelengths that are different from said selected wavelength. 24. The method of claim 22 further including the step of cooling said structure. 25. The method of claim 24 including cooling and cleaning said structure by impinging a particle stream on said surface material. 26. The method of claim 25 including impinging said surface with carbon dioxide pellets entrained in a dry gas stream. 27. A method for removing material from a structure, comprising the steps of: (1) generating a pulsed light beam having a pulse period; (2) irradiating the surface material of a structure with said pulsed light beam at an intensity sufficient to ablate said surface material and to cause said ablating surface material to generate spectral emission signals having intensities; (3) scanning the structure with the light beam; (4) monitoring said spectral emissions to detect a selected one of said spectral emission signals having a selected wavelength and generating electronic output signals representative of the intensity of said selected one of said spectral emission signals in response to detecting said selected one of said spectral emissions signals; (5) determining an updated scan speed functionally related to said electronic output signals generated during a predetermined interval of said pulse period of said light beam; and (6) directing said scan speed to be equal to said updated scan speed. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the step of determining said scan speed includes: relating said updated scan speed to said electronic output signals by an increasing function. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the step of determining said scan speed includes: relating said updated scan speed to said electronic output signals by a decreasing function. 30. The method of claims 28 or 29 including generating said light beam with component wavelengths that are all different from said selected wavelength. 31. The method of claim 30 further including cooling and cleaning said irradiated surface material with a particle steam impinging said surface. 32. The method of claim 31 including cooling and cleaning said surface material by impinging a stream of carbon dioxide pellets entrained in dry gas on said surface material. 33. The method of claims 28 or 29 including generating said light beam with a flashlamp so as to produce an incoherent light beam. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the step of generating includes generating said incoherent light having wavelength components that may be 170 to 5000 nanometers. 35. The method of claims 28 or 29 including generating said light beam with a laser so as to produce a coherent light beam. 36. A method for removing material from a structure, comprising the steps of: (1) generating a pulsed and coherent light beam having a broadband output and a pulse period; (2) irradiating the surface material of a structure at a target area with said pulsed light beam at an intensity sufficient to ablate said surface material; (3) irradiating said target area of said structure with a laser pulse having an intensity sufficient to ablate said surface material so as to cause said surface material to generate spectral emission signals having intensities when a difference between said spectral characteristics of said light beam and said spectral emission signals is substantially at a maximum; (4) scanning said structure with said light beam at a scan speed; (5) monitoring said spectral emission signals to detect a selected one of said spectral emission signals having a selected wavelength, and generating electronic output signals representative of the intensity of said selected one of said spectral emission signals in response to detecting said selected one of said spectral emission signals; (6) determining an updated scan speed functionally related to said electronic output signals generated during a predetermined interval of said pulse period; and (7) directing said scan speed to be equal to said updated scan speed. 37. The method of claim 36 wherein the step of determining said scan speed includes: relating said updated scan speed to said electronic output signals by an increasing function. 38. The method of claim 37 wherein the step of determining said scan speed includes: relating said updated scan speed to said electronic output signals by a decreasing function. 39. The method of claim 37 or 38 further including cooling and cleaning said structure with a particle stream impinging said structure. 40. The method of claim 39 including cooling and cleaning said structure by impinging a stream of carbon dioxide pellets on said structure. 41. The method of claim 40 including generating said light beam with a flashlamp. 42. A system for removing material from a structure, comprising: an optical energy source for generating a pulsed light beam for irradiating the surface material of a structure with said a pulsed light beam having an intensity sufficient to ablate said surface material and to cause said ablated surface material to generate spectral emission signals having intensities; scanning means supporting said optical energy source for scanning said structure with said light beam; photodetecting means for monitoring said spectral emissions to detect a selected one of said spectral emission signals having a selected wavelength and for generating an electronic output signal functionally related to the intensity of said selected one of said spectral emission signals in response to detecting said selected one of said spectral emission signals; and a data processor operably coupled to said photodetecting means and said scanning means for determining a scan speed functionally related to said electronic output signal and for directing said scanning means to transport said optical energy source at said scan speed so that said light beam scans said structure at said scan speed. 43. A system for removing material from a structure, comprising: an optical energy source generating a pulsed, incoherent light beam for irradiating the surface material of a structure with said light beam having an intensity sufficient to ablate said surface material and to cause said ablated surface material to generate spectral emission signals having intensities, where said light beam has a pulse period; scanning means for scanning said structure with said light beam; photodetecting means for monitoring said spectral emissions to detect the intensity of a selected one of said spectral emission signals having a selected wavelength and generating electronic output signals representative of said selected one of said spectral emission signals in response to detecting said selected one of said spectral emissions signals; and a data processor operably coupled to said photodetecting means and to said scanning means for determining a scan speed functionally related to said electronic output signals generated during a predetermined interval of said pulse period. 44. A system for removing material from a structure, comprising: an optical energy source generating a pulsed, incoherent light beam having a pulse period for irradiating the surface material of a structure at a target area with said light beam having an intensity sufficient to ablate said surface material; a laser generating a pulsed, coherent laser beam for irradiating said target area of said structure with said laser beam having an intensity sufficient to ablate said surface material so as to cause said surface material to generate spectral emission signals having intensities when said amplitude of said waveform of said light beam is approximately at said minimum amplitude; scanning means supporting said incoherent optical energy means and said laser for scanning said structure with said incoherent light and laser beams; photodetecting means mounted to said scanning means for monitoring said spectral emissions to detect a selected one of said spectral emission signals having a selected wavelength and generating an electronic output signal representative of the intensity of said selected one of said spectral emission signals in response to detecting said selected one of said spectral emission signals generated by said laser pulse; a data processor operably coupled to said monitoring means and said scanning means for determining a scan speed functionally related to said electronic output signal generated during a predetermined interval of said pulse period. 