A digital robotic axis controller which employs a digital processor to apply the inverse of a plant model transfer function to positional information representative of a target path to generate a feed forward position control signal and to combine an error signal with the positional information to generate a feedback control signal. The feed forward and feedback control signals are combined to produce a total position control signal which is supplied to a digital-to-analog converter and then to a plant comprising an amplifier, a motor for establishing the actual position of a robotic member, and an encoder for deriving the error signal from the motor position. In application, a number of such plants are controlled to achieve a coordinated multidimensional movement with increased accuracy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An axis controller adapted to be supplied with target path positional information for generating a position control signal for establishing an actual position for a selected plant comprising: means receiving said target path positional information as its only position- related input for filtering said target path positional information to generate an open loop positional control signal; means responsive to said actual position and said target path positional information for generating a feedback control signal; and means for generating said position control signal from said open loop positional control signal and said feedback control signal. 2. The axis controller of claim 1 wherein said means for filtering comprises means for combining said target path positional information with the inverse of the transfer function of a model of said plant to generate said open loop control signal. 3. The axis controller of claim 1 wherein said positional information comprises digital data and wherein said means for filtering comprises a digital filter means for performing a digital filtering operation on said digital data to produce an open loop control signal. 4. The axis controller of claim 3 wherein said actual position is represented by a digital position signal and said means for generating a feedback control signal comprises: means for subtracting said digital data from said actual digital position signal to produce an error signal; and means for applying a feedback control transfer function to said error signal and outputting a feedback control signal. 5. The axis controller of claim 4 wherein said means for generating said position control signal includes means for adding said feedback control signal and open loop control signal to generate said position control signal, and converter means for converting said position control signal to an output signal. 6. The axis controller of claim 5 wherein said plant comprises: amplifier means for receiving said output signal as an input and having an output; motor means for providing a positional movement in response to the output of said amplifier means; and encoder means for tracking the positional movement of said motor means. 7. The axis controller of claim 6 wherein said amplifier means comprises a voltage controlled amplifier. 8. The axis controller of claim 7 wherein said encoder means further provides said digital position 9. The axis controller of claim 3 wherein said digital filter means comprises a programmed digital processor. 10. The axis controller of claim 9 wherein said programmed digital processor comprises means for generates said feedback control signal. 11. The axis controller of claim 10 wherein said programmed digital processor means generates said position control signal. 12. Robotic apparatus including a positionable robotic member, said apparatus adapted to be supplied with digital target path positional data, and comprising: digital processor means for generating an open loop control signal from said digital data, responsive to an error signal for generating a feedback control signal from said digital data and for generating a position control signal from said open loop and feedback control signals; means responsive to said position control signal for positioning said robotic member; and means responsive to the actual position of said robotic member for generating said error signal and supplying it to said digital processor means. 13. The robotic apparatus of claim 12 wherein said digital processor means generates said open loop control signal by subjecting said digital data to a digital filtering operation. 14. The robotic apparatus of claim 13 wherein said positionable robotic member is represented by a plant transfer function and wherein said digital filtering operation is performed according to a filter function which comprises the inverse of said plant transfer function. 15. The robotic apparatus of claim 14 wherein said digital processor means generates said feedback signal by subtracting said error signal from said digital data and applying a feedback control transfer function to the result of the subtraction. 16. The robotic apparatus of claim 15 wherein said positioning means comprises: amplifier means; and motor means responsive to the output of the amplifier means. 17. The robotic apparatus of claim 16 wherein said error signal generating means comprises encoder means responsive to the position of said motor means to generate said error signal. 18. A method for generating a position control signal for establishing an actual position for a selected plant from target path positional information, comprising the steps of: generating an open loop positional control signal from said target path positional information utilizing an expression derived from the transfer function of a model of said plant; generating a feedback control signal from said actual position and said target path positional information; and generating said position control signal from said open loop positional control signal and said feedback control signal. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said positional information comprises digital data and wherein said step of filtering comprises performing a digital filtering operation on said digital data to produce an open loop control signal. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said actual position is represented by a digital position signal and said step of generating a feedback control signal comprises the steps of: subtracting said digital data from said actual digital position signal to produce an error signal; and applying a feedback control transfer function to said error signal and outputting a feedback control signal. 