A robotic tattoo application and tattoo removal methods and systems are described. This technology involves the use of a robotic system guided by control of a graphics capable computer in order to perform various types, including artistic, recreational, cosmetic, or therapeutic tattooing, or tattoo removal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for color matching at least one element of a new tattoo to a field on a body surface comprising: identifying in an image of a body surface to be tattooed a field to which a color of at least one element of a new tattoo is to be matched; processing the image to determine a color spectrum of the field; and color matching the at least one element of the new tattoo to one or more colors of the color spectrum of the field. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising registering the image with a robotic system. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein registering the image with the robotic system is accomplished by means of at least one fiducial mark. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein at least a portion of a pre-existing tattoo is used as the at least one fiducial mark. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising applying the color matched new tattoo on the body surface using a robotic system. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising maneuvering a robotic arm to position a tattoo tool carried by the robotic arm proximate a location on the body surface where the new tattoo is intended to be created. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the field is a pre-existing tattoo or a portion thereof. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the field is a portion of a skin surface and a color of the at least one element of the new tattoo is chosen to compliment a color of the portion of the skin surface. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the body surface comprises a tissue with a deficient or abnormal color, the field comprises a normal skin color, and color matching of the at least one element of the new tattoo to the field comprises adding one or more colors to the tissue with a deficient or abnormal color to simulate the normal skin color. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the new tattoo is one or more of an extension, a modification, or an enhancement of a pre-existing tattoo. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the field is adjacent a birth mark, scar tissue or tissue with absent, deficient or abnormal pigment. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying a new tattoo image to be matched, wherein identifying the tattoo image comprises selecting the tattoo image from a collection of one or more images, downloading a desired image from an external source, or creating a new desired tattoo image. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising modifying the identified new tattoo image as desired or to fit the size and location of the body surface. 14. A system for color matching at least one element of a new tattoo to a field on a body surface, comprising: an image acquisition device; and an image processor, the image processor configured for: processing an image obtained by the image acquisition device, the obtained image including a field to which a color of at least one element of a new tattoo to be matched; analyzing a color spectrum of the field; and color matching the at least one element of the new tattoo to one or more colors of the color spectrum of the field. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the image acquisition device is one or more cameras and the image processor is a computer. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein the image processor is further configured to analyze and choose colors based at least in part on a selected criteria. 17. The system of claim 14, further comprising: a robotic arm; and a tattoo tool carried by the robotic arm, the tattoo tool being operable using a substantially automated process to deliver a pigment for color matching. 18. The system of claim 14, further comprising a collection of tattoo images stored in the image processor. 19. The system of claim 14, further comprising a plurality of reservoirs, each reservoir containing a color pigment, and wherein a tattoo tool is adapted to be selectively coupled to a respective one or more of the plurality of reservoirs to control colors of the new tattoo. 20. The system of claim 14, further comprising a user interface that allows a system operator to input instructions relating to one or more of a type, location, orientation, size, configuration, depth or color of the new tattoo. 21. An image processor for color matching at least an element of a new tattoo to a field on a body surface, the image processor configured for: receiving an image of a body surface to be tattooed, the image including a field on the body surface to which a color of at least one element of a new tattoo is to be matched; processing the image to analyze a color spectrum of the field; and color matching the at least one element of the new tattoo to one or more colors of the color spectrum of the field. 