A system for coating a stent includes a device for weighing a stent, a device for aligning the stent with a stent support, a device for coating the stent, a device for drying the stent, and a device for inspecting the stent.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for coating a stent, comprising: a device for weighing a stent; a gripper configured to move the stent, from the device for weighing, onto a stent support; a device for aligning the stent with the stent support such that the stent is coaxial with the stent support; a device for coating the stent while the stent is on and coaxial with the stent support, the device for coating including a device configured to discharge a coating composition toward the stent and a device configured to rotate the stent support while the stent is on and coaxial with the stent support; a device for drying the stent; and a device for inspecting the stent wherein the device for aligning includes a camera configured to take an image of the stent, a computer configured to receive the image and to provide a signal based on the image, and a mechanism configured to move a first portion of the stent support relative to a second portion of the stent support based on the signal. 2. A method for coating a stent, comprising: weighing a stent using a device for weighing a stent; moving the stent, from the device for weighing, onto a stent support; aligning the stent with the stent support such that the stent is coaxial with the stent support; coating the stent while the stent is on and coaxial with the stent support, the coating of the stent including discharging a coating composition toward the stent and rotating the stent support during the discharging and while the stent is on and coaxial with the stent support; drying the stent; and inspecting the stent wherein the aligning of the stent includes taking an image of the stent, providing a signal based on the image, moving a first portion of the stent support relative to a second portion of the stent support based on the signal. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the device for drying includes a heating device and a transfer mechanism configured to move the stent support with the stent toward the heating device. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the device for inspecting includes a roller assembly configured to rotate the stent, a camera configured to take images of the stent, and a computer coupled to the roller assembly and the camera and configured to coordinate rotation of the stent by the roller assembly with imaging of the stent by the camera. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the drying of the stent includes moving the stent support with the stent toward a heating device. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the inspecting of the stent includes rotating the stent, taking images of the stent, and coordinating the rotating of the stent with the taking of the images. 