Apparatus (24) for feeding electrical connectors from slide packs (SP), to a pick and place robot (2), comprises an elevator (44) which is raised to pick the lowermost pack (SP') from a stack of packs (SP) in a magazine (36). The elevator (44) is then lowered into a connector feed position in which a ram (54) on a flexible chain (52) is run step by step through the pack (SP') on the elevator (44) to place each connector (C) in the pack (SP'), in turn, at a pick-up station (26) to be picked up by the robot (2). When the pack (SP') on the elevator (44) has been emptied of connectors (C), the elevator (44) is raised and the ram (54) is advanced in one stroke beneath pack (SP') on the elevator (44) and a latch (56) on the ram (54) rises to engage the end of the empty pack (SP') nearest to the pick-up station (26). The ram (54) is then retracted, in one stroke, to eject the empty pack (SP') from the apparatus (24).
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for sequentially feeding electrical connectors arranged in rows in elongate tubular packs, for pick-up by connector pick-up means, the apparatus comprising: an elongate frame having a first end, a second end, a lower part, and an upper magazine part for containing a vertical stack of said packs with said packs extending lengthwise of the frame; a pack transfer elevator mounted in the lower part of the frame for vertical movement towards and away from said upper part, between a pack pick-up raised position, a connector feed lowered position and a pack eject intermediate position; a connector pick-up station beyond the first end of the frame and in alignment with said elevator when it is in its connector feed position; a connector feed and pack eject ram mounted to the frame for movement from said second end thereof towards and away from said connector pick-up station, said ram having pack engaging means thereon; and means for actuating said elevator and said ram, to cause, consecutively, said elevator to move to its pack pick-up position to pick up the lowermost pack of the stack, said elevator to move to its connector feed position, said ram to advance intermittently from said second end of the frame and through said lowermost pack to feed each connector therein in turn, to said connector pick-up station, said ram to retract from said lowermost pack, towards said second end, said elevator to be raised to its pack eject position, said ram to be advanced beneath said pack so that said pack engaging means thereon engages said lowermost pack, and said ram to be retracted towards said second end of the frame to eject said lowermost pack from the apparatus. 2. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a flexible ram carrier and rotary drive means for driving said ram carrier to drive said ram towards and away from said pick-up station, said pack engaging means comprising a resiliently depressable latch member on the ram. 3. Apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein said flexible member is in the form of a chain having links which are relatively rotatable only in a direction to enable said chain to engage about said rotary drive means, the axis of rotation of said drive means being horizontal. 4. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said elevator is provided with a slide-way for said ram, said slide-way extending lengthwise of said frame. 5. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising escapement means for supporting lowermost pack in said upper magazine part of the frame and means on said elevator for actuating said escapement means to release said lowermost pack, as said elevator rises to its pack pick-up position. 6. Apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said escapement means, comprises a plurality of star wheels having pack supporting arms and being mounted on the upper part of said frame, said release means comprising a spring loaded abutment for each star wheel, the abutments being mounted to the upper part of the frame, and abutment engaging members on said elevator, each abutment being urged towards a first position to inhibit rotation of the associated star wheel and being movable to a second position to permit rotation thereof by an adjacent one of said abutment engaging members. 7. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, comprising linkage means connecting said elevator to said frame, and unidirectionally rotatable drive means connected to said linkage means for driving said elevator consecutively between its pack pick-up, its connector feed, and its pack eject positions. 8. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, comprising means on said elevator for grasping said lowermost pack, upon the elevator reaching its pack pick-up position, with the pack spaced from the elevator at least by the height of the ram. 9. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, comprising means connected to the frame for raising each connector at the pick-up station, means for actuating the raising means upon arrival of the connector at the pick-up station, and means for locating the connector, when it has been raised by the raising means, in a predetermined position at the pick-up station. 10. Apparatus as claimed in claim 9, wherein said raising means comprises a vertically movable slide, and drive means for said slide, and said positioning means comprises a comb fixed to said slide and means for urging each connector at the pick-up station towards said comb when the slide is in a raised position, to engage the tails of terminals depending from said connector against said comb. 11. Apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a connector tray extending between said elevator and said pick-up station, for receiving connectors fed from said pack by said ram, in horizontally stacked relationship. 12. Apparatus as claimed in claim 11, comprising means on said tray for opening a hinged flap closing the adjacent end of said pack as said elevator is moved to its connector feed position. 13. Apparatus for sequentially feeding electrical connectors arranged in rows extending lengthwise of elongate, rectangular cross section, tubular packs, for pick-up by a robot gripper head, the apparatus comprising: an elongate frame having a first end, a second end, a lower part, and an upper magazine part containing a vertical stack of said packs with the packs extending lengthwise of the frame; releasable escapement means connected to said upper part and supporting the lowermost pack of the stack; a pack transfer elevator extending beneath said stack for substantially the whole length thereof and being mounted in the lower part of the frame for vertical movement towards and away from said upper part, between a pack pick-up position adjacent to said lowermost pack, a connector feed position below said stack and a pack eject intermediate position located above said lowered position; a connector pick-up station located beyond the first end of the frame at the level of said connector feed position of said elevator; a connector collecting tray between said elevator and said pick-up station; a connector feed and pack eject ram having a depressable pack latch thereon and being mounted in the lower part of the frame for movement from the first end thereof horizontally towards and away from said connector pick-up station; means for driving said elevator consecutively between its pack pick-up, connector feed, and pack eject positions; and and ram driving means for consecutively driving the ram from said second end of the frame and step by step through a pack on the elevator to position each connector therein in turn at the pick-up station, for retracting the ram from the pack on the elevator, for advancing the ram beneath the pack, in the eject position of the elevator to engage said latch on the ram with that end of the pack on the elevator, which is nearest to the pick-up station and for again retracting the ram to eject the pack engaged by the latch member from the apparatus. 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, comprising means at the pick-up station for raising each connector upon arrival thereat and for horizontally positioning the connector for pick-up by the pick-up head. 15. Apparatus as claimed in claim 13, comprising means on the elevator, for retaining a pack in position thereon when the pack has been picked up by the elevator. 