A robotic structure having a low mass, capable of providing seven degrees of freedom, and movable in a hemispherical workspace. The robotic structure includes several platforms connected by actuatable longitudinal members and movable joints made of intersecting or interwoven wire members.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A low mass robotic arm comprising: a base platform; an effector platform; means for supportively spacing and connecting said base platform and said effector platform, said means for supportively spacing and connecting said base platform and said effector platform comprising interwoven movable joint means intermediate said base platform and said effector platform; linear actuator means operatively connecting said base platform and said effector platform; and means for selectively actuating each of said linear actuator means to operate said robotic arm. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein said platform spacing and connecting means further comprises multiple longitudinal member means. 3. The invention of claim 2 wherein said multiple longitudinal member means comprises a plurality of bundles of longitudinal members. 4. The invention of claim 3 wherein said plurality of bundles is an odd plurality. 5. The invention of claim 3 wherein each of said bundles comprises an odd plurality of longitudinal members. 6. The invention of claim 3 wherein said at least one of said bundles further comprises movably engageable means for adjusting the resistance to movement of said interwoven movable joint means. 7. The invention of claim 1 wherein said platforms are in a triangular configuration. 8. The invention of claim 1 wherein said effector platform is adapted to engage at least one device selected from the group consisting of a robotic hand, and end effector, a gripper, and a robotics fixture. 9. The invention of claim 1 wherein said actuator means comprises at least one drive means selected from the group consisting of hydraulic, pneumatic, mechanical, magnetic, and electrical drive means. 10. A low mass robotic arm having at least seven degrees of freedom, capable of moving substantially throughout a hemispherical work space comprising: a base platform; at least one joint platform; an effector platform; means for supportively spacing and connecting said base platform and at least one said joint platform, said means for supportively spacing and connecting said base platform and at least one said joint platform comprising first interwoven movable joint means intermediate said base platform and at least one said joint platform; first linear actuator means operatively connecting said base platform and at least one said joint platform; means for supportively spacing and connecting at least one said joint platform and said effector platform, said means for supportively spacing and connecting at least one said joint platform and said effector platform comprising second interwoven movable joint means intermediate at least one said joint platform and said effector platform; second linear actuator means operatively connecting at least one said joint platform and said effector platform; and means for selectively actuating each of said linear actuator means to operate said robotic arm. 11. The invention of claim 10 wherein at least one of said platform spacing and connecting means further comprises multiple longitudinal member means. 12. The invention of claim 11 wherein said multiple longitudinal member means comprises a plurality of bundles of longitudinal members. 13. The invention of claim 12 wherein said plurality of bundles is an odd plurality. 14. The invention of claim 12 wherein each of said bundles comprises an odd plurality of longitudinal members. 15. The invention of claim 12 wherein at least one of said bundles further comprises movably engageable means for adjusting the resistance to movement of said interwoven movable joint means. 16. The invention of claim 10 wherein at least one of said interwoven movable joint means comprises additional means for adjusting resistance to movement within said interwoven movable joint means. 17. The invention of claim 10 wherein at least one of said platforms connects with one of said spacing and connecting means in a triangular configuration. 18. The invention of claim 17 wherein said triangular configuration comprises an equilateral triangular configuration. 19. The invention of claim 10 wherein at least one of said platforms connects with one of said actuator means in a triangular configuration. 20. The invention of claim 19 wherein said triangular configuration comprises an equilateral triangular configuration. 21. The invention of claim 10 wherein said effector platform is adapted to engage at least one device selected from the group consisting of a robotic hand, an end effector, a gripper, and a robotics fixture. 22. The invention of claim 10 wherein said actuator means comprises at least one drive means selected from the group consisting of hydraulic, pneumatic, mechanical, magnetic, and electrical drive means. 23. The invention of claim 10 comprising two or more joint platforms, the robotic arm further comprising: means for supportively spacing and connecting said joint platforms further comprising additional interwoven movable joint means; additional linear actuator means operatively connecting said joint platforms; and means for selectively actuating each of said additional linear actuator means to operate said robotic arm. 