Hybrid terrain-adaptive lower-extremity apparatus and methods that perform in a variety of different situations by detecting the terrain that is being traversed, and adapting to the detected terrain. In some embodiments, the ability to control the apparatus for each of these situations builds upon five basic capabilities: (1) determining the activity being performed; (2) dynamically controlling the characteristics of the apparatus based on the activity that is being performed; (3) dynamically driving the apparatus based on the activity that is being performed; (4) determining terrain texture irregularities (e.g., how sticky is the terrain, how slippery is the terrain, is the terrain coarse or smooth, does the terrain have any obstructions, such as rocks) and (5) a mechanical design of the apparatus that can respond to the dynamic control and dynamic drive.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for minimizing the effect of accelerometer and rate gyro errors on a lower extremity prosthesis or orthosis comprising a foot member, a lower leg member, and an ankle joint for connecting the foot member to the lower leg member, the method comprising using a controller on the prosthesis or orthosis for: determining at least one velocity error contribution for an accelerometer signal output by an accelerometer coupled to the lower leg member when the ankle joint is substantially stationary during a walking cycle of the prosthesis or orthosis; and determining at least one velocity error contribution for an inertial pose misalignment signal output by an inertial measurement unit coupled to the lower leg member when the ankle joint is substantially stationary during a walking cycle of the prosthesis or orthosis by solving a set of strapdown integration equations to derive at least one world frame-referenced ankle joint parameter. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the inertial pose misalignment signal output by the inertial measurement unit is a rate gyro signal output by a rate gyro. 3. The method of claim 2, comprising computing the pose of the lower leg member using signals output by the accelerometer and rate gyro. 4. The method of claim 3, comprising correcting the computed pose of the lower leg member using the velocity error contributions. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the velocity error contributions are determined during a portion of a controlled dorsiflexion state of the walking cycle. 6. The method of claim 2, comprising determining velocity error contributions for an accelerometer signal and rate gyro signal output by an accelerometer and rate gyro coupled to a thigh member of the prosthesis or orthosis when the ankle joint is substantially stationary during a walking cycle of the prosthesis or orthosis. 7. The method of claim 2, comprising determining velocity error contributions for an accelerometer signal and rate gyro signal output by an accelerometer and rate gyro coupled to a thigh member of the prosthesis or orthosis when a computed position on a foot member is substantially stationary. 8. The method of claim 6, comprising measuring the angle of the lower leg member relative to the thigh member. 9. The method of claim 6, comprising determining velocity error contributions for an accelerometer signal and rate gyro signal output by an accelerometer and rate gyro coupled to a wearer's torso when the ankle joint is substantially stationary during a walking cycle of the prosthesis or orthosis. 10. The method of claim 9, comprising measuring the angle of the thigh member relative to the wearer's torso. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the inertial measurement unit comprises at least one of the accelerometer and the rate gyro. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the ankle joint parameter is selected from the group consisting of position, velocity, and orientation. 