A sterile adaptor, a sterile drape with the integrated sterile adaptor, and a telerobotic surgical system including the sterile drape with a drape interface are provided. The adaptor, drape, and system allow for draping portions of a telerobotic surgical system to maintain a sterile barrier between the sterile surgical field and the non-sterile robotic system while also providing an interface for transferring mechanical and electrical energy and signals between a robotic arm and a surgical instrument in the sterile field.
Claims We claim: 1. A sterile adaptor, comprising: a rigid exterior surface adapted to couple to a sterile surgical instrument in a sterile field; a rigid interior surface adapted to couple to a non-sterile manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system; and a drape interface including a flexible drape material positioned between a rotatable input of the surgical instrument and a rotatable input of the manipulator arm, the drape interface adapted to transmit torque from the manipulator arm rotatable input to the surgical instrument rotatable input through the flexible drape material. 2. The adaptor of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface includes retaining structures forming a wedge shape narrowing from a proximal end to a distal end. 3. The adaptor of claim 1, wherein the drape interface includes two rings with the flexible drape material therebetween. 4. The adaptor of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of drape interfaces, wherein each drape interface is adapted to receive an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm. 5. The adaptor of claim 4, further comprising a retractor plate including the plurality of drape interfaces. 6. The adaptor of claim 5, wherein the retractor plate includes a top plate and a bottom plate with the flexible drape material therebetween. 7. The adaptor of claim 1, further comprising an electrical contact adapted to pass electrical signals between the manipulator arm and the surgical instrument. 8. A sterile adaptor, comprising: a rigid exterior surface adapted to couple to a sterile surgical instrument in a sterile field; a rigid interior surface adapted to couple to a non-sterile manipulator arm of a robotic surgical system; and a drape interface including a flexible drape material positionable between a rotatable input of the surgical instrument and a rotatable input of the manipulator arm, the drape interface adapted to transmit torque from the manipulator arm rotatable input to the surgical instrument rotatable input through the flexible drape material, wherein the drape interface includes a rotating disk with an indent for receiving the input of the surgical instrument. 9. A sterile drape to cover a non-sterile portion of a robotic surgical system, the sterile drape comprising: a flexible exterior surface adapted to be positioned adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; a flexible interior surface adapted to receive a non-sterile manipulator arm of the robotic surgical system; and a sterile adaptor including: a rigid exterior surface adapted to couple to a sterile surgical instrument in the sterile field; a rigid interior surface adapted to couple to the non-sterile manipulator arm; and a drape interface having a flexible drape material positioned between a rotatable input of the surgical instrument and a rotatable input of the manipulator arm, the drape interface adapted to transmit torque from the manipulator arm rotatable input to the surgical instrument rotatable input through the flexible drape material. 10. The sterile drape of claim 9, wherein the drape is comprised of a material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polyurethane, polycarbonate, and similar elastic durable materials. 11. The sterile drape of claim 9, wherein the flexible exterior surface and the flexible interior surface are coupled to a larger drape. 12. The sterile drape of claim 9, wherein the drape interface includes two attached rings to retain a drape section therebetween. 13. The sterile drape of claim 9, wherein the sterile adaptor further includes a plurality of drape interfaces, with each drape interface adapted to receive an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm. 14. The sterile drape of claim 9, wherein the sterile adaptor includes an electrical contact adapted to interface between an electrical contact on the manipulator arm and an electrical contact on the surgical instrument. 15. A sterile drape to cover a non-sterile portion of a robotic surgical system, the sterile drape comprising: a flexible exterior surface adapted to be positioned adjacent to a sterile field for performing a surgical procedure; a flexible interior surface adapted to receive a non-sterile manipulator arm of the robotic surgical system; and a sterile adaptor including: a rigid exterior surface adapted to couple to a sterile surgical instrument in the sterile field; a rigid interior surface adapted to couple to the non-sterile manipulator arm; and a drape interface having a flexible drape material positionable between a rotatable input of the surgical instrument and a rotatable input of the manipulator arm, the drape interface adapted to transmit torque from the manipulator arm rotatable input to the surgical instrument rotatable input through the flexible drape material, wherein the drape interface includes a rotating disk with an indent for receiving an input of the surgical instrument. 16. A robotic surgical system for performing a procedure within a sterile field, the system comprising: a manipulator arm in a non-sterile field; a surgical instrument in the sterile field; and a sterile drape over the manipulator arm to shield the manipulator arm from the sterile field, the sterile drape including a sterile adaptor having: a rigid exterior surface coupled to the surgical instrument in the sterile field; a rigid interior surface coupled to the manipulator arm in the non-sterile field; and a drape interface having a flexible drape material positioned between a rotatable input of the surgical instrument and a rotatable input of the manipulator arm, the drape interface adapted to transmit torque from the manipulator arm rotatable input to the surgical instrument rotatable input through the flexible drape material. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the surgical instrument is selected from the group consisting of articulated tools with end effectors, such as jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, and clip appliers, and non-articulated tools, such as cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein the drape interface includes a rotating disk with an indent for receiving an input of the surgical instrument. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein the drape interface includes two attached rings to retain a drape section therebetween. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein the sterile adaptor further includes a plurality of drape interfaces, with each drape interface adapted to receive an input of the surgical instrument and an input of the manipulator arm. 