A new and innovative concept for the control of backlash in gear-coupled transmission mechanisms. The concept utilizes redundant unidirectional drives to assure positive coupling of gear meshes at all times. Based on this concept, a methodology for the enumeration of admissible redundant-drive backlash-free robotic mechanisms has been established. Some typical two- and three-DOF mechanisms are disclosed. Furthermore, actuator torques have been derived as functions of either joint torques or end-effector dynamic performance requirements. A redundantly driven gear coupled transmission mechanism manipulator has a fail-safe advantage in that, except of the loss of backlash control, it can continue to function when one of its actuators fails. A two-DOF backlash-free arm has been reduced to practice to demonstrate the principle.
Claims Accordingly, the invention having been described in its best embodiment and mode of operation, that which is desired to be claimed by Letters Patent is: 1. In a multiple degrees of freedom (DOF) transmission system comprising: plural input drive means to effectuate motion of a load; a transmission means for coupling torque between the input drive means and the load by torque transmitting members wherein each input drive means provides torque to at least one joint through a transmission line comprising the torque transmission members; the transmission system having several interconnected links through the joints wherein at least a first moving link is attached to a non-moving frame; and a closed loop controller that controls each of the system's input drive means for a desired operation; wherein the improvement comprises: the number of input drive means mounted on the system is one more than the system's number of DOF; with the closed-loop controller further comprises an adaptive anti-backlash torque command means for control of the system's input drive means whereby each of the system's torque transmitting members are always positively engaged when in an operational state provided the following conditions are met: the torque produced by each of the input drive means operates unidirectionally; with an output of the controller's adaptive anti-backlash torque command means is determined by a summing means of a particular solution vector and a scalar multiple of a homogeneous solution vector wherein: the particular solution is a vector derived from: the system's structural matrix embodying a topology of the torque transmitting members, and a resultant joint torque vector derived from the dynamic equations of motion of the system; and the homogeneous solution is a vector of the unidirectional drive torques which results in no net torque at joints within the transmission system. 2. The transmission system of claim 1 wherein the improvement is used in a two DOF system wherein three of the input unidirectional drive means are mounted on the system's frame. 3. The transmission system of claim 1 wherein the improvement is used in a two DOF system wherein one input unidirectional drive means is mounted on the first moving link and two input unidirectional drive means are mounted on the system's frame. 4. The transmission system of claim 1 wherein the improvement is used in a three DOF system wherein four input unidirectional drive means are mounted on the system's frame. 5. The transmission system of claim 1 wherein the improvement is used in a three DOF system wherein three input unidirectional drive means are mounted on the system's frame and one input unidirectional drive means is mounted on the first moving link. 6. The transmission system of claim 1 wherein the improvement is used in a three DOF system wherein three input unidirectional drive means are mounted on the system's frame and one input unidirectional drive is mounted on a second moving link that is attached to the first moving link through a joint. 7. The transmission system of claim 1 wherein the improvement is used in a three DOF system wherein two unidirectional drive means are mounted on the system's frame and two unidirectional drive means are mounted on the first moving link. 8. The transmission system of claim 1 wherein the improvement is used in a three DOF system wherein two unidirectional drive means are mounted on the system's frame, one unidirectional drive means is mounted on the first moving link and one unidirectional drive means is mounted on a second moving link that is attached to the first moving link through a joint. 9. The transmission system of claim 1 wherein the system is a robotic manipulator. 10. The transmission system of claim 1 wherein the improvement further comprises the controller's adaptive anti-backlash torque command means can be disabled whereby the input drive means produce complementary torques that are additive whereby the system's maximum dynamic performance is enabled. 11. In a multiple degrees of freedom (DOF) transmission system comprising: plural input drive means to effectuate motion of a load; a transmission means for coupling torque between the input drive means and the load by torque transmitting members wherein each input drive means provides torque to at least one joint through a transmission line comprising the torque transmission members; the transmission system having several interconnected links through the joints wherein at least a first moving link is attached to a non-moving frame; and a closed loop controller that controls each of the system's input drive means for a desired operation; wherein the improvement comprises: the number of input drive means mounted on the system is at least one more than the system's number of DOF and at least one of the input drive means effectuates motion of more than one joint in the system; with the closed-loop controller further comprises an adaptive anti-backlash torque command means for control of the system's input drive means whereby each of the system's torque transmitting members are always positively engaged when in an operational state provided the following conditions are met: the torque produced by each of the input drive means operates unidirectionally; with an output of the controller's adaptive anti-backlash torque command means is determined by a summing means of a particular solution vector and scalar multiples of several homogeneous solution vectors wherein: the particular solution is a vector derived from: the system's structural matrix embodying a topology of the torque transmitting members, and a resultant joint torque vector derived from the dynamic equations of motion of the system; and the homogeneous solutions are vectors of the unidirectional drive torques which results in no net torque at joints within the transmission system. 