In a harmonic drive arrangement wherein two relatively rotatable members are provided with oppositely arranged gear structures of different numbers of teeth such that the gear structures define therebetween wedge cavities of circumferentially varying cross sections, engagement balls are disposed in the wedge cavities and a biasing structure extends around the gear structure so as to be adapted to bias the balls sequentially inwardly into said wedge cavities and release them outwardly thereby causing relative motion of the two rotatable members.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A precision indexing table comprising: a support, a table plate rotatably supported on said support, a first gear ring mounted on said support coaxially with the axis of rotation of said table plate, a second gear ring mounted on said table plate coaxially with, and below, said first gear ring, said two gear rings having gear structures of different pitch arranged adjacent one another such that they are rotatable relative to one another and said gear structures further being outwardly inclined relative to one another so as to form therebetween outwardly open spaces, a plurality of balls disposed in said spaces, a rotatable member with a curved ball retaining engaging ring structure supported on said support so as to surround said spaces for retaining said balls in said spaces and in contact with said gear structures thereby providing for firm engagement between the two gear rings and means for rotating said rotatable member for sequentially forcing said balls more or less into said spaces thereby causing movement of the table plate relative to the support while remaining in firm play-free engagement with said support. 2. An indexing table according to claim 1, wherein a drive motor is mounted on said support and provided with a gear structure in driving engagement with said rotatable retaining ball engaging ring structure. 3. An indexing table according to claim 2, wherein said ball engaging ring structure has an inclined eccentric surface adapted to provide for engagement of said balls with said gear structures with a force which depends on the load supported by the table plate. 4. An indexing table according to claim 1, wherein one of said gear rings has one tooth less than the other and said rotatable member having a ball retaning ring structure includes an eccentric circular wall structure engaging said balls so as to cause rotation of said table plate on said support by one tooth-distance upon a full turn of said rotatable member. 5. An indexing table according to claim 1, wherein the teeth have surfaces extending inwardly symmetrically toward each other and form an angle relative to one another which is larger than the self-locking angle of the material of which the teeth and balls are made. 6. An indexing table according to claim 5, wherein the angle of inclination between said teeth is up to 90.degree.. 