The method of making a foamed-in-place gasket comprising mounting a coated release board upon a work support and robotically applying a continuous sealant bead upon the release board in a predetermined pattern corresponding to a pattern of securing engagement of a work piece, such as a window assembly, to a vehicle body. The gasket and release board assemblies may be stacked in cartons and shipped to another location where additional method steps are employed including applying the sealant bead and release board to the work piece with the sealant bead retained in securing engagement with the work piece. Thereafter, the release board is stripped from the sealant bead and the work piece such as a window assembly is secured to the support such as a vehicle body.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of making a foamed-in-place gasket comprising steps of: mounting and locating each of a plurality of coated release boards upon a robotic X-Y table, each release board being sufficiently stiff for packaging without distortion; robotically applying a respective, continuous sealant bead upon each release board in a predetermined pattern corresponding to a pattern of securing engagement of one work piece of a plurality of modular work pieces to a repective support; applying the respective sealant bead and connected release board to said one modular work piece with the respective sealant bead in snug securing engagement with said one modular work piece; packaging a plurality of assemblies of each said respective sealant bead in snug securing engagement with each said one modular work piece, by stacking said plurality of assemblies into a carton for storage and shipping; and successively stripping each release board from each respective sealant bead so as to leave said each respective sealant bead adhered to said each one modular work piece in substantially said pattern of securing engagement. 2. In the method of claim 1, an additional step, before applying sealant bead to the work piece, of wiping selectively a solvent and sealer primer over the mating surface of the work piece so that adhesive of the sealant bead to the work piece is greater than its adhesion to said release board. 3. In the method of claim 1, said work pieces being a modular vehicle window assembly, including window glass, said support being a vehicle body. 4. In the method of claim 1, an additional step, before mounting the release board, of punching a series of accurately located holes through the release board to correspond with the position of locator mount studs upon the work piece. 5. In the method of claim 1, said sealant bead including a foamed hot melt sealant compound. 6. In the method of claim 1, the locating of said release board upon the robotic X-Y table including a pair of right angularly related fixturing stops adjustably positioned upon said table for movements along X and Y axes. 7. In the method of claim 1, an additional step, before mounting the release board, of adhering opposed resilient setting blocks to opposite sides of said release board centrally thereof. 8. In the method of claim 1, said release board having a coating so that the adhesion of the sealant bead to said board is less than its adhesion to said work piece, facilitating the stripping of said release board from said sealant bead. 9. In the method of claim 1, said release board being constructed of a carboard material. 10. In the method of claim 3, a step, before applying the respective sealant bead and connected release board to said one modular work piece, of adhering opposed resilient setting blocks to opposite sides of said release board centrally thereof, said setting blocks protectively and yieldably engaging the window glass of an adjacent stacked release board and window assembly. 11. In the method of claim 3, said vehicle body including a continuous mount flange having a plurality of spaced apertures therethrough; the further step of locating and applying the modular work piece to said mount flange with said sealant bead in continous registry with said mount flange and with said mount studs projected into the corresponding apertures of said vehicle body mount flange for securing thereto; said sealant bead peripherally sealing the modular window to the vehicle body through 360 degrees, excluding moisture, dirt and air transfer. 12. In the method of claim 4, the step of applying the sealant bead and release board including positioning the locator holes in the release board over corresponding mount studs upon the work piece. 13. A method of making a foamed-in-place gasket comprising steps of: mounting and locating each of a plurality of coated release boards upon a robotic X-Y table, each release board being sufficiently stiff for packaging without distortion; robotically applying a respective, continuous sealant bead upon each release board in a predetermined pattern corresponding to a pattern of securing engagement of one work piece of a plurality of modular work pieces to repective support; and packaging a plurality of release boards with applied sealant beads, by stacking said plurality of release boards with applied sealant beads into a carton for storage and shipping. 14. In the method of claim 13, an additional step, before mounting the release board, of punching a series of accurately located holes through the release board to correspond with the position of locator mount studs upon the work piece. 15. In the method of claim 13, said work piece being a modular vehicle window assembly, said support being a vehicle body; said modular window assembly including a frame; and a planar flange upon the frame apertured to receive and retain a window glass, said mount studs defining a continuous attachment area upon said flange, said sealant bead being in a continuous registry with said attachment area. 16. A method of making a foamed-in-place gasket comprising steps of: mounting and locating each of a plurality of coated release boards upon a first support, each release board being sufficiently stiff for packaging without distortion; applying a respective, continous sealant bead upon each release board in a predetermined pattern corresponding to a pattern of securing engagement of one work piece of a plurality of modular work pieces to a respective second support; applying the respective sealant bead and connected release board to said one modular work piece with the respective sealant bead in snug securing engagement with said one modular work piece; packaging a plurality of assemblies of each said respective sealant bead in snug securing engagement with each said one modular work piece, by stacking said plurality of assemblies into a carton for storage and shipping; and successively stripping each release board from each respective sealant bead so as to leave said each respective sealant bead adhered to said each one modular work piece in substantially said pattern of securing engagement. 17. In the method of claim 16, said work piece being a modular vehicle window assembly including window glass, said second support being a vehicle body. 18. In the method of claim 16, an additional step, before mounting the release board, of punching a series of accurately located holes through the release board to correspond with the position of locator mount studs upon the work piece. 19. In the method of claim 17, said vehicle body including a continuous mount flange having a plurality of spaced apertures therethrough; the further step of locating and applying the modular work piece to said mount flange with said sealant bead in continuous registry with said mount flange and with said mount studs projected into the corresponding apertures of said vehicle body mount flange for securing thereto; said sealant bead peripherally sealing the modular window to the vehicle body through 360 degrees, excluding moisture, dirt and air transfer. 20. In the method of claim 16, said work piece being a modular vehicle window assembly, said support being a vehicle body; said modular window assembly including a frame; and a planar flange upon the frame apertured to receive and retain a window glass, said mount studs defining a continuous attachment area upon said flange, said sealant bead being in continuous registry with said attachment area. 21. In the method of claim 17, a step, before applying respective sealant bead and connected release board to said one modular work piece, of adhering opposed resilient setting blocks to opposite sides of said release board centrally thereof, said setting blocks protectively and yieldably engaging the window glass of an adjacent stacked release board and window assembly. 22. In the method of claim 17, the step of applying the sealant bead and release board including positioning the locator holes in the release board over corresponding mount studs upon the work piece. 23. In the method of claim 19, an additional step, before mounting the release board, of punching a series of accurately located holes through the release board to correspond with the position of locator mount studs upon the work piece. 