A method of preparing a reinforcing web for a composite structure. A continuous strand is deposited in a bed of pins according to a desired pattern such as overlapped rows of shingled loops.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A method of producing a nonwoven web comprising: providing a plate having a perforated, elastomeric sheet adhered thereto with deflectible pins resiliently mounted in said perforations, providing a robotized head for depositing a continuous strand in a programmed pattern, wherein said head includes a freely rotatable, strand guiding tube projecting therefrom and terminating in a horn having a curved length, and lowering said horn below the tops of the pins and then depositing said strand from said horn in between said pins according to said programmed pattern. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said head is a block having a passage therethrough and said tube is rotatably mounted in said passage. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said head has an aperture extending therethrough and a driven rotor mounted in said aperture, said rotor having an eccentric passage therethrough, said tube being rotatably mounted in said passage. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the pins are aligned in a plurality of rows and wherein is provided a transfer device for lifting a deposited strand from the bed, said transfer device comprising a plurality of blades and transverse bars holding the blades in space parallelism each blade being adapted for insertion into said bed beneath a deposited pattern, between adjacent rows of pins. 5. A method of preparing a reinforcing web for a composite structure comprising: laying the end of a continuous strand in a bed of densely packed deflectible pins, resiliently mounted in said bed, depositing the strand continuously beneath the tops of said pins by guiding it therethrough according to one or more desired patterns while simultaneously pulling the strand from a package, and then cutting the strand and transferring the web intact for further processing into a composite structure. 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising guiding said strand in a pattern of repeating, closed, geometrical shapes. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising guiding said strand in a pattern of overlapped rows of shingled loops 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising guiding said strand through a freely rotatable tube programmed for movement according to said pattern, said tube terminating in a curved length projecting into said bed of pins. 