A robotic arm for moving product from a first handling station to a second handling station is disclosed. The robotic arm includes a support structure and a driven shaft mounted to the support structure. The driven shaft is adapted for rotation about a first axis. A device is provided for selectively oscillating the shaft through successive, selected arcs of rotation. A crank arm is secured to the driven shaft at a first point such that the crank arm is rotated about the first axis. A linkage member is rotatably secured to the support structure for rotation about a second axis. The linkage member is rotatably secured to the support structure at a first linkage pivot point on the linkage member. The crank arm and the linkage member are interconnected by an elongated boom member having a first end, a cranking point and a product handling end. The boom member is pivotally connected at its first end to the linkage member. The boom member is further pivotally connected at its cranking point to the crank arm. The interrelationship among these members is such that when the crank arm is selectively oscillated, the crank arm causes movement of the product handling end of the boom in a path having an arcuate component and an approximately straight line component for handling product.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic arm for moving product from a first handling location to a second handling location, comprising: (a) a support structure; (b) a driven shaft mounted to the support structure and adapted for rotation about a first axis; (c) means for selectively oscillating the shaft through successive, selected arcs of rotation; (d) a crank arm secured to the driven shaft at a first point such that the crank arm is rotated about the first axis; (e) a linkage member rotatably secured to the support structure for rotation about a second axis, the linkage member being rotatably secured to the support structure at a first linkage pivot point on the linkage member; and (f) an elongated boom member having a first end, a cranking point and a product handling end, the boom member being pivotally connected at its first end to the linkage member at a second linkage pivot point, and further being pivotally connected at its cranking point to the crank arm at a crank point on the crank arm, wherein the first axis of rotation and the second axis of rotation are selectively positioned, and the distances (i) between the first linkage pivot point and the second linkage pivot point; (ii) between the first point of the crank arm and the crank point of the crank arm; (iii) between the first end of the boom and the cranking point of the boom; and (iv) between the cranking point of the boom and the material handling point of the boom are each selectively chosen such that selected oscillation of the crank arm about the first axis of rotation effects movement of the product handling end of the boom in a path having an arcuate component and an approximately straight line component. 2. The robotic arm of claim 1 further comprising a material handling linkage member, operatively mounted to the product handling end of the boom and a means mounted to the material handling linkage member for selectively securing and releasing a product in use. 3. The robotic arm of claim 2 further comprising a means for maintaining the material handling linkage member substantially vertical in use. 4. The robotic arm of claim 1 wherein the means for selectively oscillating the shaft comprises a servo motor adapted to oscillate the shaft through selected arcs of rotation. 5. The robotic arm of claim 1 wherein the means for selectively oscillating the shaft comprises: (a) a means operatively associated with the robotic arm for producing an actuation signal in response to the presence of an article for handling; (b) a servo motor adapted to oscillate the shaft through selected arcs of rotation; and (c) a controller operatively connected to the actuation signal means and servo motor to effect selected oscillation by the servo motor in response to an actuation signal produced by the actuation signal producing means. 