A method for electroless deposition from a deposition solution in a working chamber, where the process can include heating the deposition solution to its boiling point and subsequently reducing the temperature of the deposition solution to a working temperature range that is between approximately 1% and approximately 25% below the boiling point of said solution under a predetermined pressure; and the process also can include heating the deposition solution while filling an enclosed area of the chamber such that the deposition solution reaches its boiling point immediately after the enclosed area is filled.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for electroless deposition of a material in the form a thin film of said material on a substrate from a deposition solution in a working chamber of an electroless deposition apparatus, comprising: placing said substrate into said apparatus; supplying said deposition solution into said apparatus; generating a predetermined pressure in said apparatus; heating said deposition solution in said apparatus to its boiling point and subsequently reducing the temperature of the deposition solution to a working temperature range, wherein the working temperature range spans between approximately 1% and approximately 25% below the boiling point of said solution under said predetermined pressure; conducting said electroless deposition; constantly maintaining said deposition solution within said working temperature range during said electroless deposition; and discontinuing said electroless deposition when said thin film reaches a predetermined thickness. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sealing the apparatus to form the working chamber about the substrate prior to the step of supplying the deposition solution into the apparatus; and forming an additional closed space about the substrate which is smaller than said working chamber and is located inside said working chamber, said electroless deposition being carried out in said additional closed space. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of supplying the deposition solution comprises supplying the deposition solution through a shower-head manifold having a plurality of outlet openings above said substrate. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of supplying the deposition solution comprises supplying the deposition solution through the bottom of said working chamber. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of reducing the temperature of the said deposition solution comprises reducing the temperature of the deposition solution to one or more temperatures between approximately 90.degree. C. and approximately 110.degree. C. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of generating the predetermined pressure comprises generating a pressure between approximately 0.1 atm and approximately 2 atm. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps of generating the predetermined pressure and heating said deposition solution are conducted simultaneously. 8. A method for electrolessly depositing a layer upon a microelectronic topography, comprising: loading the microelectronic topography into an electroless deposition chamber; sealing the electroless deposition chamber to form an enclosed area about the microelectronic topography; pressurizing the enclosed area with a gas while filling the enclosed area with a deposition solution; and heating the deposition solution while filling the enclosed area, wherein the steps of filling the enclosed area, pressurizing the enclosed area and heating the deposition solution are configured such that the deposition solution reaches its boiling point immediately after the enclosed area is filled. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of pressurizing the enclosed area comprises pressurizing the enclosed area to a pressure between approximately 0.1 atm and approximately 2 atm. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising reducing the temperature of the deposition solution to a working temperature range subsequent to the deposition solution reaching its boiling point, wherein the working temperature range spans between approximately 1% and approximately 25% below the boiling point of the deposition solution at said pressure. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising maintaining the deposition solution within the working temperature range while electrolessly depositing a layer upon the microelectronic topography. 12. The method of claim 8, further comprising replenishing the deposition solution within the enclosed area while electrolessly depositing a layer upon the microelectronic topography. 13. The method of claim 8, further comprising forming an additional closed space within the enclosed area about the microelectronic topography, wherein the step of pressurizing the enclosed area while filling the enclosed area with the deposition solution comprises pressurizing the additional closed space while filling the additional closed space. 