An automated multi-purpose analytical chemistry processing center and laboratory work station having a movable table for supporting microtiter plates and other fluid receptacles, a movable arm, and a modular mobile pod affixed for reciprocal movement along the arm. The workstation combines into a single programmable system the capabilities for automation of a wide range of bioanalytical procedure including, not only sample pipetting, serial dilution, reagent additions, mixing, reaction timing and similar known manual procedures, but also programmable spectrophotometric measurements and other physical parameters, further processing based on these measurements and automatic data recording. The work station is adapted to transfer, dispense, and aspirate liquid from one location to another automatically in accordance with user programmed instructions. The work station is capable of measuring physical characteristics of selected samples and performing experimental assays in a closed loop manner in accordance with those measurements. Fluid is dispensed and aspirated using an interchangeable modules having one or a selected plurality of nozzles. Affixed to the modules nozzles are disposable pipettor tips, which are automatically picked up by the pod and ejected by a tip ejector mechanism at the control of the user. Additional modules may be used to perform Measurement Functions. The work station is designed for interactive connection with a remote computer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interchangeable module identification system, for use with an automated analytical chemistry processing system and laboratory work station, said interchangeable module identification system comprising: an automated remotely controllable pod means positionable by a remote controller means about the laboratory work station; at least one module means; said module means being interchangeably connectable with said pod means; said module means having a non-digital network electronically associated with said module means to uniquely identify the module means for the control means. 2. The interchangeable module identification system as in claim 1, including a pulse width modulated means, and said module means uses said non-digital network to control and vary a frequency output signal from said pulse width modulated means. 3. The interchangeable module identification system as in claim 2, wherein the non-digital network which controls and varies the output signal from said pulse width modulated means is a resistor-capacitor network including a capacitor and a resistor in said module means. 4. An automated laboratory work station comprising: a user programmable controller; a pod; at least one module interchangeably and releasably attached to said pod for movement therewith, the module having a passive electronic identification means to uniquely identify the module to the programmable controller upon attachment to the pod; and a robotic means controlled by the programmable controller for positioning the pod with the module relative to a receptacle which contains a sample to carry out an operation with respect to the sample in accordance with user programmed instructions. 5. An automated laboratory work station as in claim 4 wherein the identification means comprises a passive electronic network associated with the module to uniquely identify the module to the programmable controller. 6. An automated laboratory work station as in claim 5 wherein the pod comprises a pulse width modulated means, whereby when the module is attached to the pod the passive network in the module varies a frequency output signal from said pulse width modulated means which uniquely corresponds to said module. 7. An automated laboratory as in claim 6 wherein the passive network comprises a resistor-capacitor circuit which corresponds to a particular time constant for control of the pulse width modulated means. 