A system for handling sheep during automated shearing comprising a multiplicity of trolley/cradles T including rollers 16 and 17 for supporting the sheep, and front leg clamping bars 11 and 12, a head clamping bar 13 and rear clamping bars 20 and 21, each of which is releasably mounted on the trolley in a manner which enables selective release thereof whereby the front legs and head and the rear legs of the sheep and independently manipulatable by manipulating means 31, 40 and 41 located at a shearing station, and means FIG. 1 for transporting each trolley T from a loading station to a shearing station and from the shearing station to an unloading station whereby the sheep may be shorn in an automated manner.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for handling animals such as sheep and goats in the automated treatment of such animals, comprising a multiplicity of animal supporting devices carrying means for supporting the animal and for restraining the front legs, rear legs and head of the animal, each said supporting device being capable of being transported from an animal loading station to a treatment or manipulation station, means at said manipulation station for engaging and manipulating said supporting and restraining means to facilitate treatment of the animal, whereupon the supporting device may be transported with the animal restrained thereon to an unloading station. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein each animal supporting device preferably comprises a pair of spaced generally parallel rollers, frame means having means for supporting said rollers for rotation about their longitudinal axes, said frame means including means by which the supporting device may be transported from said loading station to said treatment or manipulation station, said means for restraining the front legs, rear legs and head of the animal being carried by said frame means in a selectively releasable manner whereby said restraining means may be transferred to the manipulating means at said treatment or manipulation station. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the frame supporting said rollers carries wheels whereby the supporting device defines a trolley, said wheels being formed to engage rails at the treatment or manipulation station whereby the trolley may be accurately positioned at said station. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein each supporting device including a front support assembly and a rear support assembly adjusting carried by said frame means to allow animals of different sizes to be restrained on the device, said front support assembly including said means for restraining the front legs and head of the animal, said rear support assembly including said means for restraining the rear legs of the animal, and drive means associated with said rollers and engagable by drive means provided at said treatment or manipulation station to rotate the rollers during the treatment operation. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the manipulating means at the treatment or manipulation station including a pair of swing arms positioned in use adjacent the head of the animal and having means for selectively engaging each of the means for restraining the front legs and head of the animal whereby the front legs and head of the animal may be independently manipulated during the shearing process, said manipulating means further including rear and manipulating means for engaging each of the rear leg restraining means and for spreading the legs, rotating the legs and for pivoting the rear end portion of the sheep about a generally vertical axis. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein said front support assembly carries said front leg and head restraining means on a rotatable support, and drive means for rotating said support, said support drive means being selectively engageable by said drive means at said treatment or manipulation station to cause rotation of said support during the treatment process. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein said rear end manipulating means includes an arm pivoted about a generally vertical axis adapted to substantially coincide with the ends of the rollers, said arm carrying said engaging means on a sliding carriage which permits longitudinal adjustment of the position of the carriage whereby the legs of the sheep may be stretched, and means for locking said pivoted arm in each desired manipulation position. 8. An animal supporting and transporting cradle comprising a pair of spaced generally parallel rollers, frame means having means for supporting said rollers for rotation about their longitudinal axes, said frame means having means by which said cradle may be transported from a loading station to a treatment or manipulation station, said frame also carrying means for restraining the front legs, rear legs and head of the animal, said front leg and head restraining means being carried by a front support in a selectively releasable manner to enable said front leg and said head restraints to be engaged by manipulating means by which said front legs and head are independently manipulated, said rear leg restraining means being carried by a rear support in a selectively releasable manner whereby said rear leg restraining means may be engaged by a rear leg manipulating means. 9. The cradle of claim 8, wherein said front leg and head restraining means are releasably secured to a support which is rotatably mounted on said front support means, said front support means carrying drive means for rotating said support, and drive means associated with said rollers, both of said drive means being selectively engagable by powered drive means at said treatment or manipulation station. 10. The cradle of claim 8, wherein said roller drive means includes independent drive means for each roller to enable the rollers to be driven in the same or opposite directions. 