A practice for developing data for use in the three-dimensional location of the points on an object surface wherein first and second sensor means are used to cause first and second electromagnetic radiation to be directed at the object surface at first and second directions which are in a common plane.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for use in determining the three-dimensional positions of the points on an object surface comprising: first sensor means for causing first electromagnetic radiation to be directed in a first direction in a first plane over a first path extending in a third direction in said first plane and along said object surface and for collecting along a first axis the first electromagnetic radiation reflected from said object surface, said third direction being transverse to said first direction; and second sensor means for causing second electromagnetic radiation to be directed in a second direction in said first plane over said same first path extending in said third direction in said first plane and along said object surface and for collecting along a second axis the second electromagnetic radiation reflected from said object surface. 2. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising: means responsive to said first and second sensor means for determining the three dimensional positions of points on said object surface. 3. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein: said first and second electromagnetic radiation is optical radiation. 4. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein: the electromagnetic radiation directed by each sensor is at a frequency which is different than the frequencies of the electromagnetic radiation directed by the other sensors; and each sensor is prevented from collecting electromagnetic radiation at the frequencies at which the other sensors direct radiation. 5. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein: said first and second electromagnetic radiation each comprise a beam of electromagnetic radiation; and said first and second sensor means comprise means for translating said first and second sensor means to cause beams of first and second electromagnetic radiation to translate in said third direction in said first plate to cover said first path. 6. Apparatus in accordance with claim 5 wherein: said beam of first electromagnetic radiation is directed and translated and thereafter said beam of second electromagnetic radiation is directed said translated. 7. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein: said first and second electromagnetic radiation each comprise a plane of radiation, said planes of first and second electromagnetic radiation having extent in said first and second directions, respectively, and in said third direction to cover said first path. 8. Apparatus in accordance with claim 7 wherein: said first and second sensor means comprise means for stepping said first and second sensor means to cause said planes of first and second electromagnetic radiation to step in a fourth direction transverse to said third direction, said planes of first and second electromagnetic radiation after being stepped being in a plane parallel to said first plane and covering a further path extending in a direction parallel to said third direction and along said object surface; and said collecting means of said first and second sensor means collect first and second electromagnetic radiation reflected by said object surface when the first and second electromagnetic radiation is directed in the parallel plane. 9. Apparatus is accordance with claim 7 wherein: said plane of first electromagnetic radiation directed and thereafter said plane of second electromagnetic radiation is directed. 10. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein: said first electromagnetic radiation is directed and thereafter said second electromagnetic radiation is directed. 11. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein: said first and second sensor means comprise means for translating said first and second sensor means to cause said first and second electromagnetic radiation to be translated in said third direction to cover said first path. 12. Apparatus in accordance with claim 11 wherein: said first and second sensor means comprise means for stepping said first and second sensor means to cause said first and second electromagnetic radiation to be stepped in a fourth direction transverse to said third direction; and said translating means translates said first and second sensor means to cause said first and second electromagnetic radiation to be translated in a direction parallel to said third direction and in a plane parallel to said first plane over a further path along said object surface after said first and second electromagnetic radiation is stepped by said stepping means; and said collecting means of said first and second sensor means collect the respective first and second electromagnetic radiation reflected by said object surface when the first and second electromagnetic radiation are in said parallel plane. 13. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein: said first sensor means causes said first electromagnetic radiation to be directed over a succession of further paths along said object surface in said first direction in a succession of one or more further planes, respectively, parallel to said first plane, said further paths extending in directions parallel to said third direction, and collects said first electromagnetic radiation reflected during said direction in said succession of one or more further planes; and said second sensor means causes said second electromagnetic radiation to be directed over said same succession of further paths along said object surface in said second direction in said succession of one or more further planes, respectively, and collects said second electromagnetic radiation reflected during said direction in said succession of one or more further planes. 14. Apparatus in accordance with claim 13 wherein: said first and second sensor means further include: translation means for translating said first and second sensor means to cause said first and second electromagnetic radiation to be translated in the respective planes in which they are directed; and stepping means for stepping said first and second sensor means to enable said first and second electromagnetic radiation to be directed in said first plane and succession of one or more further planes. 15. Apparatus in accordance with claim 14 wherein: as said first sensor means is causing said first electromagnetic radiation to be directed in each of said first plane and succession of one or more further planes said second sensor means is causing said second electromagnetic radiation to be directed in a plane of said first plane and succession of one or more further planes which is different from the plane in which said first electromagnetic radiation is being directed. 16. Apparatus in accordance with claim 15 wherein: said first plane and succession of further planes are equally spaced. 17. Apparatus in accordance with claim 16 wherein: said plane in which said second electromagnetic radiation is directed is spaced from the plane in which said first electromagnetic radiation is being directed by a multiple of said equal spacing. 18. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising: additional sensor means for causing respective additional electromagnetic radiation to be directed in respective additional directions which differ from each other and from the first and second directions in said first plane over said same first path extending in said third direction in said first plane and along said object surface and for collecting along axes which differ from each other and from the first and second axes the respective additional electromagnetic radiation reflected from said object surface. 19. Apparatus in accordance with claim 18 wherein: said first, second and additional sensor means further cause their respective electromagnetic radiation to be directed over a succession of further paths along said object in their respective first, second and additional directions in a succession of one or more further planes parallel to said first plane, said further paths extending in directions parallel to said third direction, and collect their respective electromagnetic radiation reflected during said direction in said succession of one or more further planes. 20. Apparatus in accordance with claim 19 wherein: said first, second and additional sensor means cause their respective electromagnetic radiation to be in different ones of said first and succession of one or more further planes at any given time. 21. Apparatus in accordance with claim 19 wherein: said first, second and additional sensor means include translating means for translating said first, second and additional sensor means to cause their respective electromagnetic radiation to translate in the respective planes in which the radiation is directed; and stepping means for stepping the first, second and additional sensor means to enable the respective electromagnetic radiation to be directed in said first plane and succession of one or more further planes. 22. Apparatus in accordance with claim 21 wherein: said translating means translates each said sensor means substantially simultaneously; and said stepping means steps each said sensor means substantially simultaneously. 23. Apparatus in accordance with claim 21 wherein: said translating means and stepping means operate in sequence. 24. Apparatus in accordance with claim 18 wherein: each of said said sensor means comprises: a projector having a projection axis along which the sensor directs its respective electromagnetic radiation; and camera means for collecting the reflected electromagnetic radiation directed by the sensor means and having an optical axis at an angle to the projection axis of the projector of the sensor means. 25. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 wherein: said first sensor means comprises: a first projector having a first projection axis along said first direction; and camera means for collecting said reflected first electromagnetic radiation and having a first optical axis along said first axis and at an angle to said first projection axis; and said second sensor means comprises: a second projector having a second projection axis along said second direction; and a second camera means for collecting said second reflected second electromagnetic radiation and having a second optical axis along said second axis and at an angle to said second projection axis. 26. A method for use in determining the three-dimensional positions of the points on an object surface comprising: directing first electromagnetic radiation in a first direction in a first plane over a first path extending in a third direction in said first plane and along said object surface and collecting along a first axis the first electromagnetic radiation reflected from said object surface, said third direction being transverse to said first direction; directing second electromagnetic radiation in a second direction in said first plane over said same first path extending in said third direction in said plane and along said object surface and collecting from along a second axis the second electromagnetic radiation reflected from said object surface. 27. A method in accordance with claim 26 further comprising: determining the three dimensional positions of points on said object surface from said collected electromagnetic radiation. 28. A method in accordance with claim 26 wherein: said first and second electromagnetic radiation is optical radiation. 29. A method in accordance with claim 26 wherein: the electromagnetic radiation directed along each direction is at a frequency which is different than the frequencies of the electromagnetic radiation directed along the other directions; and collecting of the reflected electromagnetic radiation directed along each direction is exclusive of the collecting of the reflected electromagnetic radiation direction along the other directions. 30. A method in accordance with claim 26 wherein: said first and second electromagnetic radiation each comprise a beam of electromagnetic radiation; and said steps of directing include translating said beams of first and second electromagnetic radiation in said third direction in said first plane to cover said first path. 31. A method in accordance with claim 26 wherein: said first and second electromagnetic radiation each comprise a plane of radiation, said planes of first and second electromagnetic radiation having extent in said first and second directions, respectively, and in said third direction to cover said first path. 32. A method in accordance with claim 31 wherein: said steps of directing include stepping said planes of first and second electromagnetic radiation in a fourth direction transverse to said third direction to a plane parallel to said first plane to cover a further path extending in a direction parallel to said third direction and along said object surface; and said collecting of the reflected first and second electromagnetic radiation includes collecting the first and second electromagnetic radiation reflected by said object surface when the first and second electromagnetic radiation is in the parallel plane. 33. A method in accordance with claim 26 wherein: first steps of directing include translating said first and second electromagnetic radiation in said third direction to cover said first path. 34. A method in accordance with claim 33 wherein: said steps of directing include stepping said first and second electromagnetic radiation in a fourth direction transverse to said third direction; said step of translating includes translating said first and second electromagnetic radiation in a direction parallel to said third direction in a plane parallel to said first plane over a further path along said object surface after said first and second electromagnetic radiation is stepped; and said collecting of said reflected first and second electromagnetic radiation includes collecting the respective first and second electromagnetic radiation reflected by said object surface when the first and second electromagnetic radiation are in said parallel plane. 35. A method in accordance with claim 26 further comprising: directing said first electromagnetic radiation over a succession of further paths along said object surface in said first direction in a succession of one or more further planes parallel to said first plane, said further paths extending in directions parallel to said third direction, and collecting said first electromagnetic radiation reflected during said directing in said succession of one or more further planes; and directing said second electromagnetic radiation over said same succession of further paths along said object surface in said second direction in said succession of one or more further planes and collecting said second electromagnetic radiation reflected during said directing in said succession of one or more further planes. 36. A method in accordance with claim 35 wherein: said steps of directing further include: translating said first and second electromagnetic radiation in the respective planes in which they are directed; and stepping said first and second electromagnetic radiation to enable said first and second electromagnetic radiation to be directed in said first plane and succession of one or more further planes. 37. A method in accordance with claim 26 further comprising: directing respective additional electromagnetic radiation in respective additional directions which differ from each other and from the first and second directions over the same first path extending in said third direction in said first plane and along said object surface and collecting along further axes which differ from each other from said first and second axes the respective additional electromagnetic radiation reflected from said object surface. 38. A method in accordance with claim 37 further comprising: directing said first, second and additional electromagnetic radiation over a succession of one or more second and additional directions in a succession of one or more further planes parallel to said first plant, said further paths extending in directions parallel to said third direction, and collecting the respective electromagnetic radiation reflected during said direction in said succession of one or more further planes. 39. A method in accordance with claim 38 wherein: said first, second and additional electromagnetic radiation is directed in different ones of said first and succession of one or more further planes at any given time. 40. A method in accordance with claim 38 wherein: said steps of directing include translating the respective first, second additional electromagnetic radiation in the respective planes in which the radiation is directed; and stepping the respective first, second and additional electromagnetic radiation to enable the respective electromagnetic to be directed in said first plane and succession of one or more further planes. 41. Apparatus in accordance with claim 1 further comprising: means for effecting relative movement between said object surface and said first and second sensors. 42. Apparatus in accordance with claim 41 wherein: said means for effecting relative movement steps said object surface in a direction transverse to said first plane. 43. A method in accordance with claim 26 further comprising: effecting relative movement between said object surface and said first and second electromagnetic radiation. 44. A method in accordance with claim 43 wherein: said step of effecting relative movement comprises moving said object surface in a direction transverse to said first plane. 45. A method in accordance with claim 37 wherein: the electromagnetic radiation directed along each direction is at a frequency which is different than the frequencies of the electromagnetic radiation directed along the other directions; and collecting of the reflected electromagnetic radiation directed along each direction is exclusive of the collecting of the reflected electromagnetic radiation directed along the other directions. 46. Apparatus in accordance with claim 13 wherein: the electromagnetic radiation directed by each sensor is at a frequency which is different than the frequencies of the electromagnetic radiation directed by the other sensors; and each sensor is prevented from collecting electromagnetic radiation at the frequencies at which the other sensors direct radiation. 47. Apparatus in accordance with claim 18 wherein: the electromagnetic radiation directed by each sensor is at a frequency which is different than the frequencies of the electromagnetic radiation directed by the other sensors; and each sensor is prevented from collecting electromagnetic radiation at the frequencies at which the other sensors direct radiation. 48. Apparatus in accordance with claim 19 wherein: the electromagnetic radiation directed by each sensor is at a frequency which is different than the frequencies of the electromagnetic radiation directed by the other sensors; and each sensor is prevented from collecting electromagnetic radiation at the frequencies at which the other sensors direct radiation. 49. A method in accordance with claim 38 wherein: the electromagnetic radiation directed along each direction is at a frequency which is different than the frequencies of the electromagnetic radiation directed along the other directions; and collecting of the reflected electromagnetic radiation directed along each direction is exclusive of the collecting of the reflected electromagnetic radiation directed along the other directions. 50. A method in accordance with claim 35 wherein: the electromagnetic radiation directed along each direction is at a frequency which is different than the frequencies of the electromagnetic radiation directed along the other directions; and collecting of the reflected electromagnetic radiation directed along each direction is exclusive of the collecting of the reflected electromagnetic radiation directed along the other directions. 