A semiconductor wafer processing station comprising a plasma etching unit, a wet processing spin-spray unit, a robotic wafer transfer arm, and a central control computer all contained in a single housing. The apparatus is designed to perform manufacturing tasks especially related to photoresist processing: photoresist developing, descumming, baking and hardening, and stripping. The apparatus follows preprogrammed instructions which allow the station to automatically perform wafer processing routines by removing wafers from a storage cassette, then transferring the wafers to the processing unit with the robotic arm. Custom processing procedures are programmable, allowing practical small-scale low volume wafer development. Wafer processing routines envisioned include photoresist application and developing, plasma etching and descumming, and procedures involving multiple processing steps utilizing both the plasma/oven unit and the wet chemical spin-spray unit. Such routines would perform precision etching or serve to remove contaminants produced in the photoresist processing procedures.
Claims I claim: 1. A machine for processing individual semiconductor wafers for manufacturing integrated circuits comprising, a housing, enclosing means for transmitting vacuum pressure and a temperature control means, an evacuable plasma etcher mounted in said housing in communication with the vacuum pressure transmission means and having a front panel with a sealable door therein accessible from outside of the housing, said etcher having a wafer support means therein in communication with said temperature control means, adjusting temperature over a range of temperatures, a robot arm located partially outside of said housing, having a reach extending through said door to proximity with the wafer support, a spin-spray processing unit located partially within said housing and within the reach of the robot arm, said spin-spray processing unit having a rotating wafer support therein and having a door of a size allowing said robot arm to pass therethrough, a wafer supply means mounted to the housing within the reach of the robot arm, and a programmable controller means for commanding said robot arm to move wafers between said plasma etcher, said spin spray processing unit and said wafer supply means whereby processes for establishing layers on semiconductor wafers may be repetitively carried out within a limited space. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said housing has an upright portion and a desktop portion in an x,y plane, said desktop portion having said robot arm extending therethrough. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said robot arm has parallel axes for arm motion in said x,y plane, said arm being translatable along one of said axes for z direction motion where said z direction is perpendicular to said x,y plane. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said temperature control means for said plasma etcher can follow an exponential temperature gradient. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said spin-spray processing unit has separate means for spraying chemicals and rinse water. 6. An automated wafer processing station comprising, a housing; a plasma etching unit located in said housing having an evacuable chamber, means for holding a wafer, a sealable door, plasma generating means, chamber temperature control means and a control input; a spin-spray processing unit located in said housing having a wet-processing enclosure, a rotatable vacuum chuck to hold a wafer, fluid direction means for affecting fluid flow within the enclosure, a sealable door, and a control input; a wafer storage-cassette stand mounted on said housing for supporting a supply of wafers stored in a cassette, said cassette providing one or more wafers for processing; a robot arm positioned on said housing in a location allowing access to said plasma etching unit, said spin-spray processing unit, and said storage cassette stand; said robot arm having a control input, means for securing a wafer, and means for transporting said secured wafer within a volume defined by the robot arm reach; programmable station control means, having an input and command outputs connected to the control inputs of the robot arm, the spin-spray unit, and the plasma etching unit, for providing command information to coordinate processing procedures performed by the wafer processing station, said station control means being located within said housing. 7. The station of claim 6 wherein the housing has an upright portion and a horizontal desktop portion. 8. The station of claim 6 wherein said chamber temperature control means is a heatable wafer chuck. 9. The station of claim 6 wherein said chamber temperature control means is an array of heating lamps. 10. The station of claim 6 wherein the robot arm has mobility in three dimensions. 11. The station of claim 6 wherein the station control means provides instructional code command output signals for the repetitive execution of sequential processing operations for a plurality of wafers. 12. The station of claim 6 wherein said fluid direction means comprises a plurality of nozzles for spraying wet chemicals and gases onto a wafer surface. 13. The station of claim 6 wherein said robot arm is mounted partially within said housing. 14. The station of claim 7 wherein the programmable station control means comprises a computer located within said housing and having an operator input keyboard, an output display monitor, located on the upright portion of said housing, and a command output connected to the control inputs of the plasma etch unit, the spin-spray unit, and the robot arm. 15. An apparatus for automatically performing processing procedures on semiconductor wafers used in the manufacture of integrated circuits comprising, a housing, enclosing fluid control means and means for producing a vacuum; a wafer storage-cassette stand mounted on said housing for supporting a supply of wafers stored in a cassette, said storage-cassette providing one or more wafers for processing; a robot arm located on said housing so as to allow said robot arm access to wafers in said storage-cassette, said robot arm having a control interface, means for securing a wafer, and transport means for positioning said wafer in locations within the volume circumscribed by robot arm reach; a plasma etching unit positioned on said housing and within robot arm reach, said plasma etching unit having an evacuable chamber with a door capable of an airtight seal, a wafer holding device for maintaining a wafer's position within the chamber, heating means within the chamber for affecting the temperature within the chamber, means for controlling the gaseous contents of the chamber, plasma generating means, and a control interface; a spin-spray processing unit positioned on said housing and within robot arm reach, said spin-spray unit having a wet-processing enclosure, a rotatable vacuum chuck within said wet-processing enclosure, a fluid delivery means for transporting one or more fluids to said wet-processing enclosure, fluid directing nozzles to control dispersion of said fluids within said wet-processing enclosure, fluid removing means for draining fluids from said wet-processing enclosure, means for directing gases within said wet-processing enclosure, a control interface; programmable control means located in said housing and being connected to the control interface of said robot arm, said spin-spray processing unit, and said plasma etching unit for monitoring and commanding the coordinated operation of the robot arm, the spin-spray processing unit and the plasma etching unit, said control means having an operator instruction input and display means for providing operator information. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said housing has an upright section and a desktop section. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said robot arm and said spin-spray processing unit are mounted on the desktop section of said housing, and the plasma etching unit is located within the upright section of said housing. 18. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the fluid delivery means and fluid directing nozzles are capable of handling reactive chemical solutions, water, and gases. 19. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the operator instruction input is a keyboard and the display means is a monitor. 