A method for preparing a needled preform comprises transporting, cutting and needling a textile tape. The method further comprises cutting through a portion of the textile tape with a cutting device. The textile tape remains substantially contiguous after the cutting. The method further comprises needling the textile tape into a needled preform after cutting the textile tape, and the needling utilizes needles having working surfaces oriented in a direction to transfer fiber segments from a selected fiber orientation into a z-direction. In an embodiment, a system for enabling z-fiber transfer in a textile tape comprises a textile support configured to transport the textile tape, a cutting device configured to cut a portion of the textile tape, and a needling device configured to needle the textile tape into a needled preform after the cutting device cuts the textile tape.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for preparing a needled preform comprising: transporting a textile tape, wherein the textile tape comprises substantially continuous textile fibers, the textile tape being defined by a width and a thickness; cutting through at least one of: a portion of the width of the textile tape, and a portion of the thickness of the textile tape, wherein the textile tape remains substantially contiguous after the cutting; and needling the textile tape into the needled preform after the cutting. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the cutting occurs at least one of before, after, and while the textile tape is moving along a textile transport of a needle loom. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the textile tape comprises at least one of: oxidized polyacrylonitrile fibers, carbonized polyacrylonitrile fibers, stabilized pitch fibers, ceramic precursor fibers, or substantially pure carbon fibers. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the cutting occurs across an entirety of the width and only a portion of the thickness. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the cutting occurs across an entirety of the thickness and only a portion of the width. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein both the cutting of the textile tape and the needling of the textile tape occur in a needle-loom bed plate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the cutting comprises utilizing a cutting device, wherein the cutting device physically contacts the textile tape. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the cutting comprises utilizing a cutting device, wherein the cutting device includes a laser. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the textile tape is transported circularly in a horizontal plane and the laser is displaced in a plane different from the horizontal plane. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the substantially continuous textile fibers are interconnected by at least one of interlacing and stitching. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the substantially continuous textile fibers further comprise a predetermined degree of twist between the substantially continuous textile fibers in a specific direction. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the cutting comprises at least one of: selecting a fiber orientation to enhance composite properties of the textile tape; and selecting a plurality of cuts across a fiber orientation within the textile tape to enhance properties of a composite. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the cutting comprises utilizing a cutting device, wherein the cutting device cuts diagonally across the textile tape as the textile tape travels along a first axis while the cutting device moves across a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting a fabric architecture of the textile tape to preferentially cut predetermined fibers. 15. A method for enabling z-fiber transfer in a textile tape comprising: transporting the textile tape, wherein the textile tape comprises substantially continuous textile fibers, wherein the textile tape is formed of substantially pure carbon fibers, the textile tape being defined by a width and a thickness; cutting through at least one of: a portion of the width of the textile tape, and a portion of the thickness of the textile tape, wherein the textile tape remains substantially contiguous after the cutting; and needling the textile tape having fiber segments into a needled preform, wherein the needling comprises utilizing needles having working surfaces oriented to transfer fiber segments from a first fiber orientation into a z-direction. 16. A system for enabling z-fiber transfer in a textile tape comprising: a textile support configured to transport the textile tape, wherein the textile tape comprises a plurality of substantially continuous fibers, the textile tape being defined by a width and a thickness; a cutting device configured to cut through at least one of: a portion of the width of the textile tape, and a portion of the thickness of the textile tape, wherein the textile tape remains substantially contiguous after the cutting; and a needling device configured to needle the textile tape into a needled preform after the cutting device cuts the textile tape. 17. The system of claim 16, further comprising a feedback system configured to recognize patterns on the textile tape and generate a cutting path for the cutting device to follow. 18. The system of claim 16, wherein the textile tape comprises greater than or equal to about 90 wt % carbon. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein a percentage of weight of fiber segments to an overall weight of the textile tape is between about 5% and about 35%. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein the needling device comprises needles having working surfaces oriented in a direction to transfer fiber segments from a selected fiber orientation into a z-direction. 