Technologies are generally described for interpretation of constrained objects in augmented reality. An example system may comprise a processor, a memory arranged in communication with the processor, and a display arranged in communication with the processor. An example system may further comprise a sensor arranged in communication with the processor. The sensor may be effective to detect measurement data regarding a constrained object. The sensor may be configured to send the measurement data to the processor. The processor may be effective to receive the measurement data, determine a model for the object, and process the measurement data to produce weighted measurement data. The processor may also be effective to apply a filter to the model and to the weighted measurement data to produce position information regarding the object, which may be utilized to generate an image based on the position information. The display may be effective to display the image.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for interpreting a constrained object in an augmented reality, the method comprising: receiving measurement data from a sensor with a processor, wherein the measurement data is associated with the constrained object; determining a model for the constrained object with the processor; processing the measurement data with the processor to produce weighted measurement data; and applying a filter to one or more of the model and/or to the weighted measurement data with the processor to produce position information regarding the constrained object. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising generating an image of the constrained object, by the processor, based on the position information. 3. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising displaying the image of the constrained object on a display. 4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the sensor is a first sensor and the method further comprises receiving image data from a second sensor by the processor. 5. The method as recited in claim 4, wherein determining the model includes determining the model based on the image data. 6. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein determining the model based on the image data includes applying an object recognition algorithm with the processor. 7. The method as recited in claim 4, wherein the first and second sensors are different from one another. 8. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein determining the model includes receiving an input, wherein the input is associated with a user. 9. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein applying the filter comprises: for each particular measurement in the measurement data: determining whether a corresponding constraint exists in the model, and when a corresponding constraint is determined to exist in the model, adding a weighted particular measurement to the corresponding constraint; and for each particular constraint in the model, determining whether a corresponding measurement exists in the measurement data, and when a corresponding measurement is determined to exist in the measurement data, adding a weighted corresponding measurement to the particular constraint. 10. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein the image is based on the model and the image data. 11. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the filter is one or more of a Kalman filter, an extended Kalman filter, or a particle filter. 12. The method as recited in claim 1, the method further comprising propagating the position information using the model by the processor to determine additional position information about a first component of the constrained object, wherein the additional position information relates to a second component of the constrained object. 13. A device for interpreting a constrained object in augmented reality, the device comprising: a memory; and a processor arranged in communication with the memory, wherein the processor is configured to: receive measurement data from a sensor regarding the constrained object; determine a model for the constrained object; process the measurement data to produce weighted measurement data; apply a filter to the model and to the weighed measurement data to produce position information regarding the constrained object; and store the position information in the memory. 14. The device as recited in claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to generate an image of the constrained object based on the position information. 15. The device as recited in claim 14, further comprising a display arranged in communication with the processor, wherein the display is configured to display the image of the constrained object. 16. The device as recited in claim 13, wherein the sensor is a first sensor, and wherein the processor is configured to receive image data from a second sensor. 17. The device as recited in claim 16, wherein the first and second sensors are different from one another. 18. The device as recited in claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to: for each particular measurement in the measurement data determine whether a corresponding constraint exists in the model, and when a corresponding constraint is determined to exist in the model, add a weighted particular measurement to the corresponding constraint; and for each constraint in the model, determine whether a corresponding measurement exists in the measurement data, and when a corresponding measurement is determined to exist in the measurement data, add a weighted corresponding measurement to the particular constraint. 19. The device as recited in claim 15, wherein the image is based on the model and the image data. 20. A system for interpreting a constrained object in augmented reality, the system comprising: a processor; a memory arranged in communication with the processor; a display arranged in communication with the processor; and a sensor arranged in communication with the processor, the sensor effective to detect measurement data regarding the constrained object, the sensor effective to send the measurement data from the sensor to the processor; wherein the processor is configured to receive the measurement data, determine a model for the constrained object, process the measurement data to produce weighted measurement data, apply a filter to the model and to the weighted measurement data to produce position information regarding the constrained object, store the position information in the memory, and generate an image based on the position information; and the display is effective to display the image. 21. The system as recited in claim 20, wherein the sensor is a first sensor and the system further comprises a second sensor arranged in communication with the processor, wherein the second sensor is configured to receive image data and send the image data from the second sensor to the processor. 22. The system as recited in claim 21, wherein the first and second sensors are different from one another. 23. The system as recited in claim 21, wherein the processor is further configured to: for each particular measurement in the measurement data determine whether a corresponding constraint exists in the model, and when a corresponding constraint is determined to exist in the model, add a weighted particular measurement to the corresponding constraint; for each particular constraint in the model, determine whether a corresponding measurement exists in the measurement data, and when a corresponding measurement is determined to exist in the measurement data, add a weighted corresponding measurement to the particular constraint. 24. A method for interpreting a constrained object in augmented reality, the method comprising: detecting measurement data regarding the constrained object at a sensor; sending the measurement data from the sensor to a processor; receiving the measurement data by the processor; determining a model for the constrained object by the processor; processing the measurement data with the processor to produce weighted measurement data; applying a filter, by the processor, to the model and to the weighted measurement data to produce position information regarding the constrained object; generating an image based on the position information by the processor; sending the image from the processor to a display; receiving the image at the display; and displaying the image on the display. 25. The method as recited in claim 24, wherein the sensor is a first sensor and the method further comprises receiving image data from a second sensor by the processor. 26. The method as recited in claim 25, wherein the first and second sensors are different from one another. 27. The method as recited in claim 24, wherein applying the filter includes: for each particular measurement in the measurement data determining whether a corresponding constraint exists in the model, and when a corresponding constraint is determined to exist in the model, adding a weighted particular measurement to the corresponding constraint; and for each particular constraint in the model, determining whether a corresponding measurement exists in the measurement data, and when a corresponding measurement is determined to exist in the measurement data, adding a weighted corresponding measurement to the particular constraint. 28. The method as recited in claim 24, wherein when the model includes a constraint with an inequality defining a space, the method further comprises: adding a parameter to the constraint with the inequality to produce an equality constraint; applying the filter to the equality constraint and to the weighted measurement data to produce additional position information regarding the constrained object; and determining whether the additional position information falls within the space. 29. The method as recited in claim 24, wherein the image is based on the model and the image data. 30. A non-transitory computer storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereon which, when executed by a computing device, adapt the computing device to perform a method for interpreting a constrained object in augmented reality, the method comprising: receiving measurement data from a sensor with a processor, wherein the measurement data is associated with the constrained object; determining a model for the constrained object by the processor; processing the measurement data to produce weighted measurement data by the processor; and applying a filter, by the processor, to the model and to the weighted measurement data to produce position information regarding the constrained object. 31. The storage medium as recited in claim 30, wherein the method further comprises generating an image of the constrained object, by the processor, based on the position information, and displaying the image of the constrained object on a display. 