The invention provides a method and apparatus for picking a separated semiconductor die 128 from a wafer and placing it on a die attach pad 144 for bonding thereto. In a preferred embodiment, the apparatus comprises a die collet having a body 124 with a proximal end 123 and a distal end 125; at least one pair of spaced-apart walls 136 extending distally from the distal end of the body and having opposing faces 181 defining an aperture 126, the faces of the walls being sloped such that a distal portion of the aperture is wider than the die and a proximal portion of the aperture is narrower than the die; a recess 152 on the faces of the walls extending substantially the length of the die, the recess having a distally-facing surface 154 for contacting at least a portion of the top side 138 of the die; and means for holding the die in the aperture, usually including a vacuum port 128. The method comprises providing a collet like the aforementioned; positioning the aperture 126 over a die 120; exerting a vacuum pressure through the vacuum port 128 to retain the die in the aperture such that a portion of the top side contacts the distally-facing surface 154 of the recess 152; positioning the die over the pad 144 such that the bottom side of the die is parallel to the pad; and discontinuing the vacuum pressure to release the die from the aperture.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A collet for placing a prefabricated electronic sub-assembly on an attachment surface, said subassembly comprising a substrate having a bottom side for attaching to said attachment surface and a top side opposite said bottom side, and at least one die mounted on said top side of said substrate, said collet comprising: a body having a proximal end and a distal end; a first surface recessed in said distal end, said first surface having a configuration to receive said top surface of said substrate, whereby said bottom side of said substrate is maintained in a plane parallel to said attachment surface; a second surface recessed in said distal end spaced from and parallel with said first surface to accommodate said die mounted on said substrate; at least one pair of spaced-apart walls extending from said distal end of said body, said walls having opposing faces defining an aperture into which said top surface of said substrate extends, whereby said sub-assembly is maintained in a position relative to said body in at least one direction parallel to said attachment surface; and means disposed at said distal end of said body for holding said subassembly. 2. The collet as in claim 1, wherein said first recessed surface extends substantially the length of said substrate. 3. The collet of claim 1 wherein said means for holding comprises a vacuum port disposed in said distal end of said body between said walls for exerting a vacuum pressure in said aperture. 4. The collet of claim 1 further comprising a second pair of spaced apart walls perpendicular to said first pair, said two pairs of walls defining a four-sided aperture. 5. The collet of claim 1, wherein a portion of said first surface is receded, whereby contact between said first surface and said substrate at edges surrounding said substrate is minimized. 6. The collet of claim 5, wherein said recessed portion of said first surface is at least partially round in cross-section. 7. The collet of claim 1, wherein said first pair of walls is perpendicular to said first recessed surface, said walls extending distally from said first surface. 8. A collet for placing a prefabricated electronic sub-assembly on an attachment surface, said sub-assembly comprising a bottom die having a bottom side for attaching to said attachment surface and a top side opposite said bottom side, a substrate having a bottom side and a top side, said bottom side of said substrate attached to said top side of said bottom die, and a top die mounted on said top surface of said substrate, the collet comprising: a body having a proximal end and a distal end; a first surface recessed in said distal end, said first surface having a configuration to receive said top surface of said bottom die, whereby said bottom side of said bottom die is maintained in a plane parallel to said attachment surface; a second surface recessed in said distal end spaced from and parallel with said first surface to accommodate said substrate and said top die; at least one pair of spaced-apart walls extending from said distal end of said body, said walls having opposing faces defining an aperture into which said top surface of said bottom die extends, whereby said sub-assembly is maintained in a position relative to said body in at least one direction parallel to said attachment surface; and means disposed at said distal end of said body for holding said sub-assembly. 9. The collet as in claim 8, wherein said first recessed surface extends substantially the length of said substrate. 10. The collet of claim 8 wherein said means for holding comprises a vacuum port disposed in said distal end of said body between said walls for exerting a vacuum pressure in said aperture. 11. The collet of claim 8 further comprising a second pair of spaced apart walls perpendicular to said first pair, said two pairs of walls defining a four-sided aperture. 12. The collet of claim 8, wherein a portion of said first surface is receded, whereby contact between said first surface and said bottom die at edges surrounding said bottom die is minimized. 13. The collet of claim 12, wherein said recessed portion of said first surface is at least partially round in cross-section. 14. The collet of claim 8, wherein said first pair of walls are perpendicular to said first recessed surface, said walls extending distally from said first surface. 