A circuit board assembly system is disclosed. One aspect of the system is the robotic end effector for gripping and inserting each component into the circuit board. The end effector includes a compliance mechanism which compensates for variations in body-to-lead configurations to permit components to be precisely placed without damage to the component body or leads. Another aspect of the system is a programmable lead clinching system for clinching leads of each component as the component is inserted into the circuit board. The clinching system includes a clinch element and a drive system for driving the clinch element through a predetermined series of strokes to clinch the component leads. The system further includes a component presentation module, with a plurality of component feeder devices for feeding a number of different component types, and a presentation robot for sequentially selecting each component to be inserted in the board and delivering the component to a part presentation station. The system further includes a component lead straightening and cutting system. This latter system operates in combination with the presentation robot to straighten the leads of each component and cut the leads to a predetermined length. The disclosed system provides a flexible component insertion capability for inserting a wide variety of component types into different types of circuit boards. The system is reconfigurable to a different product without substantial mechanical retooling.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for active clinching of component leads after insertion thereof from an upper side of a circuit board and through apertures in the board to extend from the lower surface thereof, comprising: a clinching element for contracting and bending said leads; means for driving said clinching element through a programmably determined path of travel substantially within a plane adjacent said lower surface in response to control signals to contact and bend one or more leads of said component adjacent said lower surface of said board; programmable controller means adapted to provide control signals to said drive means so as to pass said clinching element through a programmably determined sequence of movements substantially within said plane to contact and bend one or more leads of said component to secure said component in its inserted position, and wherein the clinching element effects the bending of a lead by running into the lead during the course of its programmably determined travel. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said clinching element comprises a rounded clinch tool whose size is proportioned in relation to the component lead size and spacing so as to provide the capability of clinching a single component lead during a clinch movement. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising means for positioning said clinching element at a clinch position directly adjacent the lower surface for contacting and bending said leads, or at a retracted position disposed well apart from the lower surface so as to not contact downwardly extending leads. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said drive means is adapted to programmably drive said clinch element in lateral and longitudinal directions within said plane, and said drive means comprises a first drive means for driving said clinch element in the lateral direction, and a second drive means for driving said clinch element in said longitudinal direction. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said first and second axis define said plane which is substantially parallel to the lower side of said printed circuit board. 6. A robotic component insertion system for assembly of electrical components to printed circuit boards, comprising: an insertion station for securing at least one circuit board in a predetermined board position; programmable insertion robot means for gripping said components and inserting them into predetermined locations in said circuit board; and clinching means for clinching one or more leads of the components after said leads of each component have been inserted from a first side of said board through apertures in the board to extend from a second surface thereof, comprising: a clinch element for contacting and bending said leads; programmable drive means for driving said clinch element through a programmable clinch movement sequence substantially within a plane adjacent said second surface in response to control signals for blending at least one lead of the inserted component as it is gripped by the robot means in the inserted position; and programmable controller means for providing control signals to said drive means so as to pass said clinching element through a programmably determined sequence of movements substantially within said plane to contact and bend one or more leads of said component to secure said component in its inserted position, wherein the clinching element effects the bending of a lead by running into the lead during the course of its programmably determined travel. 7. The invention of claim 6 wherein said programmable drive means comprises first means for driving said clinch element throughout said programmable clinch movement sequence in said plane disposed substantially parallel to and adjacent said second surface of said circuit board, and said second drive means for selectively extending the clinch element from a retracted position in relation to said second surface of said circuit board to a clinch position directly adjacent said second surface for contacting and bending said leads. 8. The invention of claim 6 further comprising a component presentation station, and wherein said robot means comprises means for sequentially gripping components presented at said presentation stage and inserting such components into the printed circuit board at predetermined locations. 9. The invention of claim 8 wherein said programmable robot further comprises an end effector attached to a robot arm for gripping such components, the end effector comprising: (i) gripping means for gripping such components; and (ii) compliance means for coupling said gripping means to said robot arm, said compliance means selectively operable in a first state wherein the location of said gripping means is movable through a predetermined range of movement with respect to the robot arm and in a second state wherein the lateral location of said gripping mechanism is substantially fixed with respect to said robot arm. 10. The invention of claim 6 further comprising a transport means for transporting a printed circuit board to said insertion station and locating said printed circuit board at a predetermined location with respect to said insertion robot means. 11. The invention of claim 10 wherein said transport means comprises a motor driven conveyor system which is adapted to convey said circuit board to said insertion station in response to motor drive signals. 12. The invention of claim 11 further comprising central controller means adapted to control the operation of said transport means, said insertion robot means and said clinching means. 13. In a component insertion system, the improvement comprising: component feeder means for storing a plurality of components; robot means for sequentially picking up components from said component feeder means and delivering said components to a presentation station, said robot means comprising a robot controller for controlling the operation of said robot means; lead straightening plate disposed at said presentation station, said plate having an opening pattern defined therein in correspondence with the lead pattern of the component; said robot comprising means for inserting the component leads into said opening pattern of said plate, and thereafter, with said plate fixedly positioned, moving the component body through a predetermined series of oscillatory movements so as to respectively exercise the component leads to substantially straighten the leads. 14. The invention of claim 13 wherein said opening pattern formed in said lead straightening plate is adapted to accommodate the respective lead patterns of a plurality of component types. 15. The invention of claim 13 wherein said robot means is adapted to select one of a plurality of types of components available at said feeder means, and wherein said series of oscillatory movements is adapted to the selected type of component. 16. The invention of claim 13 further comprising cutting means for cutting the leads of the selected component to a predetermined length. 17. The invention of claim 16 wherein said cutting means comprises: a shear plate disposed in sliding relation with said straightening plate, said shear plate including an opening pattern corresponding to the opening pattern formed in said straightening plate; means for disposing said shear plate in an aligned position relative to said straightening plate so that the corresponding hole patterns in each plate are aligned; means for exerting a sliding shear force on said shear plate so as to shear the component leads extending into the opening pattern formed in said shear plate. 18. A robotic component insertion system, comprising: an insertion station; circuit board transferring and locating system for transferring a circuit board to said insertion station at a predetermined reference position; a component presentation station; a plurality of component feeder devices for feeding a plurality of types of components; presentation robot means for sequentially selecting predetermined ones of said components from said feeder devices and delivering the selected components to said presentation station; insertion robot means for sequentially picking up said selected components at said presentation station and inserting said selected components at predetermined locations on said board; and active clinching means for clinching leads of said selected components to said board after insertion of said leads through an aperture pattern in said board to extend from a surface of said board, said means comprising: an active clinching element for contacting and bending said leads; programmable drive means for actively driving said clinch element through a programmable clinch movement sequence substantially within a plane adjacent said board surface in response to control signals for bending at least one lead of the inserted component as it is gripped by said insertion robot means in the inserted position; and programmable controller means adapted to provide control signals to said drive means so as to pass said clinching element through a programmably determined sequence of movements substantially within said plane to contact and bend one or more leads of said component to secure said component in its inserted position, wherein the clinching element effects the bending of a lead by running into the lead during the course of its programmably determined travel. 19. The system of claim 18 further comprising lead straightening means for straightening the leads of said selected components before insertion into said circuit board. 20. The system of claim 19 further comprising cutting means for cutting the leads of said selected components to a predetermined length prior to insertion in said circuit board. 21. The system of claim 18 further comprising programmable system controller for controlling said presentation and insertion robot means and said clinching means. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein said system controller means comprises memory means for storing data representative of the components to be inserted into said board, the sequence in which said components are to be inserted and the respective positions at which said components are to be inserted. 23. The system of claim 22 wherein said system controller memory means is further adapted to store clinch data for the respective components to be inserted in said board, said clinch data including data defining the predetermined clinch system movement required to clinch the leads of such components. 24. The system of claim 22 wherein said memory means further comprises data indicative of the positions of the respective feeder means. 25. In a robotic component insertion system for inserting in circuit boards a plurality of different types of electrical components having at least one lead depending from the component body, wherein the system includes an insertion station, a presentation station, a plurality of component feeder devices disposed at predetermined locations, a presentation robot for sequentially selecting predetermined ones of the components from the feeder devices and delivering the components to the presentation station, a lead straightening plate disposed at the presentation station having an opening pattern defined therein in correspondence with the lead pattern of the respective components, and an insertion robot for sequentially gripping the selected components at the insertion station and inserting the selected components at predetermined locations on the circuit board, a method for inserting said components into said circuit board, comprising a sequence of the following steps: securing the printed circuit board at said insertion station; using the presentation robot to sequentially select predetermined components from said feeder devices and present the selected components to said presentation station, insert the leads of the component in the corresponding openings of the lead straightening plate, move the component body through a predetermined series of oscillatory movements with the leads so inserted so as to respectively exercise and thereby substantially straighten the component leads, and thereafter release the component at said presentation station; using the insertion robot to sequentially pick up said selected components at said presentation station in coordination with said presentation robot means, and thereafter to insert the selected component at a predetermined location in the board; and actively clinching the leads of the inserted component while gripped by the insertion robot. 26. The system of claim 3 wherein said means for positioning said clinching element comprises means for extending and retracting said element along a clinching axis extending substantially perpendicular to said lower surface, and wherein said positioning means is controlled by said programmable controller means. 27. The system of claim 26 wherein said positioning means comprises a cylinder and piston assembly, said assembly mounted for piston travel along said axis, and said clinching element being carried by said piston. 28. The system of claim 5 further comprising means for positioning said clinching element at a clinch position directly adjacent the lower surface for contacting and bending said leads, or at a retracted position disposed well apart from the lower surface so as not to contact downwardly extending leads. 29. The system of claim 28 wherein said means for positioning said clinching element comprises means for extending and retracting said element along a clinching axis extending substantially perpendicular to said lower surface, and wherein said positioning means is controlled by said programmable controller means. 30. The system of claim 29 wherein said positioning means comprises an cylinder and piston assembly, said assembly mounted for piston travel along said axis, and said clinching element being carried by said piston. 31. The system of claim 1 wherein a computer programmed with data defining the particular movement sequence through which said clinching element is to be driven for a particular circuit board and the particular components to be inserted in said board. 32. The system of claim 5 wherein said drive means comprises: an upper carriage assembly supported for lateral movement by a lateral support element having first and second ends; first and second opposed longitudinal support elements; first and second lower carriage assemblies, said first end of said lateral support element mounted in said first lower assembly and said second end of said support element mounted in said second lower assembly; said first lower carriage assembly carried for longitudinal movement on said first longitudinal support element; said second lower carriage assembly carried for longitudinal movement on said second longitudinal support element; said first drive means for driving said upper carriage assembly in said lateral direction along the lateral extent of said lateral support element; and said second drive means for driving said first and second lower assemblies in said longitudinal direction along the longitudinal extents of said longitudinal support elements. 33. The invention of claim 17 wherein said means for exerting a sliding shear force on said shear plate comprises a pneumatic cylinder and piston assembly. 34. The system of claim 18 wherein said presentation robot means is capable of controlled movement along each of the orthogonal X, Y and Z axes, and said component feeder devices comprise a plurality of tube feeders, each for storing a plurality of components having in-line leads and presenting one of said stored components at a corresponding feeder pickup location which is directly accessible by said presentation robot independent of the others of said tube feeders. 35. The system of claim 34 wherein said tube feeder devices are disposed at an angle with respect to the horizontal to provide for gravity feeding of successive components therefrom, and said tube feeders each further comprises a retaining means for retaining the next available component at said pickup location until said feeder device is accessed by said presentation robot. 36. The system of claim 35 wherein said presentation robot comprises an end effector having a pair of gripping jaws, and means of controlling the attitude of said jaws relative to the horizontal to a first attitude aligned with said tube feeder for gripping said components at said pickup locations and to a second attitude aligned with the horizontal to deliver said components to said presentation station. 37. A robotic component insertion system, comprising: an insertion station at which a circuit board is located; a component presentation station; a plurality of component tube feeder devices for feeding a plurality of types of components, each for storing a plurality of components having in-line leads and presenting one of said stored components at a corresponding feeder pickup location which is directly accessible independent of the feeder locations of the other tube feeders; presentation robot means comprising means for controlled movement along each of the orthogonal X, Y and Z axes for sequentially picking up said selected components from said feeder devices at said respective feeder pickup locations and delivering said selected components to said presentation station; and insertion robot means for sequentially picking up said components at said presentation station and inserting said components at predetermined locations in said circuit board. 38. The system of claim 37 wherein said tube feeder devices are disposed at an angle with respect to the horizontal to provide for gravity feeding of successive components therefrom, and said tube feeders each further comprises a retaining means for retaining the next available component at said pickup location until said feeder device is accessed by said presentation robot. 39. The system of claim 38 wherein said presentation robot comprises an end effector having a pair of gripping jaws, and means for controlling the attitude of said jaws relative to the horizontal to a first attitude aligned with said tube feeders for gripping said components at said pickup locations and to a second attitude aligned with the horizontal to deliver said components to said presentation station. 40. The system of claim 1 further comprising tactile sensing means for detecting whether a lead has been successfully clinched and providing an output signal to the controller means indicative of successful clinching. 41. A system for active clinching of component leads after insertion thereof from an upper side of a circuit board and through apertures in the board to extend from the lower surface thereof, thereby to secure the component in its inserted position, comprising a clinching element for bending the leads, and means for driving the clinching element through a programmably determined path substantially parallel to and adjacent the lower surface of the board in response to control signals, the system further characterized in that the clinching element effects the bending of a lead by running into the lead during the course of its programmably determined travel, and by a programmable controller adapted to provide control signals to the drive means so as to pass the clinching element through a programmably determined sequence of movements such that the clinching element contacts and bend one or more leads of the component. 42. The system of claim 41, further characterized in that the clinching element comprises a rounded clinch tool whose size is proportioned in relation to the component lead size and spacing so as to provide the capability of clinching a single component lead during a clinch movement. 43. The system of claim 41, further characterized by means for positioning the clinching element at a clinch position directly adjacent the lower surface for contacting and bending the leads, or at a retracted position well away from the lower surface, so as not to contact downwardly extending leads. 44. The system of claim 43, characterized in that the means for positioning the clinching element comprise means for extending and retracting this element along an axis extending substantially perpendicular to the lower surface of the circuit board, and in that positioning means is controlled by the programmable controller. 45. In a robotic component insertion system including a presentation station, at least one component feeder means for storing a plurality of components, a robot for sequentially picking up components from said component feeder means and delivering the components to the presentation station, and a lead straightening plate disposed at the presentation station and including an opening pattern defined therein in correspondence with the lead pattern of the components; a method for straightening the leads of said components, comprising a sequence of the following steps: using the robot to grip a component by its body at the component feeder; and using the robot to insert the leads of the gripped component into the opening pattern of said lead straightening plate and thereafter move the component body through a predetermined series of oscillatory movements so as to respectively exercise the component leads to substantially straighten the leads. 46. A component lead straightening and cutting apparatus, comprising: component feeder means for storing a plurality of components each characterized by a component body and one or more component leads depending from the body; robot means for sequentially picking up components from said component feeder means and delivering said components to a presentation station, said robot means comprising a robot controller for controlling the operation of said robot means; lead straightening plate disposed at said presentation station, said plate having an opening pattern defined therein in correspondence with the lead pattern of the component; said robot comprising means for inserting the component leads into said opening pattern of said plate; means for providing relative movement between the component body and said plate with the body gripped by the robot and the leads inserted in said opening pattern so as to provide a predetermined series of relative oscillatory movements therebetween, thereby respectively exercising the component leads to substantially straighten the leads; and cutting means in cooperation with said lead straightening plate for cutting the leads of the selected component to a predetermined length. 47. The apparatus of claim 46 wherein said opening pattern formed in said lead straightening plate is adapted to accommodate the respective lead patterns of a plurality of component types. 48. The apparatus of claim 46 wherein said robot means is adapted to select one of a plurality of types of components available at said feeder means, and wherein said series of oscillatory movements is adapted to the selected type of component. 49. The apparatus of claim 46 wherein said cutting means comprises: a shear plate disposed in sliding relation with said straightening plate, said shear plate including an opening pattern corresponding to the opening pattern formed in said straightening plate; means for disposing said shear plate in an aligned position relative to said straightening plate so that the corresponding hole patterns in each plate are aligned; and means for exerting a sliding shear force on said shear plate so as to shear the component leads extending into the opening pattern formed in said shear plate. 50. The apparatus of claim 46 wherein said series of oscillatory movements comprise relative movements between the component body and the plate in four directions x, -x, +y, -y a predetermined distance away from the central inserted position. 51. The apparatus of claim 50 wherein the predetermined distance is to a minimum yield point at which the component leads no longer spring back or return to the initial position. 