The present invention is such that a doll equipped with a plurality of auxiliary magnetic poles is inserted into a hermetically-sealed container filled with liquid and the container is circumferentially arranged with variable magnetic poles whose polarities are determined by electromagnets, whereby attraction or repulsion is applied on each portion of the doll. The polarity of each variable magnetic pole can be arbitrarily controlled by adjustment of direction of current flowing in the electromagnets to enable the doll in the container to be driven in various types of motions. Therefore, the motions of the doll can be expressed in various interesting types including dancing to the accompaniment of music without recourse to making the doll in a complicated robotic shape.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for animating a doll using electromagnets is characterized by: a container filled with liquid in a hermetically sealed inner space, and including a bottom-opened transparent cover of a predetermined form, a floor plate adhered to the opened portion of the cover that hermetically seals an inner space of the cover, and a support case disposed with an inner space that accommodates and wraps a part of the cover and the floor plate and that supports the cover and the floor plate; a doll disposed inside the cover of the container, wherein the doll has a shape of a human being and includes permanent magnets vertically installed in the head and both feet, and auxiliary magnets installed at both elbows and both hands, each being connected to the permanent magnet of opposite foot via an electric wire; a plurality of electromagnets arranged along a ring-shaped core disposed at a lower surface of the floor plate of the container, where polarity of each electromagnet is independently determined by a control current; a plurality of variable magnetic poles, each protruded and extended from the core between neighboring electromagnets and each one or more variable magnetic poles arranged at a lower surface of the floor plate and an external surface of the cover; a controller applying different control currents to the plurality of electromagnets to allow each of the variable magnetic poles to have a different magnetic force at different times, whereby attractive forces and repulsive forces are provided to the permanent magnets and the auxiliary magnets of the doll; and an electric power supplier supplying electric power to the controller. 2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the doll further includes auxiliary magnetic poles, each at both knees connected via an electric wire to a permanent magnet of the foot of the same side. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the polarity of sole direction of the permanent magnet installed at the right foot and that of the sole direction of the permanent magnet installed at the left foot are opposite. 4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that each distal end of the variable magnetic poles that faces the container has a pointed shape. 5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the liquid is constituted by using degassed liquid added with sterilizer for preventing erosion. 6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the electric power supplier supplies electricity through one or more external electric power sources or dry batteries. 7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the apparatus includes a sound storage for storing sound data and a sound reproducer processing the sound data stored in the sound storage and generating a signal to be outputted through a speaker. 8. The apparatus as claimed in claim 7, characterized in that the apparatus further includes one or more speaker output ports and speakers. 9. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, characterized in that the apparatus further includes a sound sensor detecting sound and an analogue-to-digital (AID) converter converting the sound detected by the sound sensor to a digital signal, where the controller applies a control current to each electromagnet in response to the signal converted by the AID converter. 10. The apparatus as claimed in claim 9, characterized in that the apparatus further includes one or more light sources irradiating light in response to a light source control signal and a light source controller transmitting the light source control signal to each light source in response to the digital signal converted by the AID converter. 