This subject invention features a robot deployed weapon system. A remotely controlled mobile robot has a weapon mounted to the robot. There is a firing circuit for the weapon and a weapon interrupt module on board the robot. An operator control unit is for remotely operating the robot and the weapon. The operating control unit preferably includes a stop switch. Also, a separate operator module is in communication with the weapon interrupt module. Preferably, the operator module includes a kill switch. There are two communication links. The first communication link is between the operator control unit and the robot. This communication link is configured to safe the weapon if the stop switch is activated and/or the first communication link degrades. The second communication link is between the operator module and the weapon interrupt module. The communication link is configured to safe the weapon if the kill switch is activated and/or the second communication link degrades.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot deployed weapon system comprising: a remotely controlled mobile robot including: a weapon mounted to the robot, a firing circuit for the weapon, and a weapon interrupt module; an operator control unit for remotely operating the robot and the weapon, the operating control unit including a stop switch; an operator module in communication with the weapon interrupt module, the operator module including a kill switch; a first communication link between the operator control unit and the robot configured to safe the weapon if the stop switch is activated and/or the first communication link degrades; and a second communication link between the operator module and the weapon interrupt module configured to safe the weapon if the kill switch is activated and/or the second communication link degrades. 2. The system of claim 1 in which the weapon includes a safety and the robot further includes a safety actuator. 3. The system of claim 2 in which the first communication link is configured to activate the safety actuator to engage the safety of the weapon if the stop switch is activated and/or the first communication link degrades. 4. The system of claim 2 in which the second communication link is configured to activate the safety actuator to engage the safety of the weapon if the kill switch is activated and/or the second communication link degrades. 5. The system of claim 1 in which the operator control unit includes an Arm 1 switch, an Arm 2 switch, and a trigger switch which must be activated in order before the firing circuit can fire the weapon. 6. The system of claim 1 in which the range of the second communication link is longer than the range of the first communication link. 7. The system of claim 1 in which the first communication link includes a transceiver on the robot, a controller on the robot, a transceiver in the operator control unit, and a controller in the operator control unit. 8. The system of claim 7 in which the controller of the operator control unit is configured to send a periodic message via the transceiver of the operator control unit to the transceiver on the robot and the controller of the robot is configured to safe the weapon if the periodic message is not received. 9. The system of claim 1 in which the second communication link includes a transceiver in the weapon interrupt module, a controller in the weapon interrupt module, a transceiver in the operator module, and a controller in the operator module. 10. The system of claim 9 in which the controller of the operator unit is configured to send a periodic message via the transceiver of the operator unit to the transceiver of the weapon interrupt module and the controller of the weapon interrupt module is configured to safe the weapon if the periodic message is not received. 11. A robot deployed weapon system comprising: a robot including: a weapon mounted to the robot, a firing circuit for the weapon, and a weapon interrupt module; an operator control unit for remotely operating the robot and the weapon; an operator module in communication with the weapon interrupt module; a first communication link between the operator control unit and the robot configured to safe the weapon if the first communication link degrades; and a second communication link between the operator module and the weapon interrupt module configured to safe the weapon if the second communication link degrades. 12. A deployed weapon system comprising: a platform including: a weapon mounted to the platform, a firing circuit for the weapon, a weapon safety actuator, and a weapon interrupt module; an operator control subsystem for remotely operating the platform and the weapon, the operating control subsystem including a stop switch and a kill switch; a first communication link between the operator control subsystem and the platform configured to actuate the weapon safety actuator and safe the weapon if the stop switch is activated; and a second communication link between the operator control subsystem and the platform configured to activate the weapon interrupt module to safe the weapon if the kill switch is activated. 