Robot-friendly connectors, which, in one aspect are truss joints with two parts, a receptacle and a joint, the joint having a head which is loosely inserted into the receptacle and is then tightened and aligned; in one aspect, the head is a rounded hammerhead which initially is enclosed in the receptacle with a sloppy fit provided by the shape, size and configuration of surfaces on the head and on the receptacle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A connector comprising a receptacle member having a receptacle recess therein defined by recess walls for receiving a joint member, and a receptacle slot in one of the recess walls communicating with the receptacle recess, a joint member having a head secured to a movable rod, part of the rod within the joint member and part of it with the head thereon extending outside the joint member, the head and a portion of the rod insertable into the receptacle recess so that a portion of the rod is receivable in the receptacle slot, tightening means in the joint member for moving the movable rod further into the joint member to secure the head against a wall of the recess, the receptacle slot has a chamfered top entry into which and through which the portion of the rod is inserted, and the joint member has a curved protruding tongue for contacting the chamfered top entry to accommodate initial misalignment between the receptacle member and the joint member. 2. The connector of claim 1 wherein the movable rod is a threaded bolt and the tightening means comprises a rotatable threaded member which threadedly engages the bolt so that movement of the threaded member moves the bolt, and chuck gear means interconnected with the threaded member, the chuck gear means engageable with a chuck key so that rotation of the chuck key moves the chuck gear means thereby rotating the threaded member and moving the bolt. 3. The connector of claim 1 wherein the receptacle recess is sufficiently larger than the head and portion of the rod inserted into the receptacle recess to provide a large capture envelope for the head and the rod portion. 4. The connector of claim 1 wherein the head is generally cylindrical having a cylinder body, a circular end, and a rounded end portion for easy insertion into the receptacle slot and for accommodating initial misalignment between the receptacle member and the joint member. 5. The connector of claim 4 wherein a recess wall has a curved surface adjacent the receptacle slot for co-acting with the rounded end portion of the head and for accommodating initial misalignment between the receptacle member and the joint member. 6. The connector of claim 1 wherein the receptacle slot has a clocking portion with parallel sides and the rod has a portion with parallel flat sides for co-acting with the parallel sides of the receptacle slot clocking portion for clocking of the joint member with respect to the receptacle member. 7. The connector of claim 1 wherein guide grooves are provided on the joint member to facilitate gripping of the joint member. 8. The connector of claim 1 wherein the receptacle member and joint member are configured to accommodate misalignments between longitudinal axes of the receptacle member and the joint member of up to 28 degrees. 9. The connector of claim 1 comprising also securement means connected to the receptacle member for securing the receptacle member to another structural member. 10. The connector of claim 9 wherein the securement means comprises a threaded bolt movable in an opening in an end through the receptacle member. 11. The connector of claim 1 comprising also preload means in the joint member for maintaining a preload on the connector. 12. A connector comprising a receptacle member having a receptacle recess therein defined by recess walls for receiving a joint member, and a receptacle slot in one of the recess walls communicating with the receptacle recess, a joint member having a head secured to a movable threaded bolt part of which is within the joint member and part of it with the head thereon extending outside the joint member, the head and a portion of the rod insertable into the receptacle recess so that a portion of the rod is receivable in the receptacle slot, and tightening means in the joint member for moving the movable rod further into the joint member to secure the head against a wall of the recess, the tightening means comprising a rotatable threaded member which threadedly engages the bolt so that movement of the threaded member moves the bolt, chuck gear means interconnected with the threaded member, the chuck gear means engageable with a chuck key so that rotation of the chuck key moves the chuck gear means thereby rotating the threaded member and moving the bolt, receptacle recess sufficiently larger than the head and portion of the rod inserted into the receptacle recess to provide a large capture envelope for the head and the rod portion, the head is generally cylindrical having a cylinder body, a circular end, and a rounded end portion for easy insertion into the receptacle slot and for accommodating initial misalignment between the receptacle member and the joint member, a recess wall has a curved surface adjacent the receptacle slot for co-acting with the rounded end of the head and for accommodating initial misalignment between the receptacle member and the joint member, the receptacle slot has a chamfered top entry into which and through which the head and the portion of the rod are inserted, the joint member has a curved protruding tongue for contacting the chamfered top entry to accommodate initial misalignment between the receptacle member and the joint member, the receptacle slot has a clocking portion with parallel sides, the rod has a portion with parallel flat sides for co-acting with the parallel sides of the receptacle slot clocking portion for clocking of the joint member with respect to the receptacle member, guide grooves on the joint member facilitate gripping of the joint member, and the receptacle member and joint member are configured to accommodate misalignments of longitudinal axes of the receptacle member and joint member of up to 28 degrees. 13. The connector of claim 12 comprising also securement means connected to the receptacle member for securing the receptacle member to another structural member, the securement means comprising a threaded bolt movable in an opening in an end through the receptacle member, and clocking pins on the end of the receptacle member for reception in recesses of the another structural member to correctly orient the receptacle member with respect to the another structural member. 