Provided is a printhead assembly including a printhead module having a plurality of modular printhead tiles with each tile having a plurality of micro-electromechanical nozzle assemblies for operatively printing on a printing medium. The printhead assembly also includes a ducting assembly having a laminated stack of layers, each layer of the stack having a number of apertures which, when the layers are stacked, provide ducts whereby ink is able to flow from an ink reservoir to the nozzle assemblies. The assembly further includes a number of electrical connector assemblies for operatively connecting the respective printhead tiles. Each tile is mounted to a modular support defining a raised portion and a recessed portion at an end thereof, the tile having electrical connecting strips which overlie the respective recessed portions. The connector assembly includes a connecting member having a series of parallel spaced conducting strips, the member shaped and configured for fitment into a cavity defined by the raised and recessed portions of two abutting supports to connect the connecting strips of two tiles via said conducting strips.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: a printhead module having a plurality of modular printhead integrated circuits (tiles) each tile having a plurality of inkjet nozzle assemblies for operatively printing on a printing medium; a ducting assembly having a laminated stack of layers, each layer of the stack having a number of apertures which, when the layers are stacked, provide ducts whereby ink is able to flow from an ink reservoir to the nozzle assemblies; and a number of electrical connector assemblies for operatively connecting the respective printhead tiles to a plurality of controllers, each controller being configured to generate and load dots for printing by the printhead tiles connected thereto and being mounted to a respective modular support defining a raised portion and a recessed portion at an end thereof, the electrical connector assemblies having electrical connecting strips connected to the respective controllers which overlie the respective recessed portions and comprising a connecting member having a series of parallel spaced conducting strips, each said connecting member shaped and configured for fitment into a cavity defined by the raised and recessed portions of two abutting supports to connect the connecting strips of two electrical connector assemblies via said conducting strips so that the plurality of controllers are interconnected with one another and a plurality of the printhead tiles. 2. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein a curable resin is used as a seal between the ducting assembly and the printhead tiles. 3. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein each modular printhead tile has male and female end portions shaped and configured to complementarily receive a respective end portion of another printhead tile. 4. The connector assembly of claim 1, wherein the connecting member is a rectangular block having the series of conducting strips on each surface thereof. 5. The connector assembly of claim 1, wherein the connecting member is formed of a strip of silicone rubber printed to provide sequentially spaced conductive and non-conductive material strips. 6. The connector assembly of claim 1, wherein the conducting strips of the connecting member are provided in a 2:1 relationship with the connecting strips of the tiles. 