An existing military system for clearing a path through an enemy mine field (by use of an explosively-charged line) is equipped with a safety mechanism for preventing premature detonation of explosive charges. The safety mechanism includes means responsive to weight changes, incident to withdrawal of an explosively-charged line from a storage container. The weight-responsive mechanism permits electrical detonation of the explosive charges only when the container is emptied of the explosive charges.
Claims I claim: 1. In a military system for destroying mines in an enemy mine field, said system comprising a platform (20), a rocket and rocket launch means disposed above the platform, a container (34) positionable on the platform below the rocket, a flexible mechanical line (28) of substantial length having explosive charges extending therealong, said line having its opposite ends connected to the launch means and to the rocket, said line and associated charges being stored in coiled condition within the container, said line and rocket being oriented so that after the rocket is launched the line and associated explosive charges are strung out on enemy terrain containing suspected mines, and a detonation circuit for detonating the explosive charges when they are in place on enemy terrain: the improvement comprising electro-mechanical means for preventing detonation of the explosive charges while the explosive charges are stored in the container, said detonation-prevention means comprising switch means (56) for interrupting the detonation circuit, and weight-responsive actuator means for moving the switch means to a circuit-interrupt condition when the aforementioned container is loaded with explosive charges; said weight-responsive actuator means comprising two laterally spaced plates (64) extending horizontally above the platform substantially equidistant from an imaginary centerline taken through the space occupied by the container, said plates being floatably mounted to engage an undersurface of the container; and at least two springs trained between said platform and each plate to bias the plates upwardly against the container weight, said springs having similar force-rate characteristics, whereby each spring carries approximately the same share of the container weight; said springs being effective on the floatably-mounted plates to lift the container clear of the platform when the container is in an empty condition. 2. The improvement of claim 1 wherein said switch means comprises at least one switch underlying each plate, each switch including a plunger (73) located in the path taken by the associated plate when said plate is deflected downwardly by the container. 3. The improvement of claim 2, and further comprising a unitary mounting structure (68) for each plate and associated springs and switch; said mounting structure tying the plate, springs and switch together so that when the mounting structure is attached to the platform the switch is operatively oriented to the plate. 4. The improvement of claim 2 wherein the various switches are in series electrical connection with one another, whereby all switches must be actuated in order for the detonation circuit to be operable. 