An induction heating system for melting metal cores contained within articles or components made of plastic uses induction heating and redirects flux lines for efficient melting. The system includes a high permeability magnetic core, an induction heating coil about at least a portion of the magnetic core to produce flux circulation in a magnetic circuit formed by the magnetic core, and two magnetic nozzles attached to the magnetic core with a gap therebetween for insertion of a specific shape of plastic article, the magnetic nozzles shaped to direct and position a desired pattern of flux lines to heat and melt the metal core of the plastic article.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An induction heating system for melting metal cores from molded plastic articles comprising: a high permeability magnetic core; an induction heating coil about at least a portion of the magnetic core to produce flux circulation in a magnetic circuit formed by the magnetic core, and two magnetic nozzles attached to the magnetic core with a gap therebetween for insertion of a specific shape of plastic article, the magnetic nozzles shaped to direct and position a desired pattern of flux lines to heat and melt the metal core of the plastic article, wherein a nonmagnetic shim is located between at least one of the two magnetic nozzles and the magnetic core to adjust inductance within the magnetic circuit. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein the non-magnetic shim is made from material selected from the group consisting of laminated aluminum and high temperature thermoplastics. 3. The system according to claim 1 wherein the magnetic core is contained in a hot liquid bath. 4. The system according to claim 1 further comprising: non-magnetic means in contact with the molded plastic article for supporting the article within the magnetic circuit formed by the magnetic core. 5. An induction heating system for melting metal cores from molded plastic articles comprising: a high permeability magnetic core contained in a hot liquid bath; means including an induction heating coil about at least a portion of the magnetic core for producing flux circulation in a magnetic circuit formed by the magnetic core; two shaped magnetic nozzle means for directing and positioning a desired pattern of flux lines to heat and melt the metal core of the plastic article, the magnetic nozzle means being attached to the magnetic core with a gap therebetween for insertion of a specific shape of plastic article; and non-magnetic means in contact with the molded plastic article for supporting the article within the magnetic circuit formed by the magnetic core. 6. The system according to claim 5 wherein the magnetic core is made of laminated magnetic steel. 7. The system according to claim 5 wherein the magnetic core is made of machinable ferrite. 8. The system according to claim 5, further comprising means for removably attaching the magnetic nozzle means to the magnetic core. 9. The system according to claim 5 wherein the magnetic nozzle means are made of machinable ferrite. 10. The system according to claim 8 wherein the magnetic nozzle means are specifically contoured to fit and provide a desired flux pattern for a particular shape of work piece. 