A nozzle assembly for discharging a desired substance such as adhesives is disclosed. The nozzle assembly includes a mechanism for discharging a substance. The discharge mechanism is associated with a supply source to introduce the substance into the discharge mechanism. A mechanism is associated with the discharge mechanism to provide the discharge mechanism with resilient movement in response to forces exerted on the discharge mechanism. The mechanism to provide resilient movement deflects in response to forces applied to the discharge mechanism. The mechanism to provide resilient movement returns the discharge mechanism to substantially the original position of the discharge mechanism before the forces were exerted on the discharge mechanism. The mechanism to provide resilient movement is substantially rigid when the assembly is in a non-deflected position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A nozzle assembly comprising: means for discharging a substance associated with a supply source for introducing said substance into said discharge means, said means including: a tip member having an exposed end and an internal bore therethrough, said bore includes a threaded portion; a first member having a bore therethrough, a threaded portion threadably engaging said tip member threaded bore and a coupling portion; a second member having a bore with an interior threaded portion therethrough, a portion associated with said supply source and a coupling portion; means for providing a passage for said substance to pass said substance from said supply source to said tip member; and means for providing said discharge means with resilient movement in response to forces exerted on said tip member, said resilient means having a single resilient member substantially enclosing said passage means and coupled with said coupling portions of said first and second members, said resilient member having a diameter substantially the same as said first and second members and being of sufficient size so as to provide a substantial space between said passage means and said resilient member when said resilient member is in an unflexed position, said resilient member further contacting said coupling portion of said first member so as to be substantially adjacent said exposed end of said tip member; and a nozzle with exterior threads threadably engaging the interior threaded portion of said bore of said second member for providing said substance to said passage means and said tip member. 2. The nozzle according to claim 1 wherein said means for providing resilient movement deflects in response to forces applied to said discharge means having a magnitude greater than a predetermined magnitude and said means for providing resilient movement returning said discharge means to substantially its original position before said forces were exerted on said discharge means. 3. The nozzle assembly according to claim 2 wherein said resilient member is a helical spring. 4. The nozzle assembly according to claim 1 wherein said resilient member is a helical spring associated with said first and second members and substantially enclosing said passage means for providing said nozzle assembly with resilient movement. 5. The nozzle assembly according to claim 1 wherein said first and second members are substantially identical. 6. A robotic apparatus in combination with a nozzle assembly comprising: a movable arm, a supply source, a conduit means coupled to the supply source, and a nozzle assembly coupled with the arm and supply source; said nozzle assembly including: a tip member having an internal bore therethrough, said bore includes a threaded portion; a first member having a bore therethrough, a threaded portion threadably engaging said tip member threaded bore and a coupling portion; a second member having a bore with an interior threaded portion therethrough, a portion associated with said supply source and a coupling portion; means for providing a passage for said substance to pass said substance from said supply source to said tip member, said passage means coupled with said bores of said first and second members; means for providing said discharge means with resilient movement in response to forces exerted on said tip member, said resilient means having a single resilient member substantially enclosing said passage means and coupled with said coupling portions of said first and second members, said resilient member having a diameter substantially the same as said first and second members and being of sufficient size so as to provide a substantial space between said passage means and said resilient member when said resilient member is in an unflexed position; and a nozzle with exterior threads threadably engaging the interior threaded portion of said bore of said second member for providing said substance to said passage means and said tip member. 7. The nozzle assembly according to claim 6 wherein said resilient member is a helical spring associated with said first and second members and substantially enclosing said passage means for providing said nozzle assembly with resilient movement. 8. The nozzle assembly according to claim 6 wherein said first and second members are substantially identical. 9. The nozzle assembly according to claim 6 wherein said resilient member is a helical spring. 10. A nozzle assembly comprising: a tip piece having an internal bore, said internal bore having a threaded portion; a first connecting piece having an internal bore, a first end of said first connecting piece having an external threaded portion for threadably engaging said threaded portion of said tip piece, a nut adjacent said first end of said first connecting piece for inserting said first connecting piece into said tip piece, a second end adjacent said nut and opposite said first end of said first connecting piece, and said internal bore of said first connecting piece having a flange; a tube having an internal opening therethrough, a first end of said tube being inserted into the second end of said first connecting piece and resting against said flange of said first connecting piece; a second connecting piece having an internal bore, a first end of said second connecting piece having an external threaded portion, said first end of said second connecting piece further having an internal threaded portion, a nut adjacent said first end of said second connecting piece, a second end of said second connecting piece adjacent said nut of said second connecting piece and opposite said first end of said second connecting piece and said internal bore of said second connecting piece having a flange, a second end of said tube being inserted into said second end of said second connecting piece and resting against said flange of said second connecting piece; a helical spring substantially enclosing said tube, a first end of said spring connected to the outer periphery of said second end of said first connecting piece, a second end of said spring connected to the outer periphery of said second end portion of said second connecting piece; and a nozzle threadably engaged with the internal threaded portion of said first end of said second connecting piece; wherein, by means of said spring, said tip piece will deflect in all directions when said tip piece encounters a force. 