A pagewidth reading or writing bar such as a full width array ink jet printhead assembled from fully functional subunits is accurately assembled on an alignment fixture and a structural bar is aligned and bonded thereto with a thermosetting epoxy. To prevent positional disturbance of the subunits prior to curing of the epoxy, the outer subunits are anchored with a quickly curable adhesive, such as, an ultra-violet curable adhesive which, once cured, act as clamps to prevent movement of the intermediate subunits until the epoxy is subsequently cured. Since the printbars may be released from the alignment fixture with the epoxy in an uncured state, several printbars may be simultaneously cured in an oven for a more efficient fabrication process.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of fabricating reading or writing bar arrays from subunits without loss of dimensional tolerance control achieved in initial assembly of subunits on an assembly fixture, comprising the steps of: (a) providing an assembly fixture for assembly of a reading or writing bar array from subunits thereon; (b) installing reading or writing bar subunits one at a time and in an end-to-end abutting relationship with each other on the assembly fixture; (c) continuing step (b) until the reading or writing bar array is completed; (d) placing a pattern of bonding material on one surface of a structural bar; (e) applying a quickly curable adhesive to the outer opposing edges of the bonding material patterned on the structural bar surface; (f) placing the structural bar on a fully assembled reading or writing bar array, so that the structural bar bonding material is in contact with the subunits and the quickly curable adhesive contacts the outer ends of the outer subunits; (g) curing said quickly curable adhesive to anchor the end subunits of said reading or writing bar array to the structural bar and thereby lock the subunits intermediate the end subunits in proper alignment until the bonding material is cured; (h) removing the structural bar from the assembly fixture while the subunits forming the reading or writing bar array are being held in alignment on the structural bar by the cured quickly curable adhesive; and (i) curing the bonding material. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the fabrication method further comprises the steps of: (j) holding the subunits on the assembly fixture by a vacuum applied through a vacuum ports in the assembly fixture, at least one vacuum port being provided for each subunit, so that the vacuum firmly holds each subunit installed on the assembly fixture. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the quickly curable adhesive is an ultra-violet light curable adhesive. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the bonding material has an intermediate and final curing state. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the fabrication method further comprises the steps of: (k) after step (g), curing the bonding material to its intermediate state at which intermediate state the bond material has increased viscosity to provide additional holding capacity for the subunits in contact therewith. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the bonding material is a thermosetting epoxy. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the curing of the thermosetting epoxy is accomplished with heat. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the fabrication method further comprises the steps of: (l) after step (h), collecting a plurality of reading or writing bars; and (m) placing the plurality of reading and writing bars in oven to simultaneously effect the curing of the thermosetting epoxy during step (i). 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the quickly curable adhesive is applied to opposite ends of the fully assembled reading or writing bar array after the structural bar with the bonding material is placed thereon. 