A wafer transport system includes a mobile frame, a wafer cassette conveyor, a wafer support table, and a wafer transfer assembly. The wafer cassette conveyor carries a plurality of wafer cassettes and presents them successively to a transfer location. The wafer transport assembly, including a robotic arm and a vacuum pickup element, is then able to transport individual wafers from the cassettes to the support table. By rotating the support table, a plurality of wafers can be placed in a desired order. The wafer support table may then be moved to a location proximate a processing chamber, such as a chemical vapor deposition reactor, and processed and unprocessed wafers efficiently exchanged by the transport assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for transferring semiconductor wafers between a processing vessel and wafer cassettes, said system comprising: a frame capable of being positioned proximate the processing vessel; means mounted on the frame for transporting a plurality of wafer cassettes along a closed path; a support surface rotatably mounted on the frame; means on the support surface for holding a plurality of individual wafers in a generally vertical orientation; means mounted on the frame for rotating the support surface; a robotic arm assembly having a base positioned at the center of the rotatably mounted support surface and a manipulable arm which extends from the base and which can be selectively positioned relative to the frame; means mounted on the arm for detachably securing individual wafers; and means for manipulating the arm. 2. A system as in claim 1, wherein the means for transporting includes a wheel having means for supporting the cassettes distributed about its periphery, and means for selectively rotating the wheel. 3. A system as in claim 2, wherein the wheel is arranged to rotate in a substantially vertical plane. 4. A system as in claim 1, wherein the frame is a mobile frame. 5. A system for transferring wafers between a processing vessel and wafer cassettes, said system comprising: a frame capable of being positioned proximate the processing vessel; a vertical wheel rotatably mounted on the frame; means on the wheel for supporting a plurality of wafer cassettes in a generally vertical orientation; means on the frame for rotating the wheel to move the cassettes past a fixed location; a horizontal support surface rotatably mounted on the frame; means on the support surface for holding a plurality of individual wafers; means on the frame for rotating the support surface; a robotic arm assembly including a base positioned at the center of the horizontal support surface and a manipulable arm which extends from the base and which can be selectively positioned relative to the frame; means mounted on the arm for detachably securing individual wafers; and means for manipulating the arm so that wafers can be secured and transported (a) the cassettes, (b) the means for holding on the rotatably mounted horizontal support surface, and (c) a location in the processing vessel. 6. A system as in claim 5, further including means for translating the horizontal support surface relative to the frame so that said surface may be moved between a position proximate the vertical wheel and a position proximate the processing vessel. 7. A system as in claim 6, wherein the means for translating includes linear tracks mounted on the frame. 8. A system as in claim 5, wherein the means for supporting the wafer cassettes includes a plurality of plates pivotally suspended from the periphery of the wheel. 9. A system as in claim 5, wherein the means for holding on the support surface holds the wafers substantially vertically. 10. A system as in claim 5, wherein the means for securing individual wafers includes a vacuum pick-up head. 11. A system as in claim 10, wherein the means for manipulating includes means for extending the robotic arm radially, means for changing the elevation of the arm, means for rotating the arm, and means for rolling the vacuum pick-up head. 