A method and apparatus for determining, in three dimensions, the location, size, depth and width of tumors, lesions, abnormalities, structures, and the like, particularly useful for stereotactic surgery. The invention utilizes several energy beams which, when they intersect, allow for such measurements and calculations. In one embodiment, the energy sources attach to a stereotactic frame. In an alternative embodiment, the energy sources are incorporated within a stereotactic microscope. Either embodiment may be mounted on an articulated robotic type arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical beam locatization and surgical microscope apparatus, the apparatus comprising: a surgical reference device defining a three-dimensional space; a surgical microscope; objective lens means disposed on said surgical microscope positioned within said three-dimensional space; beam emitting means comprising laser means for emitting at least two beams from two separate and spaced points; means for movably adjusting relative positions of said beam emitting points with respect to one another; means for aiming said beams at user selected locations on a selected volumetric entity of a body; and means for ascertaining desired information about the selected volumetric entity of the body mathematically from positions of said beam emitting means in said apparatus, relative positions to one another of said beam emitting means, and aiming directions of said beams from said beam emitting points. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein said aiming means comprises robotic arm means. 3. The invention of claim 2 wherein said robotic arm means comprises articulated robotic arm means. 4. The invention of claim 1 wherein said beam emitting means direct said at least two beams through said objective lens means. 5. The invention of claim 1 wherein said beam emitting means direct said at least two beams of said objective lens means. 6. A surgical beam localization apparatus for use with a reference means defining a three-dimensional space, the beam localization apparatus comprising: means for emitting a fixed centrally disposed beam; means for emitting at least two additional beams; first mounting device means for mounting said means for emitting said fixed centrally disposed beam; second mounting device means for mounting said means for emitting said at least two additional beams; means for mounting said means for emitting a fixed centrally disposed beam on said first mounting device means; means for mounting said means for emitting at least two additional beams spaced from and independent of one another and said means for emitting a fixed centrally disposed beam on said second mounting device means; means for locating said first and second mounting device means within said three-dimensional space; means for movably adjusting positions of said means for emitting at least two additional beams relative to one another, and to said means for emitting a fixed centrally disposed beam; robotic arm means for aiming at least one of said beams at a location of a selected volumetric entity of a body; means for variably aiming at least one of said beams at an additional location of the selected volumetric entity of the body; and calculation means for ascertaining desired information about the selected volumetric entity of the body from position of said means for emitting a fixed centrally disposed beam and said means for emitting at least two additional beams and aiming directions of said beams. 7. The invention of claim 6 wherein said robotic arm means comprises articulated robotic arm means. 8. A surgical beam localization apparatus for use with a reference means defining a three-dimensional space, the beam localization apparatus comprising: means for emitting first and second beams from two separate and spaced points; mounting device means for mounting said means for emitting first and second beams; means for attaching said means for emitting first and second beams on said mounting device means; means for movably adjusting relative positions of said means for emitting first and second beams with respect to one another; and calculation means for ascertaining desired information about a selected volumetric entity of a body from a position of the mounting device means in the three-dimensional space, relative positions with respect to each other of said means for emitting first and second beams, and aiming directions of said means for emitting first and second beams. 9. The invention of claim 8 additionally comprising robotic arm means for aiming said beams at user selected locations on the body. 10. The invention of claim 9 wherein said robotic arm means comprises articulated robotic arm means. 11. The invention of claim 8 additionally comprising a surgical microscope disposed on said surgical beam localization apparatus for viewing the selected volumetric entity. 12. The invention of claim 8 wherein said calculation means comprise sensor means for determining the positions of said beams emitting means in the three-dimensional space. 13. The invention of claim 12 wherein said sensor means comprises infrared sensor means. 14. A method of localizing surgical beams for use with a surgical microscope, the method comprising the steps of: a) providing surgical reference means defining a three-dimensional space; b) positioning objective lens means of the surgical microscope within the three-dimensional space; c) emitting at least two beams from two separate and spaced points; d) movably adjusting relative positions of the beam emitting points with respect to one another; e) aiming said beams at user selected locations on a selected volumetric entity of a body; and f) ascertaining desired information about the selected volumetric entity of the body mathematically from positions of the beam emitting points, relative positions with respect to one another of the beam emitting points, and aiming directions of the beams. 15. The invention of claim 14 wherein the step of aiming comprises aiming by robotic arm means. 16. The invention of claim 15 wherein the step of aiming by robotic arm means comprises aiming by articulated robotic arm means. 17. The invention of claim 14 wherein the step of emitting at least two beams comprises directing the at least two beams through the objective lens means. 18. The invention of claim 14 wherein the step of emitting at least two beams comprises directing the at least two beams outside the objective lens means. 19. A method of localizing a surgical beam for use with a reference means defining a three-dimensional space, the method comprising the steps of: a) providing means for emitting a fixed centrally disposed beam; b) providing means for emitting at least two additional beams; c) mounting on a first mounting device the means for emitting the fixed centrally disposed beam; d) mounting on a second mounting device the means for emitting the at least two additional beams; e) locating the first and second mounting devices within the three-dimensional space; f) movably adjusting the positions of the means for emitting at least two additional beams relative to one another, and to the means for emitting a fixed centrally disposed beam; g) aiming by robotic arm means at least one of the beam emitting means at a location of a selected volumetric entity of a body; h) variably aiming at leas tone of the beam emitting means at an additional location of the selected volumetric entity of the body; and i) ascertaining desired information about the selected volumetric entity of the body from positions of the means for emitting a fixed centrally disposed beam and the means for emitting at least two additional beams and aiming directions of said beam emitting means. 20. The invention of claim 19 wherein the aiming by robotic arm means step comprises aiming by articulated robotic arm means. 21. A method of a localizing surgical beam for use with a reference means defining a three-dimensional space, the method comprising the step of: a) providing means for emitting first and second beams from two separate and spaced points; b) mounting on a mounting device the means for emitting first and second beams; c) movably adjusting the relative positions of the means for emitting first and second beams with respect to one another; and d) ascertaining desired information about a selected volumetric entity of a body from a position of the mounting device in the three-dimensional space, relative positions with respect to each other of the means for emitting first and second beams, and aiming directions of the means for emitting first and second beams. 22. The invention of claim 21 additionally comprising the step of aiming the first beam at a user selected location on the body. 23. The invention of claim 22 wherein the aiming step comprises aiming by robotic arm means. 24. The invention of claim 23 wherein the step of aiming by robotic arm means comprises aiming by articulated robotic arm means. 25. The invention of claim 21 additionally comprising the step of viewing the selected volumetric entity through a surgical microscope. 26. The invention of claim 21 wherein the ascertaining step comprises determining by sensor means the positions of the beam emitting means in the three-dimensional space. 27. The invention of claim 26 wherein the determining step comprises determining by infrared sensor means. 