In a system having a number of semiconductor processing modules sharing a common vacuum environment, a mid-entry load lock is provided to permit insertion and removal of wafers into the vacuum environment at a point between various other robotic handlers, process modules, and load locks. This arrangement permits increased flexibility in scheduling when multiple wafers are processed concurrently.
Claims I claim: 1. A system comprising: a plurality of processing modules sharing a vacuum environment, each processing module for performing one or more fabrication processes on a workpiece, the processing modules arranged for sequential processing of the workpiece in a sequence from a first processing module to a last processing module; at least two end load locks for exchanging the workpiece between the vacuum environment and an external environment, the at least two end load locks positioned at opposite ends of the plurality of processing modules, and a mid-entry load lock coupled to the vacuum environment and separating the vacuum environment into two separate interior volumes each selectively isolated from the mid-entry load lock by a slot valve, the mid-entry load lock configured to at least one of add the workpiece to the vacuum environment from the external environment and remove the workpiece from the vacuum environment to the external environment. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the workpiece enters the vacuum environment at the mid-entry load lock. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the workpiece exits the vacuum environment at the mid-entry load lock. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of mid-entry load locks, each mid-entry load lock positioned between the at least two end load locks. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising a return mechanism that moves the workpiece to a first one of the plurality of mid-entry load locks and retrieves the workpiece from a second one of the plurality of mid-entry load locks. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the workpiece is processed in a selected, sequential subset of the plurality of processing modules positioned between the mid-entry load lock and the least two end load locks. 7. The system of claim 4, wherein the processing modules are arranged to perform a plurality of different fabrication processes depending upon at least one of a mid-entry load lock where a workpiece is added to the sequence or a mid-entry load lock where the workpiece is removed from the sequence. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the mid-entry load lock connects a plurality of different manufacturing facilities. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the manufacturing facilities are arranged to conserve space. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein two manufacturing facilities are more space economical when connected by a mid-entry load lock than when separated. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing modules operate on the workpiece in a controlled environment. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the controlled environment includes at least one of a vacuum, a controlled pressure, a controlled temperature, a controlled air purity, or a controlled gas mixture. 13. The system of claim 1, further comprising one or more robotic arms for handling items. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more robotic arms include a SCARA arm. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more robotic arms include a four-link SCARA arm. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more robotic arms include a three-link SCARA arm. 17. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more robotic arms include a pair of vertically stacked four-link SCARA arms. 18. The system of claim 13, wherein one or more of the end load locks further comprises a pair of vertically stacked load locks. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein the mid-entry load lock further comprises a pair of vertically stacked load locks. 20. The system of claim 13, further comprising a plurality of mid-entry load locks, each mid-entry load lock positioned between the at least two end load locks, and each mid-entry load lock further comprises a pair of vertically stacked load locks. 