A cooperative differential drive system (20) for use in material handling and flight control and guidance systems, and the like. The drive system (20) may be employed in application that require high resolution task repeatability capabilities and the execution of precise position and force trajectory path following routines. A differential gear system (24) is driven by two servo-controlled actuators (22, 23) under control of a controller (21). The first actuator (22) is regulated at constant speed while the second actuator (23) is modulated at an appropriately varying speed to achieve a desired drive speed of a load. The second actuator (23) is controlled such that it dos not change rotational direction. Ultimate control of the load is achieved by way of the differential gear system (24) that combines the two actuator speeds to achieve the desired load speed. The differential gear system (24) is optionally coupled by way of a clutch system (25) to the load. The clutch system (25) is engaged after both actuators (22, 23) have reached their nominal operating speeds, thus eliminating actuator start-up problems. Both actuators (22, 23) are kept in constant motion so that they do not operate near their dead-zone region, thus eliminating nonlinearity problems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cooperative differential drive system for controlling the motion of a payload, said drive system comprising: a controller; a first actuator coupled to the controller for responding to control signals provided thereby, and wherein the control signals cause the first actuator to rotate at a constant rotational rate in a first selected rotational direction; a second actuator coupled to the controller for responding to control signals provided thereby, and wherein the control signals cause the second actuator to rotate at a selected variable rotational rate in a second selected rotational direction; a first plurality of sensors coupled between the first actuator and the controller that are employed to control the rotational rate of the first actuator; a second plurality of sensors coupled between the second actuator and the controller that are employed to control the rotational rate of the second actuator; a differential gear system coupled between the first and second actuators and the load, wherein said differential gear system is responsive to the respective rotational speeds of the first and second actuators and provides a desired load speed. 2. The drive system of claim 1 further comprising a clutch system coupled between the differential gear system and the load, and wherein said controller has a control signal coupled to the clutch system for engaging the clutch system after the first and second actuators have achieved their respective operating speeds and after initial system transients have been overcome. 3. The drive system of claim 1 further comprising: a third plurality of sensors coupled between the differential gear system and the controller. 4. The drive system of claim 1 wherein the controller is adapted to cause the first and second actuators to rotate within respective linear regions of operation and wherein the difference in their respective rotational speeds is used to control the rotation of the differential gear system. 5. The drive system of claim 1 wherein the first and second actuators each comprise a DC servo motor. 6. A cooperative differential drive system for controlling the motion of a payload, said drive system comprising: a controller; a first actuator coupled to the controller for responding to control signals provided thereby, and wherein the control signals are adapted to cause the first actuator to rotate at a constant rotational rate in a first selected rotational direction; a second actuator coupled to the controller for responding to control signals provided thereby, and wherein the control signals are adapted to cause the second actuator to rotate at a selected variable rotational rate in a second selected rotational direction; a first plurality of sensors coupled between the first actuator and the controller that are employed to control the rotational rate of the first actuator; a second plurality of sensors coupled between the second actuator and the controller that are employed to control the rotational rate of the second actuator; a differential gear system coupled between the first and second actuators and the load, wherein said differential gear system is responsive to the respective rotational speeds of the first and second actuators and provides a desired load speed; and a clutch system coupled between the differential gear system and the load, and wherein said controller has on control signal coupled to the clutch system for engaging the clutch system after the first and second actuators have achieved their respective operating speeds and after initial system transients have been overcome. 7. The drive system of claim 6 further comprising: a third plurality of sensors coupled between the differential gear system and the controller. 8. The drive system of claim 6 wherein the controller provides a means for causing the first and second actuators to rotate within respective linear regions of operation and wherein the difference in their respective rotational speeds is used to control the rotation of the differential gear system. 9. The drive system of claim 6 wherein the first and second actuators each comprise a DC servo motor. 