The present invention provides for microfluidic devices and methods for their use. The invention further provides for apparatus and systems for using the microfluidic devices, analyze reactions carried out in the microfluidic devices, and systems to generate, store, organize, and analyze data generated from using the microfluidic devices. The invention further provides methods of using and making microfluidic systems and devices which, in some embodiments, are useful for crystal formation. In one embodiment, an apparatus includes a platen having a platen face with one or more fluid ports therein. The fluid ports spatially correspond to one or more wells on a surface of the microfluidic device. A platform for holding the microfluidic device relative to the platen is included, and a platen actuator for urging the platen against the microfluidic device so that at least one of the fluid ports of the platen is urged against one of the wells to form a pressure chamber comprising the well and the port, so that when pressurized fluid is introduced or removed into or from the pressure chamber through one of the ports, fluid pressure is changed therein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for operating a microfluidic device, comprising a carrier portion, the apparatus comprising: a platen having a platen face with one or more fluid ports therein and one or more check valve purge actuators, the fluid ports spatially corresponding to one or more inlets on a surface of the carrier portion of the microfluidic device and the one or more check valve purge actuators comprising one or more pins; a platform for holding the microfluidic device relative to the platen; a platen actuator for urging the platen against the microfluidic device so that at least one of the fluid ports of the platen is urged against one of the inlets to form a pressure chamber comprising the inlet and the port, so that when pressurized fluid is introduced or removed into or from the pressure chamber though one of the ports, fluid pressure is changed therein; and a fluid line in fluid communication with at least a portion of the platen actuator, wherein the fluid line is configured to deliver a pressurized fluid to at least one of the fluid ports. 2. The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the platen actuator comprises a robotic platen actuator. 3. The apparatus as in claim 2 wherein the platen actuator is under electronic control by a controller. 4. The apparatus as in claim 3 wherein the controller is a computer or under computer control. 5. The apparatus as in claim 4 wherein the computer is following a program. 6. The apparatus as in claim 5 wherein the program was customized by a user of the apparatus. 7. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the fluid line is configured to deliver the pressurized fluid to the at least one fluid pressure port using a pressure between about one (1) psi and about thirty-five (35) psi. 8. The apparatus as in claim 7, wherein the pressurized fluid is a gas. 9. The apparatus as in claim 8, wherein the gas is air. 10. An apparatus for operating a microfluidic device comprising a carrier portion, the apparatus comprising: a platen having a platen face with a plurality of fluid ports therein and one or more check valve purge actuators, the fluid ports spatially corresponding to one or more inlets on a surface of the carrier portion of the microfluidic device and the one or more check valve purge actuators comprising one or more pins; a platform for holding the micrOfluidic device relative to the platen; and a platen actuator for urging the platen against the microfluidic device so that at least one of the fluid ports of the platen is urged against one of the inlets to form a pressure chamber comprising the inlet and the port, so that when pressurized fluid is introduced or removed into or from the pressure chamber through one of the ports, fluid pressure is changed therein, and wherein the platen actuator is configurcd to deliver a pressurized fluid to the at least one fluid pressure port using a pressure between about one (1) psi and about thirty-five (35) psi. 11. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the pressurized fluid is a gas. 12. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the gas is air. 