A low friction, object guidance, and gripping finger device for a robotic end effector on a robotic arm, having a pair of robotic fingers each having a finger shaft slideably located on a gripper housing attached to the end effector, each of the robotic fingers having a roller housing attached to the finger shaft. The roller housing has a ball-bearing mounted centering roller located at the center, and a pair of ball bearing mounted clamping rollers located on either side of the centering roller. The object has a recess to engage the centering roller and a number of seating ramps for engaging the clamping rollers. The centering roller acts to position and hold the object symmetrically about the centering roller with respect to the X axis and the clamping rollers act to position and hold the object with respect to the Y and Z axis.
Claims I claim: 1. A low friction, object guidance, and gripping finger device for a robotic end effector on a robotic arm, comprising: a pair of robotic fingers each having a finger shaft slideably located on a gripper housing attached to said end effector; each of said robotic fingers comprising a roller housing affixed to said finger shaft, said roller housing having one ball-bearing mounted centering roller affixed at the center and two ball bearing mounted clamping rollers affixed one on top of the other on either side of said centering roller; said object having a recess to engage said centering roller and a plurality of seating ramps to engage said clamping rollers; said centering roller acting to position and hold said object symmetrically about said centering roller with respect to an X axis; said clamping rollers acting to position and hold said object with respect to a Y and Z axis; said X and Y axis being located in a horizontal plane and orthogonal to one another, and said Z axis being located in a vertical plane which is orthogonal to said horizontal plane. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said rollers are made from a resilient material. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein said roller housing has two ball bearing mounted centering rollers affixed one on top of the other at the center and one ball bearing mounted clamping roller affixed on either side of said centering rollers. 4. The device of claim 1 further including a means for said ball bearing mounted centering roller to rotate and perform limited translation. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein said means for said centering roller to rotate and perform limited translation comprises a two way bearing, a centering spring, a spring retainer, a bearing way and a roller housing. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein said roller housing has four co-planar bearing mounted alignment rollers located thereon, the longitudinal axis of each alignment roller being at 90.degree. to the longitudinal axis of the adjacent alignment bearing. 