An interchangeable robot end-of-arm tooling system is provided for performing multiple tasks using interchangeable tools within a work cell. The system includes a computer control for the system attached to the robot controller, a quick change adapter, and at least two tools adapted for attachment to the quick change adapter.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of performing multiple tasks upon a work piece within a work cell with a robot arm and robot controller comprising the steps of: (a) connecting a quick change adapter to the end of the robot arm; (b) connecting a preprocessor to the robot controller and quick change adapter; (c) placing at least two tools within the work cell; (d) picking up a first of said two tools with said quick change adapter, thereby establishing power and intelligence communications between said tool and said preprocessor; (e) positioning the robot arm and said first tool at a work location within the work cell by means of signals from said robot controller; (f) performing a predetermined first task on the work piece with said first tool when located at the work location by means of signals from said preprocessor; (g) dropping the tool in response to signals from the preprocessor indicating that the task is completed; and (h) repeating steps (d), (e), (f) and (g) with the second of said two tools to perform a predetermined second task. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of checking identification codes associated with said tools and aborting the method if the identification code of one of the tools indicates that an incorrect tool has been picked up. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising the steps of reading parameters for said tasks from a computer memory and causing said tasks to be performed according to said parameters. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising the steps of altering the parameters in the computer memory prior to the step of reading the parameters. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein one of said task comprises drilling a hole in the work piece. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein one of said task comprises gripping the work piece. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein one of said task comprises measuring the work piece. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein one of said task comprises fastening a nut to the work piece. 9. The method of claim 7 wherein one of said task comprises measuring the work piece, comparing the measurement to a dimension stored in a computer memory, and manipulating the work piece in accordance with the comparison. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising analyzing measurement signals from the tools to determine when the tasks are completed. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising calculating measurement values from the measurement signals and displaying the measurement values on a terminal. 12. An interchangeable robot end-of-arm tooling system for use with a robot arm controlled by a computer, comprising: (a) an adapter attached to the end of the robot arm and having locking means for physically supporting each of a plurality of tools and connector means for establishing power and intelligence communications with each tool; (b) each of said plurality of tools having means for interconnection with said connector means on said adapter, means for interconnection with said locking means on said adapter, means for performing a task on an object, and means for sensing one or more conditions associated with said task performable by said tool; and (c) computing means electrically connected to said adapter and to the computer for said robot arm for instructing the robot arm computer to move the arm to preprogrammed positions, for operating a tool connected and locked to the adapter through intelligence and power communication sent to and received from the tool, and for performing a sequence of preprogrammed tasks with said plurality of tools. 