An inflatable structure, particularly adapted for use in outer space, employs one or more inflatable links which are connected at a base of the structure. A distal end of an outer most link is provided with a gripper assembly which can be remote controlled, and suitable encoders are included to indicate the angular position of each of the links. The motors for driving the at least one link is situated at the base to thereby reduce the mass of the at least one link and correspondingly reduce moments of inertia during operation.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. An inflatable structure, comprising: at least inner and outer elongated links, each of the links being formed of a flexible fluidtight material and each defining at least one fluidtight chamber, the material of each link having sufficient strength to remain fluidtight when the at least one chamber thereof is inflated with a fluid to a pressure sufficient that the link is rigidized by the fluid pressure of the at least one chamber; joint means for pivotally connecting the inner and outer links to one another; a base; means for pivotal mounting the inner link at the base; first drive means for pivotally driving the inner link at the base; and second drive means for pivotally driving the outer link about the inner link such that a position of the outer link is controlled with respect to the inner link when the links are inflated. 2. An inflatable structure according to claim 1, wherein the first and second drive means are positioned at the base and wherein the outer link is connected to the second drive means by a drive train. 3. An inflatable structure according to claim 2, wherein the drive train is one of a belt and chain having a pair of ends attached to lateral sides of a proximal end of the outer link, the one of the belt and chain being looped around a rotatable element rotatable driven by the second drive means. 4. An inflatable structure according to claim 3, wherein the second drive means has a casing, wherein the inner link is rigidly attached to the casing of the second drive means, and wherein the means for pivotal mounting the inner link at the base comprises means for pivoting the casing of the second drive means relative the base by the first drive means. 5. An inflatable structure according to claim 1, wherein the at least one fluidtight chamber is pressurized to a pressure of at least between about 10 to 50 psi. 6. An inflatable structure according to claim 1, wherein the at least one fluidtight chamber is provided with valve means for permitting inflation and deflation of the at least one fluidtight chamber. 7. An inflatable structure according to claim 1, wherein the flexible fluidtight material comprises a self-sealing material. 8. An inflatable structure according to claim 1, wherein the fluid is one of air and helium. 9. An inflatable articulated structure according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the two links defines a plurality of fluidtight chambers. 10. An inflatable structure comprising: an elongated link formed of a flexible fluidtight material and defining at least one fluidtight chamber, the material of the link having sufficient strength to remain fluidtight when the at least one chamber is inflated with a fluid to a pressure sufficient to rigidize the link due to the fluid pressure in the at least one chamber thereof; a base; pivoting means for pivotally mounting the elongated link at the base; drive means, positioned at the base, for pivotally driving the link to control a position of the link relative to the base when the link is inflated. 11. An inflatable structure according to claim 10, wherein the at least one fluidtight chamber is pressurized to a pressure of at least between about 10 to 50 psi. 12. An inflatable structure according to claim 10, wherein the at least one fluidtight chamber is provided with valve means for permitting inflation and deflation of the at least one fluidtight chamber. 13. An inflatable structure according to claim 10, wherein the flexible fluidtight material comprises a self-sealing material. 14. An inflatable structure according to claim 10, wherein the fluid is one of air and helium. 15. An inflatable articulated structure according to claim 10, wherein the link defines a plurality of fluidtight chambers. 