A robotic work positioning system includes programmed, powered robot, and a non-powered arm which is locatable at various positions in three dimensional space by means of the powered robot. A mating interconnection is provided on the non-powered arm whereby the non-powered arm may be accurately engaged and positioned by the powered robot for holding a part or workpiece at an accurately predetermined location. Together with the powered robot, the non-powered arm facilitates the accurate assembly of component parts. One or more non-powered arms can be used to generate three dimensional tooling which can be altered robotically.
Claims I claim: 1. A handling and assembly system for positioning and joining a first workpiece and a second workpiece, said system comprising: a first robot arm and a second robot arm cooperable for holding said first workpiece and said second workpiece in adjoining relation, said first robot arm having engaging means forming a permanent part thereof during operation of said first arm in positioning joining of said workpieces for selectively engaging said second arm to move the same, and for selectively grasping said first workpiece, said second arm having engaging means for grasping said second workpiece including means cooperable with engaging means of the first arm for movement of said second arm by said first arm to locate the engaging means of said second arm at a fixed position, and locking means for said second arm characterized by an unlocked condition wherein said second arm is movable by said first arm and a locked condition when said first arm has located said second arm at said fixed position, whereby a workpiece held by said second arm is positionable in accurately predetermined relation with respect to a workpiece held by said first arm. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein said second arm is non-powered with respect to its movement. 3. The system according to claim 1 further including a tool operable to fasten workpieces held in position respectively by said engaging means of said first and second arms. 4. The system according to claim 1 further including conveyor means for delivering workpieces adapted to be gripped by engaging means of said first and second arms. 5. A handling and assembly system for positioning and joining first and second workpieces, said system comprising: a first robot arm and a second robot arm simultaneously operable for holding said first workpiece and said second workpiece respectively, said first robot arm having engaging means continuously attached thereto during the operation thereof in the positioning and joining of said workpieces for selectively engaging said second arm to move said second arm, and for selectively grasping said first workpiece, wherein said first robot arm is adapted for operation under programmed control to move said engaging means in three dimensions, said second robot arm having one or more joints provided with locking means characterized by a locked condition and an unlocked condition, said second arm having engaging means for grasping said second workpiece, said second arm being moveable by said first arm in three dimensions when engaged by the engaging means of the first arm for locating the engaging means of the second arm as well as any workpiece held thereby at a fixed position in space determined accurately by control of said first arm, and means for operating said locking means of said second arm for locking the engaging means thereof at said fixed position in space for holding said second workpiece in accurately predetermined relation with said first workpiece held by said first arm. 6. The system according to claim 5 wherein said second arm is non-powered with respect to movement thereof. 7. The system according to claim 5 wherein the engaging means of said second arm includes means matingly engageable in substantially exact relation with said engaging means of said first arm. 8. The system according to claim 7 wherein the engaging means of said first arm is remotely controllable for bringing about mating engagement with said second arm. 9. The system according to claim 5 further including a tool operable to fasten workpieces held in position respectively by said engaging means of said first and second arms. 10. The system according to claim 5 wherein said joints of said second arm comprise rotatably cooperable ball and socket elements and said locking means comprise means for selectively applying pressure to the ball elements thereof for bringing about said locked condition. 11. The system according to claim 10 wherein said second arm comprises plural arm sections joined by said joints. 