A system is described for sensing the relative angular orientation of two relatively movable joint segments of a living body joined together at a joint. The system comprises at least two links coupled together about a pivot axis so that the links are pivotable relative to one another about the axis so as to define a variable mechanical angle between the links about the axis. The two links are secured respectively to the joint segments so that the links pivot about the pivot axis when the joint segments pivot about said joint. A Hall effect sensor is used to accurate sense the mechanical angle. The mechanical angle sensed by the sensor is then correlated with the actual angle made by the joint segments. The arrangement is used with each finger and thumb joint of the hand to provide data representative of finger and thumb orientations of a hand.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for use in sensing the relative angular orientation of at least two movable adjacent skeletal link segments of a living body joined together at a joint, said system comprising: first and second links coupled together about a first pivot axis so that said links are pivotable relative to one another about said axis so as to define a variable angle between said links about said first pivot axis; securing means for securing said first and second links relative to said skeletal link segments so that said links pivot about said first pivot axis when said skeletal link segments pivot about said joint, wherein said securing means includes an attachment assembly for attaching said links to each of said skeletal link segments so that said links pivot relative to said attachment assembly about two degrees of freedom and follow the relative angular movement of the skeletal link segments with reduced artifacts due to motion between said attachment assembly and said skeletal link segments; and sensor means for sensing said angle between said skeletal link segments. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said attachment assembly includes means for attaching said link so that said link is pivotable about second and third, mutually perpendicular pivot axes relative to said attachment assembly with reduced artifacts due to motion between said attachment assembly and said skeletal link segments. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein said sensor means includes a Hall effect sensor. 4. A system according to claim 1, wherein said attachment assembly includes means for accommodating changes in the cross-section of each skeletal link segment as the adjacent skeletal link segments are bent about the joint, while preventing relative movement between said skeletal link segments and said attachment assembly so as to substantially reduce artifacts due to motion between said attachment assembly and said skeletal link segments. 5. A system according to claim 1, further including means for correlating the angle sensed by said sensor means with said angular orientation made by said adjacent skeletal link segments. 6. A system according to claim 1, wherein said means for securing said first and second links secures said links so that said first pivot axis is displaced from and substantially parallel to the pivot axis of said joint. 7. A system according to claim 5, wherein said links are adapted to be positioned so that said first pivot axis is above the pivot axis of said joint. 8. A system according to claim 5, wherein said means for correlating said angle between said links with the angle made by said skeletal link segments includes means comprising a lookup table containing the correlation between said angle between said links, and the angle between said skeletal link segments. 9. A system according to claim 5, wherein said means for correlating said angle between said links with the angle made by said skeletal link segments includes means containing a set of simultaneous equations for determining the correlation between said angle between said links and the angular orientation made by said skeletal link segments. 10. A system for use in sensing the relative angular orientation of the fingers and thumb of a hand, said system comprising: (A) an exoskeletal unit adapted to be secured to said hand, said exoskeletal unit comprising: (a) a plurality of pairs of links, each pair for use with a corresponding joint of the fingers and thumb, the links of each pair being coupled together so that said links of each pair are pivotable relative to one another about a first pivot axis so as to define a variable angle between said links of said pair about said axis; (b) securing means for securing said pairs of links to said hand so that each pair of links is secured relative to the adjacent skeletal link segments of the fingers and thumb of said hand joined at the corresponding joint with which said pair of links is used so that said pair of links pivot about said pivot axis when said adjacent skeletal link segments pivot about said joint, wherein said securing means includes an attachment assembly for attaching said links to each of said skeletal link segments so that said links pivot relative to said attachment assembly about two degrees of freedom and follow the relative angular movement of the skeletal link segments with reduced artifacts due to motion between said attachment assembly and said skeletal link segments; and (c) sensor means, secured to each pair of links, for sensing said angle between said links; and (B) means for correlating the angle sensed by said sensor means with the angle made by the corresponding adjacent skeletal link segments. 11. A system according to claim 10, wherein said sensor means includes a Hall effect sensor. 12. A system according to claim 10, wherein said means for correlating said angle sensed by said sensor means with the angle made by said skeletal link segments includes means comprising a lookup table containing the correlation between said angle sensed by said sensor and the angle made by said corresponding adjacent skeletal link segments. 13. A system according to claim 10, further including means for sensing the relative angular position of each of said fingers and thumb relative to one another. 14. A system according to claim 10, wherein said securing means includes a plurality of attachment assemblies for attachment to corresponding ones of said skeletal link segments, wherein each of said attachment assemblies includes means for accommodating changes in the cross-section of each skeletal link segment as the adjacent segments are bent about the joint, while preventing relative movement between said skeletal link segments and said attachment assembly so as to reduce artifacts due to motion between said attachment assembly and said skeletal link segments. 15. A system for use in sensing the relative angular orientation of two movable adjacent skeletal link segments of a living body joined together at a joint, said system comprising: first and second links; attachment assembly means for coupling said links relative to said adjacent skeletal link segments so that said links are movable relative to one another as said skeletal link segments move relative to one another as said skeletal link segments move relative to one another wherein said attachment assembly means cooperates with said links and said adjacent skeletal link segments so that artifacts due to motion between said attachment assembly means and said skeletal link segments are reduced; signal generating means, responsive to the relative position of said links, for generating a sensor signal representative of the relative angular orientation of said links; means for storing data regarding the physical features of said skeletal link segments; and means for generating a finger angle signal representing the angular orientation of said joint as a function of said sensor signal and said stored data. 16. In a system for use in sensing the relative angular orientation of two movable adjacent skeletal link segments of a living body joined together at a joint, said system comprising: (a) first and second links coupled together about a pivot axis so that said links are pivotable relative to one another about said axis so as to define a variable angle between said links about said axis; (b) securing means for securing said links with respect to said skeletal link segments so that said links pivot about said pivot axis when said skeletal link segments pivot about said joint; (c) sensor means, secured to said first and second links, for sensing said angle between said segments; and (d) means for correlating the angle sensed by said sensor means with said angular orientation made by said skeletal link segments; wherein the improvement comprises: said securing means including an attachment assembly for securing said each of said links relative to the corresponding skeletal link segment, each said attachment assembly including means for accommodating changes in the cross-section of said corresponding skeletal link segment as the skeletal link segments are bent about the joint, while preventing relative movement between said one skeletal link segment and said attachment assembly. 17. The system according to claim 16, wherein each said attachment assembly includes (a) an attachment base, (b) a post fixed to said base, (c) a strap mount slidably mounted on said post relative to said base, (d) means for biasing said strap mount away from said base, and (e) a strap, secured to said strap mount and adapted to be secured around said one skeletal link segment, for securing said assembly to the corresponding skeletal link segment, wherein said mount and base move relative to one another as the cross-section of said corresponding skeletal link segment varies. 18. The system according to claim 16, wherein said base includes a groove shaped to engage the surface of said corresponding skeletal link segment. 19. The system according to claim 18, wherein said groove is V-shaped. 20. In a system for use in sensing the relative angular orientation of two movable adjacent skeletal link segments of a living body joined together at a joint, said system comprising: (a) first and second links coupled together about a pivot axis so that said links are pivotable relative to one another about said axis so as to define a variable angle between said links about said axis; (b) securing means for securing said links with respect to said skeletal link segments so that said links pivot about said pivot axis when said skeletal link segments pivot about said joint; (c) sensor means, secured to said first and second links, for sensing said angle between said segments; and (d) means for correlating the angle sensed by said sensor means with said angular orientation made by said skeletal link segments; wherein the improvement comprises: said securing means including an attachment assembly for securing each of said links relative to a corresponding one of said skeletal link segments, each said attachment assembly including means for pivotally attaching a corresponding link to said attachment assembly relative to two degrees of freedom so as to reduce artifacts due to motion between said link and said corresponding one of said skeletal link segments. 21. In a system for use in sensing the relative angular orientation of the skeletal link segments forming the proximal and distal joints of the thumb of a hand, said system comprising: first, second, third and fourth links coupled together so that (a) said first and second links are pivotal relative to one another about a first axis so as to define a first variable angle, (b) said second and third links are pivotal relative to one another about a second axis, and (c) said third and fourth links are pivotal relative to one another about a third axis so as to define a second variable angle; means for securing said firs, second, third and fourth links with respect to said skeletal link segments so that said links pivot about said pivot axes when said skeletal link segments pivot about said joints; sensor means, secured to said first and second links and to said third and fourth links, for sensing said first and second variable angles; and means for correlating the angles sensed by said sensor means with said angular orientation made by said skeletal link segments. 22. The system according to claim 21, wherein said means for securing said first, second, third and fourth link segments includes means for securing said first and fourth link segments relative to said hand. 