This invention provides apparatus, protocols, and methods that permit wafers to be loaded and unloaded in a gas-phase epitaxial growth chamber at high temperatures. Specifically, this invention provides a device for moving wafers or substrates that can bath a substrate being moved in active gases that are optionally temperature controlled. The active gases can act to limit or prevent sublimation or decomposition of the wafer surface, and can be temperature controlled to limit or prevent thermal damage. Thereby, previously-necessary temperature ramping of growth chambers can be reduced or eliminated leading to improvement in wafer throughput and system efficiency.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor wafer transfer device associated with semiconductor processing equipment that includes a first environment having a growth chamber for gas-phase epitaxial deposition and a second, lower temperature environment, the device comprising: a support member; a plurality of gas outlet ports in the support member for discharging gas; at least one gas inlet port in the support member for receiving one or more gases from one or more external gas sources; at least one passageway from the inlet port to the outlet ports having gas flowing within, the gas comprising an active portion that is chemically reactive with one or more semiconductor materials so as to limit decomposition or sublimation of a surface of a wafer comprising such materials; and temperature control means to control the temperature of the transfer device and gases flowing therein; wherein the temperature of the second environment is lower than the temperature of the first environment, and as the transfer device transfers the wafer from the growth chamber of the first environment to the second environment, the transfer device bathes with the gas until the wafer surface temperature falls below temperatures at which decomposition or sublimation of the wafer surface in the absence of the gas are significant. 2. The device of claim 1 further comprising a semiconductor wafer suspended beneath the transfer device by aerodynamic forces generated by gas discharged from the outlet ports onto the wafer and positioned so that the gas discharged from the outlet ports bathes at least a surface of the wafer, wherein the active gas becomes chemically reactive above a threshold temperature or in the presence of a plasma source. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein the active portion of the gas is chemically reactive with the surface material of the bathed wafer. 4. The device of claim 1 wherein the flowing gas comprises one or more of ammonia, hydrazine, dimethyl-hydrazine, a compound comprising a hydrazine moiety, phosphine and arsine. 5. The device of claim 1 wherein the flowing gas further comprises a chemically inactive carrier gas and the temperature control means include one or more heating elements sized and arranged to heat the transfer device, and thereby to heat gases flowing therein. 6. The device of claim 5, wherein the active portion of the gas results from at least partial pyrolytic decomposition above a threshold temperature, and wherein the heating elements are further sized and configured to heat the gas above the threshold temperature so as to cause such pyrolytic decomposition. 7. The device of claim 1 wherein the wafer surface comprises a group III nitride compound and wherein the active portion of the gas comprises nitrogen species, and wherein the threshold temperature is between approximately 320-1000.degree. C. 8. The device of claim 1 further comprising a plasma source associated with the wafer transfer device, and wherein the active portion of the gas results from decomposition in the presence of the plasma source. 9. A method for transferring semiconductor wafers in a semiconductor processing equipment using the transfer device of claim 1, wherein a wafer is transferred between a first epitaxial growth environment where the wafer resides during periods of epitaxial growth and a second transfer environment where the wafer resides during other periods, the method comprising: bathing a surface of a wafer with one or more gases from a plurality of gas outlet ports in the support member of the transfer device for a selected period of time, the gases comprising an active gas that is chemically reactive with the wafer surface so as to limit decomposition or sublimation of the surface, and then transferring the wafer from one of the first or second environments to the other; wherein the wafer is initially present in the first environment and then is transferred from the first environment to the second environment; or wherein the wafer is initially transferred from the first environment to the second environment; wherein the wafer is bathed in the second environment, the temperature of the second environment is lower than the temperature of the first environment, and further comprising continuing to bath the wafer surface with the gas until the wafer surface temperature falls below temperatures at which decomposition or sublimation of the wafer surface in the absence of the gas are significant. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprising suspending the wafer by aerodynamic forces generated by the gases bathing the wafer surface and wherein the bathing and transferring steps are repeated one or more times. 11. The method of claim 9 further comprising heating the gas bathing the wafer surface so that the rate of wafer-surface temperature decrease is such that significant thermal damage to the wafer is unlikely. 12. A method for transferring semiconductor wafers in a semiconductor processing equipment, wherein the semiconductor processing equipment comprises a transfer device according to claim 1, wherein a wafer is transferred between a first epitaxial growth environment where the wafer resides during periods of epitaxial growth and a second transfer environment where the wafer resides during other periods, and wherein the temperature of the epitaxial growth environment is higher than the temperature of the transfer environment, the method comprising: providing a wafer in the transfer environment; suspending the wafer beneath the transfer device in the transfer environment by flowing onto a surface of a wafer one or more gases from the plurality of gas outlet ports in the support member of the transfer device, the gases comprising an active portion that is chemically reactive with the wafer surface so as to limit decomposition or sublimation of the surface; controlling the temperature of the suspended wafer towards the higher temperature of the epitaxial growth environment by heating the transfer device and the gases flowing within the device by means of the heating elements of the transfer device, wherein the temperature is controlled so that the rate of wafer-surface temperature increase is such that significant thermal damage to the wafer is unlikely; transferring the suspended wafer from the transfer environment to the epitaxial growth environment; and depositing the wafer in the epitaxial growth environment by ceasing the flow of gases bathing the wafer. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the active portion of the gas results from at least partial pyrolytic decomposition above a threshold temperature, and further comprising heating the gases flowing within the device by means of the heating elements to above the threshold temperature so as to cause such pyrolytic decomposition. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising continuing to bath the wafer surface with the gases in the epitaxial growth environment until significant decomposition or sublimation of the wafer surface in the absence of the gas is unlikely. 15. A method for transferring semiconductor wafers in a semiconductor processing equipment, wherein the semiconductor processing equipment comprises a transfer device according to claim 1, wherein a wafer is transferred between a first epitaxial growth environment where the wafer resides during periods of epitaxial growth and a second transfer environment where the wafer resides during other periods, and wherein the temperature of the epitaxial growth environment is higher than the temperature of the transfer environment, the method comprising: providing a wafer in the epitaxial growth environment; heating the transfer device and the one or more gases flowing within the device towards the higher temperature of the epitaxial growth environment by means of the heating elements of the transfer device, the gases comprising an active portion that is chemically reactive with the wafer surface so as to limit decomposition or sublimation of a surface of a suspended wafer; suspending the wafer beneath the transfer device wafer in the epitaxial growth environment by flowing the gases onto a surface of the wafer from the plurality of gas outlet ports in the support member of the transfer device; and transferring the suspended wafer from the epitaxial growth environment to the transfer environment while preventing significant decomposition or sublimation of the wafer surface. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the active portion of the gas results from at least partial pyrolytic decomposition above a threshold temperature, and further comprising heating the gases flowing within the device by means of the heating elements to above the threshold temperature so as to cause such pyrolytic decomposition. 17. The method of claim 15 further comprising: controlling the temperature of the suspended wafer towards the lower temperature of the transfer environment by decreasing the heating of the transfer device at a rate such that significant thermal damage to the wafer is unlikely; and depositing the wafer in the transfer environment by ceasing the flow of gases bathing the wafer. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising continuing to bath the wafer surface in the transfer environment with the gases until the wafer surface temperature falls below temperatures at which decomposition or sublimation of the wafer surface in the absence of the gases are significant. 19. The method of claim 15 further comprising: maintaining the temperature of the suspended wafer towards the higher temperature of the epitaxial growth environment by continuing to heat the transfer device and the gases flowing within by means of the heating elements of the transfer device; continuing to flow the gases onto a surface of a wafer in the transfer environment so as to prevent significant decomposition or sublimation of the wafer surface; transferring the suspended wafer from the transfer environment back to the epitaxial growth environment; and depositing the wafer in the epitaxial growth environment by ceasing the flow of gases bathing the wafer. 20. The method of claim 15 further comprising continuing to bath the wafer surface with the gas until the wafer surface temperatures are such that significant thermal damage to the wafer is unlikely in the second environment. 