To provide for portability in the stress testing of electronic components in a high temperature environment, an instrumentation control module having an enclosure for containing the driver electronics which generates signals for operating the electronic components for stress testing may be used. The control module, in particular, has an enclosure for containing a driver card, which has either mounted thereon or integrated thereto the electronics necessary to drive the electronic components, mounted onto a carrier card which is mated to the driver card, by means of connectors, also residing within the enclosure, so as to avoid being exposed to the heat in the high temperature environment. To further insure that no heat would escape from the high temperature environment into the enclosure, a seal gasket is attached to the outside of the enclosure, at the opening where the carrier card is extended from the enclosure and mated with the connector therein. By incorporating a programmable bar code display into the enclosure, the control module truly achieves portability as the same may be independently monitored.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of stress testing electronic components, comprising steps of: automatically removing a module containing to be tested electronic components from a storage area, the module including: a carrier card carrying thereon said electronic components; a driver card containing driver electronics for generating signals to activate said electronic components; and an enclosure for substantially enveloping said driver card; automatically moving said module across an ambient temperature transfer area; automatically inserting said carrier card of said module through an opening of a barrier into a high temperature section separated by said barrier from said transfer area for testing said electronic components; wherein said removing, moving and inserting steps are all performed absent human intervention; withdrawing said module away from said high temperature section; and reading data related to said electronic components having been stress tested in said high temperature section from a display means integrated to said enclosure of said module. 2. System for stress testing electronic components, comprising: at least one high temperature section; a transfer section having a first end separated from said high temperature section by an interface barrier; a storage section adjacent to a second end of said transfer section; at least one module including: a carrier card carrying thereon to-be-stress-tested electronic components; a driver card containing electronic circuits for generating signals to activate said electronic components carried on said carrier card; an enclosure for housing said driver card and for providing easy handling and movement of said module; connecting means positioned within one end of said enclosure for mating said carrier card to said driver card; seal means positioned outside of said enclosure and encircling a portion of said carrier card for isolating said connecting means from the environment to which said carrier card is exposed; means for grasping said module by said enclosure and moving said module from said storage section adjacent to said transfer section and adjacent to said high temperature section, said grasping and moving means further guiding said carrier card into said high temperature section through a slot in said interface barrier, said enclosure remaining in said adjacent transfer section for effectively urging said seal means against the area of said interface barrier surrounding said slot to substantially prevent heat within said high temperature section from escaping into said transfer section or said enclosure and shield said connecting means from being exposed to the heat from said high temperature section. 3. System according to claim 2, further comprising: means integrated to said enclosure for circulating cool air into said enclosure to maintain an ambient temperature environment within the enclosure. 4. System according to claim 2, wherein said connecting means comprises: at least one pair of jointed connectors one of which is mated to said carrier card and the other of which is mated to said driver card. 5. System according to claim 2, wherein said seal means comprises a silicone rubber gasket. 6. System according to claim 2, further comprising: display means integrated into said enclosure for outputting information relating to said electronic components having been stress tested in said high temperature section. 7. System according to claim 2, wherein said interface barrier has a trap door over said slot for preventing heat in said high temperature section from escaping into said transfer section when said module has not been moved adjacent to said high temperature section; and wherein said carrier card has means extending therealong for keeping said trap door open when the said carrier card is being inserted into said high temperature section. 8. System according to claim 2, wherein said enclosure comprises: means for coupling to a power source to obtain power therefrom to operate said electronic circuits to drive said electronic components during stress testing of the same. 9. System for stress testing electronic components, comprising: at least one high temperature chamber; a storage chamber; an ambient temperature chamber sandwiched between said storage chamber and said high temperature chamber, and separated from said high temperature chamber by a barrier having at least one opening; at least one module movable in said storage and ambient temperature chambers, wherein said module comprises: an enclosure; card means having a first portion located within said enclosure and a second portion extending out of an open end of said enclosure, said second portion having mounted thereto electronic components to be stress tested and said first portion having mounted thereto electronic circuits for generating signals to drive said electronic components; seal means encircling said card means at the open end of said enclosure; means for automatically retrieving said module from said storage chamber by grasping said enclosure and maneuvering said enclosure across said ambient temperature chamber against said barrier to intimately urge said seal means to the area surrounding said opening in said barrier and to insert said second portion of said card means into said high temperature chamber for stress testing said electronic components; whereby said seal means prevents heat in said high temperature chamber from escaping into said enclosure or said ambient temperature section. 10. System according to claim 9, further comprising: means integrated to said enclosure for circulating cool air therein to maintain an ambient temperature environment within said enclosure. 11. System according to claim 9, wherein said seal means comprises a silicone rubber gasket. 12. System according to claim 9, further comprising: display means integrated to said enclosure for providing information relating to said electronic components having been stress tested in said high temperature chamber. 13. System according to claim 9, wherein said enclosure comprises: means for coupling to a power source to obtain power therefrom to operate said electronic circuits to drive electronic components during stress testing of the same. 14. System according to claim 9, wherein said card means comprises at least two cards one corresponding to said first portion and the other corresponding to said second portion. 15. System for stress testing electronic components, comprising: at least one storage chamber; at least one high temperature chamber; a section sandwiched between said storage chamber and said high temperature chamber, said section separated from said high temperature chamber by a barrier; at least one module including an enclosure containing a driver card mated to a carrier card at one end of said enclosure, said driver card carrying thereon to-be-stress-tested electronic components, said driver card having means thereon for generating signals to drive said electronic components during stress testing of the same; robot means located within said section for grasping and positioning said enclosure, and thereby transporting said module towards said barrier until said carrier card carrying the electronic components is inserted into said high temperature chamber through an aperture in said barrier; wherein said module further includes seal means encircling the portion of said carrier card outside the end of said enclosure where said driver card is mated to said carrier card for intimately sealing the area surrounding said aperture in said barrier when said enclosure of said module is positioned by said robot means such that said one end of said enclosure is pushed against said barrier when said carried cards is inserted into said high temperature chamber to prevent heat in said high temperature chamber from escaping into either said module or said section. 16. System according to claim 15, wherein said driver card is mated to said carrier card via a pair of jointed connectors one of which is mated to said driver card and the other of which is mated to said carrier card. 