A device is provided for spraying an anti-corrosion agent into the hollow spaces of a vehicle body wherein one spraying nozzle, selected from a set of spraying nozzles which are each specific to a portion of the vehicle body, can be selectively coupled fluidically and mechanically by means of a quick change slip-on coupling to a spraying nozzle holder apparatus. To facilitate quick spraying nozzle changes by one hand operation and to make it possible to employ robots for the purpose of changing nozzles, all spraying nozzles are retained next to one another in a defined manner by retainers on a support so as to be fixed but detachable from said retainers. This arrangement permits the coupling component part of each nozzle to be easily accessible to the spraying nozzle holder apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spraying arrangement for accommodating spraying of a variety of surfaces having different geometric shape configurations utilizing a plurality of differently configured spraying nozzle means and a common spray medium supply line comprising: movable nozzle holder means capable of being selectively coupled with one of said nozzle means, said nozzle holder means being fluidly communicable with a source of fluid spray medium, quick change coupling means for fluidly and mechanically coupling said movable nozzle holder means with said one nozzle means, said coupling means comprising a first portion on said nozzle holder means and a second portion on said nozzle means, and nozzle retainer means for holding said nozzle means in a fixed position, said one nozzle means being capable of being removed from said nozzle retainer means after coupling with said nozzle holder means, wherein said retainer means prevent radial and axial displacement of said nozzle means, wherein said retainer means prevent rotational displacement of said nozzle means, including depositing means provided on said nozzle holder means for depositing said nozzle means in said retainer means, wherein said depositing means comprises depositing tongue means extending below said spraying nozzle means. 2. A spraying arrangment for accommodating spraying of a variety of surface having different geometric shape configurations utilizing a plurality of differently configured spraying nozzle means and a common spray medium supply line comprising: movable nozzle holder means capable of being selectively coupled with one of said nozzle means, said nozzle holder means being fluidly communicable with a source of fluid spray medium, quick change coupling means for fluidly and mechanically coupling said movable nozzle holder means with said one nozzle means, said coupling means comprising a first portion on said nozzle holder means and a second portion on said nozzle means, and nozzle retainer means for holding said nozzle means in a fixed position, said one nozzle means being capable of being removed from said nozzle retainer means after coupling with said nozzle holder means, said quick-change coupling means comprises an axially displaceable sleeve means connected to said nozzle holder means, wherein said axially displaceable sleeve means is provided with radially extending collar means and said retainer means is provided with longitudinally extending stop means for axially displacing said axially displaceable sleeve means on said nozzle holder means through physical contact with said collar means when said one nozzle means is inserted into said nozzle retainer means, to thereby uncouple said nozzle holder means and said one nozzle means. 3. An arrangement according to claim 2, further comprising programmable control means for controlling said movable nozzle holder means, wherein said programmable control means comprises robotic means. 4. A spraying arrangement according to claim 2, wherein said one nozzle means are capable of dispensing a viscous fluid for treating said surfaces. 5. A spraying arrangement according to claim 2, further comprising locking means for preventing relative rotation between said nozzle means and said nozzle means. 6. A spraying arrangement according to claim 5, wherein said locking means is located on said nozzle holder means. 7. A spraying arrangement according to claim 2, wherein said coupling means includes means for preventing relative rotation of said first portion and of said second portion. 8. A spraying arrangement for accommodating spraying of a variety of surfaces having different geometric shape configurations utilizing a plurality of differently configured spraying nozzle means and a common spray medium supply line comprising: movable nozzle holder means capable of being selectively coupled with one of said nozzle means, said nozzle holder means being fluidly communicable with a source of fluid spray medium, quick change coupling means for fluidly and mechanically coupling said movable nozzle holder means with said one nozzle means, said coupling means comprising a first portion on said nozzle holder means and a second portion on said nozzle means, and nozzle retainer means for holding said nozzle means in a fixed position, said one nozzle means being capable of being removed from said nozzle retainer means after coupling with said nozzle holder means, said quick-change coupling means comprises an axially displaceable sleeve means connected to said nozzle holder means, including piston means mounted in said nozzle holder means, said piston means being directly attached to said axially displaceable sleeve means for axially displacing said sleeve means. 9. An arrangement according to claim 8, further comprising programmable control means for controlling said movable nozzle holder means, wherein said programmable control means comprises robotic means. 10. A spraying arrangement according to claim 8, wherein said nozzle means are capable of dispensing a viscous fluid for treating said surfaces. 11. A spraying arrangement according to claim 8, further comprising locking means for locking said quick change coupling means. 12. A spraying arrangement according to claim 11, wherein said locking means is located on said nozzle holder means. 13. A spraying arrangement according to claim 8, wherein said coupling means includes means for preventing relative rotation of said first portion and of said second portion. 