A method of producing a sound insulation molding with mass and spring, wherein both mass and spring are produced on the basis of the same material, in particular polyurethane. For the formation of a mass, reaction substances and fillers are brought into a mold, in particular sprayed in or injected, and brought to reaction. The spraying in or injection is thereby controlled such that the reaction substances and the fillers are supplied in locally different quantity and/or composition into the mold, dependent upon the sound damping to be locally achieved together with the spring, which is then formed on the so-formed mass in the same mold through formation of foam. Through this, with surfaces to be sound insulated which are of the same geometry, three-dimensional moldings of the same geometry can be produced with both different acoustic and also mechanical behavior in predetermined series.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of producing a sound insulation molding comprising a mass and a spring formed of the same material for sound insulating a surface, said method comprising the steps of: (a) determining local areas of said surface that require different degrees of sound damping to control sound transfer; (b) introducing reaction substances and fillers into a mold and reacting the reaction substances to form a mass of foam, wherein the mass has two layers that each vary in thickness and/or composition in local areas of the mold to vary local acoustic and mechanical characteristics of the sound insulation, wherein the mass has a weight per unit area of 1 kg/m.sup.2 to 4.5 kg/m.sup.2 at thicknesses of 0.5 mm to 10 mm and wherein said local areas of the mold correspond to said local areas of said surface and wherein said mass layer has a relatively higher weight per unit area due to fillers and wherein said spring has a relatively low weight per unit area due to a relatively lower proportion of fillers; and, (c) forming said foam spring on the mass in the same mold using the same reaction substances as used to form the mass. 2. Method according to claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises spraying the reaction substances and fillers against a decorative part previously placed in the mold to form the mass. 3. Method according to claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises spraying the reaction substances and the fillers into the mold by physically separate spraying devices. 4. Method according to claim 1, wherein step (b) comprises spraying the reaction substances and the fillers into the mold by a single spraying device that effects intermixing. 5. Method according to claim 1, comprising controlling the formation of the mass such that the reaction substances and the fillers are delivered into the mold in different quantity and/or composition in the local areas of the mold. 6. Method according to claim 1, comprising controlling the forming of the spring such that the reaction substances and the fillers are delivered into the mold in different composition and/or quantity in the local areas of the mold. 7. Method according to claim 1 comprising controlling the reaction substances and the fillers such that in the case of the mass or spring there is attained substantially a same density in the local areas of the mold as areas surrounding the local areas. 8. Method according to claim 1, comprising before, during, or after formation of the mass, bringing insulating construction elements into the mold at predetermined locations. 