The present invention relates generally to a software architecture for simulation of physical entities. The invention provides an object-oriented container based framework architecture for simulator software implementations, methods, and objects in a time domain on a distributed computer network. The invention further provides an interface system and a plug-in definition which allows compartmentalization of participants in the container and easy extensibility of the system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A computer simulation environment for simulating a physical system on a computer, comprising: a simulation container providing an execution environment for plug-in applications and communication services to other containers, the simulation container providing a run loop management function; a views container in data communication with the simulation container and graphically displaying attributes of one or more objects within the execution environment; at least one participant object instantiated in the simulation container; and an interface means, incorporated into the participant object, for communication of information between the participant object and the simulation container. 2. The computer simulation environment of claim 1 wherein the participant object includes a set of physical parameters and a motion model defined by a plug-in. 3. The computer simulation environment of claim 1 wherein the simulation container provides life cycle services to the participant object. 4. The computer simulation environment of claim 1 wherein the simulation container provides an environment object further defining the execution environment. 5. The computer simulation environment of claim 1 wherein the simulation container provides an event posting service. 6. The computer simulation environment of claim 1 wherein the views container provides a graphical representation of properties of the participant object. 7. The computer simulation environment of claim 1 wherein the views container provides a graphical representation of the properties of an environment object. 8. The computer simulation environment of claim 1 further comprising a secondary simulation container in data communication with the simulation container and the views container. 9. The computer simulation environment of claim 1 wherein the participant object communicates with a hardware device. 10. A plug-in implemented on a computer for an object oriented simulation of a physical system on the computer, comprising: a data set stored on the computer defining physical parameters of a physical entity; a model implemented on the computer defining operational characteristics of the physical entity; a scenario generator means implemented on the computer to modify the data set; and an interface implemented on the computer facilitating communication between the physical entity and a simulation container, wherein the simulation container provides an execution environment for plug-in applications and communication services to other containers residing on the computer, the simulation container providing a run loop management function. 11. The plug-in of claim 10 further comprising: an inspector definition to define allowable changes in the physical parameters of the physical entity. 12. The plug-in of claim 10 further comprising: a display set to define graphical display parameters for display of data related to the physical parameters of the physical entity. 13. The plug-in of claim 10 further comprising: a display set to define graphical display parameters for display of data related to the operational characteristics. 14. The plug-in of claim 10 where the scenario generator means creates an extensible XML text file as the data set. 15. A method of creating a simulation container for simulating a physical system on a computer, comprising the steps of: providing a scenario generator on the computer; activating the scenario generator to create a plug-in library, the plug-in library being related to at least one participant object and at least one simulation container property; loading the plug-in library into a scenario loader on the computer; the scenario loader instantiating the simulation container on the computer and loading the plug-in library into the simulation container; the simulation container providing an execution environment for plug-in applications and providing communication services to other containers residing on the computer; and instantiating a participant object on the computer using a plug-in from the plug-in library loaded in the simulation container. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the plug-in includes initial conditions. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the plug-in library is defined in an XML text file. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein the participant object defines attributes of a physical object. 19. The method of claim 15 wherein the step of instantiating the simulation container further comprises instantiating an environment object. 20. The method of claim 15 wherein the step of instantiating the simulation container further comprises instantiating a view object. 