An overload detection device (100) adapted for mounting between the end of a robot arm (104) and tooling (106) employs an interlocking pneumatic chamber subassembly (1) and a stemmed plate (2) pneumatically secured in a unique "engaging registration" relationship under normal loading conditions. An annular metal bearing member (16) fixed to the chamber subassembly (1) has an elevated sealing surace (56) which provides an airtight seal only when the components are in engaging registration. An excessive load upsets the engaging registration relationship allowing air to immediately escape and the normally rigid coupling provided by the overload detection device (100) to become compliant. The reduction in pressure is concurrently sensed by a specially designed, externally mounted removable pressure sensor (3). The pressure sensor (3) includes a small snap-acting electrical switch (24) which is actuated by a loose fitting unsealed piston (27). A switch trip-point adjustment screw (34) is installed on the central axis of the piston (27). An electrical output signal from the pressure sensor (3) can be directly connected to the Emergency Stop Circuit of the robot to halt movement of the robot arm when an overload is detected.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An overload detection device adapted to be positioned intermediate tooling and an end of a robot arm for detecting excessive loading and protecting the tooling and robot arm against damage resulting therefrom, comprising: a pressurized fluid chamber assembly including a housing having a central bore concentric with a central axis of the chamber assembly, a cover plate closing one end of said bore, and an annular end plate overlying an opposite end of said bore, the annular end plate having a central opening therethrough concentric with the central axis, said opening having a radial extent less than that of the bore; a stemmed plate having a central axis, the stemmed plate comprising a plate member located within the bore, said plate member having a radial extent intermediate that of the opening in the annular end plate and the bore of the housing, the plate member having a stem extending axially beyond a first face of the plate member such that the stem protrudes out of the chamber assembly through the opening in the annular end plate, said first face of the plate member and an inner face of the annular end plate comprising opposing faces; means for relatively positioning the chamber assembly and stemmed plate into engaging registration with their central axes coincident and with a predetermined unique rotational angular relationship therebetween; a non-compressive annular bearing member fixed to one of said opposing faces, said bearing member having a raised surface configured to fit flush against a portion of the other of said opposing faces to create a fluid tight seal therebetween only when the chamber assembly and stemmed plate are in engaging registration; means for controllably applying fluid pressure to the plate member to maintain the chamber assembly and stemmed plate in engaging registration with a force designed to maintain a rigid coupling therebetween under normal operating loads; and sensor means for sensing a loss of said engaging registration and providing an output signal indicative thereof, whereby a load in excess of said normal operating loads will force the chamber assembly and stemmed plate out of engaging registration allowing fluid to escape between the opposed faces and the coupling to become compliant, and causing the sensor means to provide said output signal. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein the annular bearing member, plate member and bore are dimensioned to prevent damage to the raised surface and to said portion of the other of said opposing faces when the chamber assembly and stemmed plate are out of engaging registration. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein the means for relatively positioning the chamber assembly and the stemmed plate into engaging registration comprises: a first dimple-like depression in the first face of the plate member; a second dimple-like depression in the first face of the plate member, said second dimple-like depression being angularly offset from said first dimple-like depression by an angle other than 180.degree.; and first and second hemispherical-end screws angularly offset by the same angle as the first and second dimple-like depressions, said first and second hemispherical-end screws being threaded through the annular end plate to engage the first and second dimple-like depressions, respectively. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein said first depression is cone-shaped and the second depression has an elongated cone-shape, said second depression having an elongation extending in a direction defined by a line from the first depression through the second depression. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein the offset angle comprises an angle close to 180 ; and further comprising means for locking each hemispherical-end screw in a position such that all clearance between a hemispherical-end of the screw and the depression engaged by the screw is removed. 6. The device of claim 5 wherein each of said depressions and the hemispherical-end of each of said screws has a hardened surface, and wherein a high pressure lubricant is applied to said hardened surfaces. 7. The device of claim 2 wherein the one of said opposing faces to which the bearing member is fixed comprises an inner face of the annular end plate, the other of said opposing faces comprises the first face of the plate member, and wherein the annular bearing member is integral with the annular end plate. 8. The device of claim 7 wherein the annular end plate is constructed of a strong lightweight metal material and the annular bearing member is machined out of said metal material. 9. The device of claim 8 wherein the raised surface of the bearing member and the portion of the first face of the plate member engaged by said raised surface are machined to close tolerances to ensure a fluid tight seal therebetween. 10. The device of claim 9 wherein the raised surface of the bearing member is flat and is provided with a hard finishing coating. 11. The device of claim 10 wherein the means for relatively positioning the chamber assembly and the stemmed plate into engaging registration comprises: a first dimple-like depression in the first face of the plate member; a second dimple-like depression in the first face of the plate member, said second dimple-like depression being angularly offset from said first dimple-like depression by an angle other than 180.degree.; and first and second hemispherical-end screws angularly offset by the same angle as the first and second dimple-like depressions, said first and second hemispherical-end screws being threaded through the annular end plate to engage the first and second dimple-like depressions, respectively; and wherein the hemispherical-end screws are radially interior of said annular bearing member. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a fluid-permeable resilient collar surrounding a portion of the stem external of said chamber assembly to prevent matter from entering the opening in the annular end plate. 13. The device of claim 12 wherein said fluid comprises air and wherein said collar is composed of material which provides a low resistance to airflow and exhibits a high-temperature resistance. 14. The device of claim 10 further comprising a mounting adapter plate and means for firmly securing the mounting adapter plate to an end of the stem remote from the plate member. 15. The device of claim 7 further comprising means for limiting rotational movement of the compliant coupling. 16. The device of claim 15 wherein the means for limiting rotational movement comprises: a shaped block extending along the central axis of the chamber assembly, said block being fixed to the cover plate; and a cavity extending along the central axis of the stemmed plate through the plate member and into the stem, said cavity being configured and dimensioned to receive and allow only limited rotation of the block therein. 17. The device of claim 16 wherein the block is provided with a central aperture and a spring is mounted in said aperture, said spring serving to provide an initial spring-bias to the stemmed plate in a direction away from the cover plate. 18. The device of claim 1 wherein said sensor means comprises a removable pressure sensor externally mounted to the chamber assembly, said pressure sensor being in fluid communication with a pressurized fluid chamber formed within the chamber assembly, the pressure sensor detecting a reduction in fluid pressure in the chamber when fluid escapes between the opposing faces due to excessive loading, and providing an output signal indicative thereof. 19. The device of claim 18 wherein said pressure sensor comprises: a snap-acting electrical switch having normally open electrical contacts; a loose fitting unsealed piston axially aligned with an actuator of the electrical switch, said piston responding to the controllably applied fluid pressure in the chamber by displacing the switch actuator a sufficient distance to cause the normally open contacts of the electrical switch to move to a closed position; and a low force switch actuator return spring which displaces the piston sufficiently to allow the closed contacts of the electrical switch to return to an open state when a reduction in the fluid pressure in the chamber occurs. 20. The device of claim 19 wherein the pressure sensor further includes a switch trip-point adjustment screw installed on a central axis of the piston to allow for adjustment of the effective length of the piston. 21. The device of claim 12 wherein the sensor means comprises a removable pressure sensor externally mounted to the chamber assembly, said pressure sensor being in fluid communication with a pressurized fluid chamber formed within the chamber assembly, the pressure sensor detecting a reduction in fluid pressure in the chamber when fluid escapes between the opposing faces due to excessive loading, and providing an output signal indicative thereof, the pressure sensor comprising: a snap-acting electrical switch having normally open electrical contacts; a loose fitting unsealed piston axially aligned with an actuator of the electrical switch, said piston responding to the controllably applied fluid pressure in the chamber by displacing the switch actuator a sufficient distance to cause the normally open contacts of the electrical switch to move to a closed position; and a low force switch actuator return spring which displaces the piston sufficiently to allow the closed contacts of the electrical switch to return to an open state when a reduction in the fluid pressure in the chamber occurs. 22. The device of claim 21 wherein the bore is cylindrical; the plate member comprises a disc; the sensor comprises a pneumatic pressure sensor; and the pressure sensor further includes a switch trip-point adjustment screw installed on a central axis of the piston to allow for adjustment of the effective length of the piston. 23. The device of claim 22 wherein the first face of the disc is flat and orthogonal to the central axis of the stemmed plate; and wherein at least a portion of the disc has a dimension in a direction parallel to the central axis of the stemmed plate which diminishes as distance from said central axis increases. 