A robotic surgery system for supporting a patient and a robotic surgical manipulator. The robotic surgery system includes a base, a pillar coupled to the base at a first end and extending vertically upward to an opposing second end, and an attachment structure coupled to the second end of the pillar. A patient table is coupled to the attachment structure. A robot support arm has a first end coupled to the attachment structure. The robot support arm extends vertically upward and then horizontally over the patient table. A robotic surgical manipulator supported by the horizontal portion of the robot support arm will extend generally downward from the robot support arm toward a patient supported by the patient table to place an end effector of the robotic surgical manipulator adjacent a desired surgical site on the patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgery system for supporting a patient and a robotic surgical manipulator, the robotic surgery system comprising: a base; a pillar coupled to the base at a first end and extending vertically upward to an opposing second end; an attachment structure coupled to the second end of the pillar; a patient table coupled to the attachment structure; and a robot support arm having a first end coupled to the attachment structure with a sliding connection that allows the robot support arm to be moved along an axis of the attachment structure parallel to an upper surface of the patient table, the robot support arm extending upward and then over the patient table to a second end such that a robotic surgical manipulator supported adjacent the second end of the robot support arm will extend generally downward from the robot support arm toward a patient supported by the patient table to place an end effector of the robotic surgical manipulator adjacent a desired surgical site on the patient. 2. The robotic surgery system of claim 1 wherein the attachment structure is coupled to the second end of the pillar with a pivotal connection that allows the attachment structure to be placed at an angle to the vertical axis of the pillar. 3. The robotic surgery system of claim 1 wherein the first end of the robot support arm is coupled to the attachment structure such that the portion of the robot support arm extending upward is not perpendicular to an upper surface of the attachment structure. 4. The robotic surgery system of claim 1 wherein the first end of the robot support arm is coupled to the attachment structure with a sliding connection in the form of a telescoping structure that allows a length of the portion of the robot support arm extending upward to be adjusted. 5. The robotic surgery system of claim 1 further comprising a robot support bar pivotally coupled to the robot support arm adjacent the second end, the robotic surgical manipulator and a second robotic surgical manipulator being coupled to the robot support bar. 6. A robotic surgery system for supporting a patient and a robotic surgical manipulator, the robotic surgery system comprising: a base; a pillar coupled to the base at a first end and extending vertically upward to an opposing second end; an attachment structure coupled to the second end of the pillar; means for supporting a patient coupled to the attachment structure; and means for supporting a robotic surgical manipulator coupled to the attachment structure with a sliding means for moving the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator along an axis of the attachment structure parallel to an upper surface of the means for supporting the patient, the robotic surgical manipulator being supported to extend generally downward toward the patient to place an end effector of the robotic surgical manipulator adjacent a desired surgical site on the patient. 7. The robotic surgery system of claim 6 wherein the attachment structure is coupled to the second end of the pillar with a pivotal connection that allows the attachment structure to be placed at an angle to the vertical axis of the pillar. 8. The robotic surgery system of claim 6 wherein the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator is coupled to the attachment structure such that a portion of the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator extends upwardly from an upper surface of the attachment structure and is not perpendicular to the upper surface. 9. The robotic surgery system of claim 6 wherein the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator is coupled to the attachment structure with a telescoping means for raising the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator relative to the means for supporting the patient. 10. The robotic surgery system of claim 6 wherein the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator is further for supporting a second robotic surgical manipulator and further for rotating the robotic surgical manipulator and the second robotic surgical manipulator relative to the means for supporting the patient. 11. A robotic surgery system for supporting a patient and robotic surgical manipulators, the robotic surgery system comprising: a base; a pillar coupled to the base at a first end and extending vertically upward to an opposing second end; an attachment structure coupled to the second end of the pillar; a patient table coupled to the attachment structure; a robot support arm having a first end coupled to the attachment structure, the robot support arm extending upward and then over the patient table to a second end such that robotic surgical manipulators supported adjacent the second end of the robot support arm will extend generally downward from the robot support arm toward a patient supported by the patient table to place an end effector of a robotic surgical manipulator adjacent a desired surgical site on the patient; and a robot support bar pivotally coupled to the robot support arm adjacent the second end, a first robotic surgical manipulator and a second robotic surgical manipulator being coupled to the robot support bar. 12. The robotic surgery system of claim 11 wherein the attachment structure is coupled to the second end of the pillar with a pivotal connection that allows the attachment structure to be placed at an angle to the vertical axis of the pillar. 13. The robotic surgery system of claim 11 wherein the first end of the robot support arm is fixed to the attachment structure such that the portion of the robot support arm extending upward is not perpendicular to an upper surface of the attachment structure. 14. The robotic surgery system of claim 11 wherein the first end of the robot support arm is coupled to the attachment structure with a sliding connection that allows the robot support arm to be moved along an axis of the attachment structure parallel to an upper surface of the patient table. 15. The robotic surgery system of claim 11 wherein the first end of the robot support arm is coupled to the attachment structure with a sliding connection in the form of a telescoping structure that allows a length of the portion of the robot support arm extending upward to be adjusted. 16. A robotic surgery system for supporting a patient and robotic surgical manipulators, the robotic surgery system comprising: a base; a pillar coupled to the base at a first end and extending vertically upward to an opposing second end; an attachment structure coupled to the second end of the pillar; means for supporting a patient coupled to the attachment structure; and means for supporting a first robotic surgical manipulator and a second robotic surgical manipulator coupled to the attachment structure, the first and second robotic surgical manipulators being supported to extend generally downward toward the patient to place an end effector of the robotic surgical manipulator adjacent a desired surgical site on the patient and to rotate relative to the means for supporting the patient. 17. The robotic surgery system of claim 16 wherein the attachment structure is coupled to the second end of the pillar with a pivotal connection that allows the attachment structure to be placed at an angle to the vertical axis of the pillar. 18. The robotic surgery system of claim 16 wherein the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator is fixed to the attachment structure such that a portion of the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator extends upwardly from an upper surface of the attachment structure and is not perpendicular to the upper surface. 19. The robotic surgery system of claim 16 wherein the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator is coupled to the attachment structure with a sliding means for moving the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator along an axis of the attachment structure parallel to an upper surface of the means for supporting the patient. 20. The robotic surgery system of claim 16 wherein the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator is coupled to the attachment structure with a telescoping means for raising the means for supporting the robotic surgical manipulator relative to the means for supporting the patient. 