Disclosed herein are apparatuses and methods for conducting multiple simultaneous micro-volume chemical and biochemical reactions in an array format. In one embodiment, the format comprises an array of microholes in a substrate. Besides serving as an ordered array of sample chambers allowing the performance of multiple parallel reactions, the arrays can be used for reagent storage and transfer, library display, reagent synthesis, assembly of multiple identical reactions, dilution and desalting. Use of the arrays facilitates optical analysis of reactions, and allows optical analysis to be conducted in real time. Included within the invention are kits comprising a microhole apparatus and a reaction component of the method(s) to be carried out in the apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for simultaneously conducting a plurality of sequence-specific micro-volume polynucleotide amplification reactions to provide molecular haplotype information for a target nucleic acid sequence, the method comprising: (a) introducing a plurality of liquid samples comprising a target nucleic acid into the sample chambers of a microhole apparatus, wherein the liquid samples are terminally diluted, such that on average, some of the sample chambers contain exactly one copy of the target nucleic acid, and wherein the chambers contain necessary polynucleotide amplification reaction components; (b) submerging the microhole apparatus in a hydrophobic medium during the plurality of micro-volume polynucleotide amplification reactions; and (c) placing the submerged microhole apparatus into an environment favorable to simultaneously conducting a plurality of sequence-specific micro-volume polynucleotide amplification reactions on the plurality of liquid samples, wherein the microhole apparatus comprises a substrate, wherein the substrate is solid and defines a plurality of sample chambers, wherein each sample chamber: (i) extends through the substrate; (ii) comprises one or more walls and an opening at each end; and (iii) holds a sample such that the sample is retained in the apparatus through surface tension and such that (i) a liquid sample present in one sample chamber does not intermix with a liquid sample present in another sample chamber and (ii) the liquid samples are maintained in the sample chambers when the microhole apparatus is submerged in the hydrophobic medium. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein a sequence-specific probe is used to detect a genetic polymorphism. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (c) further comprises placing the apparatus into an environment favorable to the polynucleotide amplification. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the environment is selected from the group consisting of a hydrophobic medium and a humidified chamber. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the liquid samples are maintained in the sample chambers when the microhole apparatus is submerged in a hydrophobic medium for conducting the polynucleotide amplification reaction. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the polynucleotide amplification reaction is a polymerase chain reaction. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the polymerase chain reaction is used to detect a genetic polymorphism. 8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising optically monitoring progress of the reactions in the chambers. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein optically monitoring further comprises monitoring by fluorescence spectroscopy. 10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising supplementing the reactions with one or more reagents during the course of the reactions. 11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising affixing a target nucleic acid to a wall of a sample chamber by surface tension or desiccation. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of liquid samples is obtained from a single sample comprising the target nucleic acid sequence. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the single sample is a biological sample. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein the microhole apparatus contains a sequence-specific polynucleotide amplification reaction component reversibly affixed to a wall of a sample chamber. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the sequence-specific polynucleotide amplification reaction component is dissolved when the liquid sample is introduced into the sample chamber. 16. A method of determining haplotype information for a target nucleic acid sequence, the method comprising: (a) introducing a plurality of liquid samples comprising a target nucleic acid into the sample chambers of a microhole apparatus, wherein the liquid samples are terminally diluted, such that on average, some of the sample chambers contain exactly one copy of the target nucleic acid, and wherein the chambers contain necessary polynucleotide amplification reaction components; (b) submerging the microhole apparatus in a hydrophobic medium during the plurality of micro-volume polynucleotide amplification reactions; (c) placing the submerged microhole apparatus into an environment favorable to simultaneously conducting a plurality of sequence-specific micro-volume polynucleotide amplification reactions on the plurality of liquid samples; and (d) analyzing the sequence-specific micro-volume polynucleotide amplification reactions to determine haplotype information for the target nucleic acid sequence, wherein the microhole apparatus comprises a substrate, wherein the substrate is solid and defines a plurality of sample chambers, wherein each sample chamber: (i) extends through the substrate; (ii) comprises one or more walls and an opening at each end; and (iii) holds a sample such that the sample is retained in the apparatus through surface tension and such that (i) a liquid sample present in one sample chamber does not intermix with a liquid sample present in another sample chamber and (ii) the liquid samples are maintained in the sample chambers when the microhole apparatus is submerged in the hydrophobic medium. 17. The method according to claim 16, wherein a sequence-specific probe is used to detect a genetic polymorphism. 18. The method according to claim 16, wherein step (c) further comprises placing the apparatus into an environment favorable to the polynucleotide amplification. 19. The method according to claim 18, wherein the environment is selected from the group consisting of a hydrophobic medium and a humidified chamber. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the liquid samples are maintained in the sample chambers when the microhole apparatus is submerged in a hydrophobic medium for conducting the polynucleotide amplification reaction. 21. The method according to claim 16, wherein the polynucleotide amplification reaction is a polymerase chain reaction. 22. The method according to claim 21, wherein the polymerase chain reaction is used to detect a genetic polymorphism. 23. The method according to claim 16, further comprising optically monitoring progress of the reactions in the chambers. 24. The method according to claim 23, wherein optically monitoring further comprises monitoring by fluorescence spectroscopy. 25. The method according to claim 16, further comprising supplementing the reactions with one or more reagents during the course of the reactions. 26. The method according to claim 25, further comprising affixing a target nucleic acid to a wall of a sample chamber by surface tension or desiccation. 27. The method according to claim 16, wherein the plurality of liquid samples is obtained from a single sample comprising the target nucleic acid sequence. 28. The method according to claim 27, wherein the single sample is a biological sample. 29. The method according to claim 16, wherein the microhole apparatus contains a sequence-specific polynucleotide amplification reaction component reversibly affixed to a wall of a sample chamber. 30. The method according to claim 29, wherein the sequence-specific polynucleotide amplification reaction component is dissolved when the liquid sample is introduced into the sample chamber. 