Methods are disclosed for identifying agents for the treatment of cancer and/or Fanconi anemia using Xenopus egg cell free extracts from which the endogenous DNA has been removed. The assays and method described herein are easily adaptable to high throughput techniques for example to screen large numbers of agents as possible agents for the treatment of cancer and/or Fanconi anemia. Kits for carrying out the disclosed assays and methods also are disclosed. Agents identified by these methods are also disclosed as are methods for treating a subject with cancer and/or Fanconi anemia with these agents.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for identifying an agent for the treatment of cancer or Fanconi anemia comprising: contacting a Xenopus egg cell free extract depleted of endogenous DNA with an agent of interest; detecting a post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide in the Xenopus egg cell free extract; and comparing the amount of the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide to a control, wherein a difference in the amount of the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide in the cell extract contacted with the agent, as compared to the control, indicates the agent is of use for treating cancer, Fanconi anemia, or a combination thereof. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein an agent that decreases the amount of the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide as compared to the control indicates the agent is of use for treating cancer. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein an agent that increases the amount of the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide as compared to the control indicates the agent is of use for treating Fanconi anemia. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide comprises xFANCD2 or a functional fragment thereof, or xFANCM or a functional fragment thereof. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the post-translational modification comprises one or more of ubiquitination or phosphorylation. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the addition of isolated exogenous double stranded DNA comprising at least one double strand break, wherein the exogenous double stranded DNA is between 10 and 500 nucleotides in length. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the exogenous double stranded DNA comprises one or more of fragmented plasmid DNA, synthetically produced DNA, or human DNA. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the exogenous double stranded DNA comprises 5'-(dG).sub.4o-(dA).sub.3o-3' (SEQ ID NO:3) annealed to 5'-(dT).sub.3o-(dC).sub.4o-3' (SEQ ID NO:4) or a branched DNA structure comprising 5'-(dG).sub.4o-(dA).sub.3o-3' (SEQ ID NO:3), 5'-(dA).sub.30-(dC).sub.4o-3' (SEQ ID NO:5), and (dT).sub.30 (SEQ ID NO:6). 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the exogenous double stranded DNA is labeled. 10. The method of claim 6, further comprising isolating the exogenous DNA from the Xenopus eggs cell free extracts and evaluating the amount of post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide bound to the exogenous DNA. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein evaluating the amount of the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide comprises separating the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide from the non-post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide by apparent molecular weight. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein evaluating the amount of the post-translational modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide comprises using an antibody that specifically binds the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide comprises xFANCD2 and the antibody specifically binds xFANCD2. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide comprises ubiquitinated xFANCD2 and the antibody specifically binds ubiquitinated xFANCD2. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide comprises xFANCM and the antibody specifically binds xFANCM. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide comprises phosphorylated xFANCM and the antibody specifically binds phosphorylated xFANCM. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the agent is a chemical compound, a small molecule, an antibody, or an antisense nucleic acid. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises a high throughput technique. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein DNA can be replicated in the Xenopus egg cell free extract. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the Xenopus egg cell free extract is produced from Xenopus eggs synchronized in M-phase. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the control is a standard value. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the control is the amount of post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide in a Xenopus egg cell free extract depleted of endogenous DNA not treated with the agent. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein Xenopus egg cell free extracts depleted of endogenous DNA are produced by the method comprising: removing jelly in cysteine; removing cellular debris and chromatin by centrifugation; and adding media comprising creatine phosphate, adenosine triphosphate, MgC12, cytochalasin B, and 4-(2-aminoethyl)benzenesulfonylfluoride. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide comprises xFANCD2 or a functional fragment thereof, and wherein the post-translational modification is monoubiquination. 25. A method for identifying an agent for the treatment of cancer or Fanconi anemia comprising: contacting a Xenopus egg cell free extract depleted of endogenous DNA with an agent of interest; adding isolated exogenous double stranded DNA comprising at least one double strand break, wherein the exogenous double stranded DNA is between 10 and 500 nucleotides in length; detecting a post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide in the Xenopus egg cell free extract, wherein the post-translational modification comprises ubiquitination or phosphorylation; and comparing the amount of the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide to a control, wherein a difference in the amount of the post-translationally modified Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide in the cell extract contacted with the agent, as compared to the control, indicates the agent is of use for treating cancer, Fanconi anemia, or a combination thereof. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the Xenopus Fanconi anemia polypeptide comprises xFANCD2 or a functional fragment thereof, and wherein the post-translational modification is monoubiquination. 