A treatment delivery apparatus comprises a metallic object and a treatment carrier device which is connected by a heat-sensitive biodegradable connector link to the magnetic object. This carrier device contains the treatment, i.e. the drug, to be transported. An electromagnet is positioned outside of the body part for producing a magnetic field which captures the magnetic object. This electromagnet may be either a simple coil system attached to a robotic arm which moves the electromagnet adjacent the body part, or a multicoil electromagnet system surrounding the body part. In either case, the robotically moved electromagnet or multicoil electromagnet system moves the magnetic object within the body part to a desired location. A computer controls either the robotic arm or multicoil current magnitudes and directions. This computer also provides visualization for observing the location and movement of the magnetic object and carrier device. Upon reaching the desired location, the magnetic object is heated, which causes the heat-sensitive biodegradable connector link to melt, which separates the drug-containing carrier device from the magnetic object. The electromagnet means then moves the magnetic object back out of the body part. The treatment-containing carrier device remains in the desired location and the drug is delivered to the specific location.
Claims We claim: 1. The method of delivering treatment to a specific location in a body part, comprising the steps of: a) impregnating a flexible carrier means with the treatment to be delivered; b) attaching the carrier means to a magnetic object by a connection means; c) inserting the magnetic object within the body; d) magnetically coupling the magnetic object to a magnetic field of an electromagnet; e) moving the magnetic object within the body to the specific location in the body part by changing the magnetic field with the electromagnet; f) disengaging the magnetic object from the carrier means by effecting the connection means; g) directing the magnetic object back out of the body by changing the magnetic field with the electromagnet. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the impregnating step comprises immersing the carrier means in a solution containing the treatment to be delivered to the body part. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the impregnating of the carrier means comprises the step of encasing a slurry of cells within a flexible gelatin structure. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the impregnating of the carrier means comprises the step of incorporating the treatment to be delivered directly into the carrier means during the manufacture of the carrier means so that it becomes a part of the carrier means. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the connection means is a heat-sensitive biodegradable connector link, whereupon, after the magnetic object and the carrier means have been moved to the specific location in the body part, the magnetic object is activated to melt the heat-sensitive gelatin adhesive, which releases the carrier means. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of allowing the magnetic object and the carrier means to remain in the desired location for a predetermined time before disengaging the carrier means from the magnetic object. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein if during the predetermined time adverse treatment effects are noted at the desired location, the magnetic object is not disengaged from the carrier means, and wherein further the magnetic field is changed with the electromagnet, thereby directing the magnetic object and carrier means back out of the body. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of attaching a long, thin biologically inert retrieval tail to the carrier means and wherein the inert retrieval tail remains connected to the outside of the body while the carrier means is being positioned in the desired location so that the carrier means may be removed by gently pulling on the inert retrieval tail. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of allowing the magnetic object and the carrier means to remain in the desired location for a predetermined time before disengaging the carrier means from the magnetic object. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein if during the predetermined time adverse treatment effects are noted at the desired location, the magnetic object is not disengaged from the carrier means, and wherein further the magnetic object and carrier means are carefully pulled from the desired location by gently pulling on the inert retrieval tail. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the carrier means releases the treatment after being chemically activated by another substance. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the moving and directing steps comprise moving the electromagnet outside the body. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the moving and directing steps comprise changing currents in a multicoil magnet. 14. The method of cranial drug delivery, comprising the steps of: a) placement of a fixed skull position reference apparatus on a patient's skull; b) immobilizing a patient's head; c) conducting a scan of the patient's head and obtaining data from the scan and inputting the data in a computer; d) inputting data to the computer that identify vascular tubular brain structures and eloquent brain structures; e) displaying three-dimensional images of a patient's brain, vascular tubular structures, eloquent brain regions and a region of treatment; f) opening a scalp of the patient and drilling a hole in the skull of the patient; g) attaching a flexible carrier means impregnated with the treatment to be delivered to a magnetic object by using a connection means; h) inserting the magnetic object within an opening in the skull; i) placing an electromagnet near the skull of the patient; j) controlling movement of the magnetic object within the skull and brain by changing magnetic field size and direction of the electromagnet and steering the movement of the magnetic object within the skull and brain to avoid eloquent regions of the brain and vascular tubular structures and guiding the magnetic object into a specific location in the brain; k) moving the magnetic object through the specific location in the brain until the carrier means is properly positioned; l) stopping the motion and disengaging the magnetic object from the carrier means; m) moving the magnetic object away from the region while guiding the object through the brain in the safest path to the opening in the skull; n) removing the magnetic object from the skull through the opening; o) closing the opening in the skull; and p) closing the opening in the scalp. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising the step of creating a real time image created by cross-sectioning fluoroscopic images and superimposing the real time image on a predetermined image of the brain to facilitate guidance of the object. 16. The method of delivering treatment to a specific location in a body part, comprising the steps of: a) attaching a proximal end of a flexible carrier means to a magnetic object by a connection means; b) inserting the magnetic object within the body; c) magnetically coupling the magnetic object to a magnetic field of an electromagnet; d) moving the electromagnet outside the body which moves the magnetic object within the body to the specific location in the body part; e) moving the magnetic object within the body to the specific location in the body part by changing the magnetic field with the electromagnet; f) disengaging the magnetic object from the carrier means by effecting the connection means; and g) directing the magnetic object back out of the body by changing the magnetic field with the electromagnet. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the carrier means comprises a flexible hollow biodegradable tube and a further step of loading a slurry of cells into the flexible hollow tube. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising the step of attaching to the distal end of the carrier means a retrieval tail, wherein the distal end of the retrieval tail remains at a surface of the body. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the moving and directing steps comprise moving the electromagnet outside the body. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the moving and directing steps comprise changing currents in a multicoil magnet. 21. The method of delivery of a flexible implant sheath device to a specific location in a body part, comprising the steps of: a) attaching a first end of a flexible implant sheath device to a first magnetic object by a connection means; b) inserting the first magnetic object within the body; c) magnetically coupling the first magnetic object to a magnetic field of an electromagnet; d) moving the electromagnet outside the body which moves the first magnetic object within the body to the specific location in the body part; e) moving the first magnetic object within the body to the specific location in the body part by changing the magnetic field with the electromagnet; f) draping the first end of the flexible implant sheath device throughout the specific location in the body part; g) disengaging the first magnetic object from the carrier means by effecting the connection means; h) directing the first magnetic object back out of the body by changing the magnetic field with the electromagnet; and i) attaching a second end of the flexible implant sheath device to a surface of the body; wherein the first end of the sheath device is permeable and the second end is non-permeable. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of attaching a pump system and reservoir to the second end of the flexible implant sheath device. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising the steps of: pump infusing the treatment to the first end of the sheath device to determine an appropriate dose-response calculation; and chronically pump infusing the treatment. 24. The method of claim 21, further comprising the step of inserting into the second end of the sheath device, a semi-permeable flexible membrane implant which is filled with the treatment to be delivered to the specific location. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising the steps of: attaching a second magnetic object to one end of the membrane implant by a connection means; magnetically directing the membrane implant into the first end of the sheath device; disengaging the second magnetic object from the membrane implant by effecting the connecting means; and directing the second magnetic object back out of the sheath device. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising the step of allowing the second magnetic object and the membrane implant to remain in the first end of the sheath device for a predetermined time before disengaging the membrane implant from the second magnetic object. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein if during the predetermined time adverse treatment effects are noted at the specific location, the second magnetic object is not disengaged from the membrane implant, and the second magnetic object and the membrane implant are magnetically directed back out of the sheath device. 28. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of attaching a long, thin biologically inert retrieval tail to the semi-permeable membrane implant and wherein the inert retrieval tail remains connected to another end of the membrane implant while the membrane implant is being positioned in the first end of the sheath device so that the membrane implant may be removed by gently pulling on the inert retrieval tail. 29. The method of claim 28, further comprising the step of allowing the second magnetic object and the membrane implant to remain in the first end of the sheath device for a predetermined time before disengaging the membrane implant from the magnetic object. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein if during the predetermined time adverse treatment effects are noted at the desired location, the second magnetic object is not disengaged from the membrane implant, and wherein further second magnetic object and membrane implant are carefully pulled from the sheath device by gently pulling on the inert retrieval tail. 31. The method of claim 27, further comprising the step of allowing the first magnetic object and the membrane implant to remain in the specific location for the predetermined time before disengaging the membrane implant from the first magnetic object. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein if during the predetermined time adverse treatment effects are noted at the specific location, the first magnetic object is not disengaged from the carrier means, and wherein further the magnetic field is changed with the electromagnet, thereby magnetically directing the first magnetic object and sheath device and the second magnetic object and membrane implant back out of the body. 33. The method of claim 26, wherein if during the predetermined time the membrane implant is depleted of the treatment, the second magnetic object is not disengaged from the membrane implant, and the second magnetic object and membrane implant are magnetically directed back out of the sheath device. 34. The method of claim 33, further comprising the step of allowing the first magnetic object and the sheath device to remain in the specific location for the predetermined time before disengaging the sheath device from the first magnetic object. 35. The method of claim 34, wherein if during the predetermined time the treatment is depleted from the membrane implant, the first magnetic object is not disengaged from the sheath device, and wherein further the magnetic field is changed with the electromagnet, thereby magnetically directing the first magnetic object and sheath device and the second magnetic object and membrane implant back out of the body. 36. The method of claim 31, wherein the moving and directing steps comprise moving the electromagnet outside the body. 37. The method of claim 21, wherein the moving and directing steps comprise changing currents in a multicoil magnet. 