The present disclosure relates to a method and apparatus for localizing an object in space, such as a gallstone in a human, using stereo imaging and ultrasound imaging. The localization system is described in connection with a dry table shock wave lithotripter, and uses a conventional ultrasound imaging system but wherein the ultrasound transducer has been modified to enable its location in space to be readily determined automatically. This is accomplished by providing a hood fixed to this transducer, the hood having a plurality of reference points which may be in the form of light sources such as LEDs. This hood is imaged by head and foot video cameras. By calibrating the cameras with respect to a reference point, calibrating the focal point of the shock wave system with respect to the reference point, and knowing the relationship of the hood to the ultrasound transducer, the position of the stone with respect to the reference point can be determined by ultrasound imaging of the stone, along with suitable storage of the ultrasound and camera images, digitizing and processing of these images. Given this information, the patient with the stone can be suitably moved so as to position the stone at the focal point of the shock wave generating system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for gallstone localization using ultrasound imaging for enabling a gallstone to be positioned with respect to a focal point of a shock wave system comprising the steps of providing an ultrasound image of a gallstone in a patient using an ultrasound transducer by moving the ultrasound transducer adjacent the patient, detecting the position of the ultrasound transducer by imaging the transducer means by first and second cameras, said cameras means being calibrated with respect to a reference, storing images of the transducer picked up by the cameras means and processing said images, capturing said ultrasound image of the gallstone, and calculating the relationship of the gallstone with respect to the ultrasound transducer using aid ultrasound image of said gallstone and calculating the distance of the stone from the reference using said calculated relationship of the gallstone with respect to the transducer and the detected position of the transducer. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein said ultrasound transducer having a hood affixed thereto and wherein the position of the hood with respect to the ultrasound transducer is calibrated, said hood having a plurality of reference points thereon which can are detected by said cameras for determining the position of the hood with respect to the reference. 3. A method as in claim 2 wherein said reference points on said hood comprise a plurality of sources which are viewed and imaged by the cameras. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein said first and second cameras comprise a pair of video cameras which are calibrated by positioning a calibration fixture on a dry table lithotripter, said fixture including a plurality of reference points which are imaged first by one video camera and then by the other video camera to calibrate said cameras with respect to the position of the reference, the reference being defined by a World Coordinate System (WCS), and calibrating the focal point of the shock wave system with respect to the WCS. 5. A method for locating an object in a human patient using ultrasound imaging to enable the object to be positioned with respect to a focal point of a shock wave generating system and wherein the focal point of the shock wave system is calibrated with respect to reference coordinates, comprising the steps of scanning the patient with an ultrasound transducer means to provide on an ultrasound system monitor an ultrasound image of the stone in the patient imaging the position of the ultrasound transducer by stereo video cameras means and wherein the camera images the ultrasound transducer means from two different angles and wherein the camera have been calibrated with respect to the reference coordinates, capturing the ultrasound image and marking the location of the stone in the ultrasound image, and capturing images of the transducer picked up by the cameras, processing the images from the cameras to the location of the ultrasound transducer upon capture of the ultrasound image of the object, and calculating the relationship of the stone with respect to the transducer, calculating the relationship of the stone to the reference coordinates, and calculating the distance of the stone from the focal point. 6. A method as in claim 5 wherein said ultrasound transducer having affixed thereto and spaced therefrom a hood and wherein the position of the hood is calibrated with respect to the ultrasound transducer, said hood having a plurality of reference points thereon which can be detected by said cameras for determining the position of the hood with respect to the reference coordinates. 7. A method as in claim 6 wherein said cameras comprises a pair of video cameras displaced from one another and aimed in the general vicinity of the focal point, and said reference points on said hood comprise a plurality of light sources. 8. A method as in claim 7 wherein said shock wave system comprises a dry table shock wave lithotripter having a movable table upon which the patient can lay and be moved with respect to the focal point, and including the step of moving said table to position the stone at the focal point. 9. A method as in claim 8 wherein said cameras are calibrated by positioning a calibration fixture on the table of the lithotripter, said fixture including a plurality of reference points which may be imaged first by one video camera and then by the other video camera to calibrate said cameras with respect to the reference coordinates, the position of the reference coordinates being defined by a World Coordinate System (WCS), and wherein, the focal point is calibrated by imaging with said cameras a focal point target positioned at the focal point. 10. A method for locating an object within a body using ultrasound imaging to detect the position of the object in the body, comprising the steps of scanning the body with an ultrasound transducer to provide an ultrasound image of the object, imaging the position of the ultrasound transducer by stereo video cameras and wherein the cameras image the ultrasound transducer means from two different angles, the cameras being calibrated with respect to reference coordinates, capturing the ultrasound image and marking the location of the object in the image, and capturing images of the transducer picked up by the cameras, processing the images from the cameras to determine the location of the ultrasound transducer upon capture of the ultrasound image of the object, and calculating the relationship of the object with respect to the transducer using said ultrasound image of said object and calculating the relationship of the object to the reference coordinates, using said calculated relationship of the object the respect to the transducer and the detected position of the transducer. 11. A method as in claim 10 wherein said camera means comprise a pair of video cameras displaced from one another and aimed in the general vicinity of the body, said ultrasound transducer having affixed thereto a hood whose position is calibrated with respect to the ultrasound transducer, said hood having a plurality of reference points thereon which can be detected by said cameras for determining the position of the hood with respect to the reference coordinates, said reference points on said hood comprising a plurality of light sources. 12. A method as in claim 11 wherein said body is a human patient and said object is a correction such as a gallstone or kidney stone in the patient. 13. A system for localization of a stone in a human patient using ultrasound imaging of the stone for enabling the stone to be positioned with respect to a focal point of a shock wave system, and wherein the position of the focal point is calibrated with respect to reference coordinates, comprising first and second video cameras positioned with respect to a table of the system to provide separate images from the general vicinity of the focal point for providing images of an ultrasound transducer means which can be used to provide an ultrasound image of the stone, said cameras being calibrated with respect to the reference coordinates, ultrasound means including said ultrasound transducer means an circuit means for providing an ultrasound image of the stone and for enabling that image to be captured, system means connected to said video cameras for processing images of the ultrasound transducer means from said cameras and for calculating the location and orientation of the ultrasound transducer means with respect to the reference coordinates, and said ultrasound transducer means comprising an ultrasound transducer having a hood affixed thereto and wherein the position of the hood is calibrated with respect to the ultrasound transducer, said hood having a plurality of reference points thereon which can be detected and imaged by said cameras for enabling the position of the hood with respect to the reference coordinates to be determined by said system means. 14. A system as in claim 13 wherein said hood comprises an arcuate member spaced from the ultrasound transducer for enabling the ultrasound transducer to be grasped and operated by the operator while allowing a surface of the hood to be viewed by the cameras, said reference points comprising a plurality of sources on said surface which can be viewed and imaged by the cameras. 