The present invention provides new polypeptides. Said polypeptides are of use in the screening, diagnosis and prognosis of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, lung cancer, lymphoid leukaemia (particularly acute T-cell leukaemia), melanoma, osteosarcoma, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer and renal cell cancer, in monitoring the effectiveness of B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, lung cancer, lymphoid leukaemia (particularly acute T-cell leukaemia), melanoma, osteosarcoma, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer and renal cell cancer treatment, and in drug development. Also provided are antibodies (and other affinity reagents such as Affibodies) which interact with or modulate the expression or activity of the polypeptides.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method comprising administering to a patient having a cancer expressing increased levels of OGTA014, OGTA020, OGTA067, OGTA116 or OGTA194 as compared to a healthy control a composition comprising an antibody capable of specific binding to OGTA014, OGTA020, OGTA067, OGTA116 or OGTA194 as defined in SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 2, SEQ ID NO: 3, SEQ ID NO: 4 or SEQ ID NO: 5 respectively, or a fragment thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier, wherein the antibody is conjugated to a therapeutic moiety. 2. The method according to claim 1, said patient has B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, lung cancer, lymphoid leukemia, acute T-cell leukemia, melanoma, osteosarcoma, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer or renal cell cancer, or has increased likelihood of developing B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, lung cancer, lymphoid leukemia, acute T-cell leukemia, melanoma, osteosarcoma, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer or renal cell cancer. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said antibody comprises a label. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein said label is a detectable label or therapeutic moiety. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein said therapeutic moiety is selected from the group consisting of a cytotoxic moiety and a radioactive isotope. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said antibody comprises a label. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein said label is a detectable label or therapeutic moiety. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein said therapeutic moiety is selected from the group consisting of a cytotoxic moiety and a radioactive isotope . 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said antibody is a monoclonal antibody, a humanized antibody, a bispecific antibody, a non-fucosylated antibody, an antibody fragment, or an antibody mimetic. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said antibody has cytotoxicity against OGTA014, OGTA020, OGTA067, OGTA116 or OGTA194 antigen expressing cells in the presence of a human complement or in the presence of human immune effector cells. 