Target based machine vision method and apparatus are disclosed, useful for alignment of sensors and other objects affixed to structures, robots and the like. While addressed particularly to alignment of machine vision systems relative to structures, the techniques disclosed are useful with a multitude of different sensors and objects.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for locating an object mounted on a structure comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of optically visible targets on the object at known locations; mounting a TV camera for movement on a highly accurately positionable robot having a plurality of axes of motion; locating the positionable robot at a location known relative to the structure so that the position of the TV camera relative to the structure is known; moving the positionable robot to position the TV camera at a predetermined point in space known relative to the structure; viewing the targets with the TV camera; determining the location of the targets with the TV camera relative to the TV camera, and hence relative to the structure; and determining from the targets location relative to the structure the location of the object relative to the structure. 2. A method for locating an object as claimed in claim 1 wherein the positionable robot includes a computer control; and wherein the moving step includes the step of controlling the movement of the positionable robot with the computer control. 3. A method for locating an object as claimed in claim 2 wherein the controlling step includes the step of inputting data from a data base into the computer which data base represents a part to which the object will be operatively associated such that the positionable robot is moved accordingly. 4. A method for locating an object as claimed in claim 1 wherein the object is mounted to the structure by a programmable movable robot and further including the steps of determining a desired location of the object, comparing the desired location to the determined location of the object, and moving the movable robot to move the object to the desired location. 5. A method for locating an object as claimed in claim 4 wherein the moving the positionable robot step includes the step of programming the positionable robot to move accordingly. 6. A method for locating an object as claimed in claim 1 wherein the positionable robot is located on a conveying means for conveying the positionable robot; and further including the step of transferring the positionable robot to the known position relative to the structure with the conveying means. 7. A method for locating an object as claimed in claim 6 wherein there are a plurality of different structures having a plurality of respective objects; and further including the steps of conveying the positionable robot to each of the structures sequentially where the location of the respective object is then determined. 8. A method for locating a test object comprising the steps of: providing a position sensing means on a movable robot for sensing the position of the test object; sensing the position of the test object relative to the sensing means with the sensing means; providing targets on one of the sensing means and robot; determining the position of the sensing means from the sensed position of the targeted one of the sensing means and robot; and determining the location of the test object from the determined position of the sensing means and the determined position of the test object relative to the sensing means. 9. A method for locating a test object as claimed in claim 8 wherein said sensing means is a TV camera; and wherein said sensing step includes the steps of providing targets on the test object and imaging the targets with the TV camera. 10. A method for locating a test object as claimed in claim 8 and further including the steps of determining variations in a desired position of the test object and the determined position of the test object, and correcting the position of the test object from the determined position to the desired position. 