A surveillance architecture having applications in a wide variety of surveillance-related applications is disclosed. This architecture can be used in various surveillance scenarios, including, but not limited to, chemical, biological, radiological surveillance and physical security, is highly scalable and allows for rapid, plug-and-play field data/sample acquisition and local and remote sharing of system resources. By design, the architecture also fosters fault tolerance and allows users to quickly deploy and establish ad hoc, semi-permanent, and permanent surveillance systems. Furthermore, the architecture's service-oriented approach allows for rapid, on-the-fly, plug-and-play integration and dynamic harvesting of heterogeneous surveillance technologies (e.g., sensors, handheld data acquisition devices, analytical instrumentation, and so forth).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flexible, service-oriented surveillance system architecture, comprising: a network; and at least one Field Data/Sample Acquisition Device (FDSAD); wherein said FDSAD provides a service-oriented interface and is utilized by multiple users simultaneously for information collection; wherein the system architecture allows for a variety of control hierarchies; wherein said service oriented interface comprises a communication layer and a service abstraction layer; wherein said service abstraction layer allows ad-hoc networking of said FDSAD. 2. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein said FDSAD provides a local user interface, a remote user interface, or a combination thereof. 3. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein said FDSAD provides local data storage, import capabilities and export capabilities; remote data storage, import capabilities, and export capabilities, or any combination thereof. 4. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein said FDSAD provides storage capabilities for field samples, sampling supplies, other sample-related information, or any combination thereof. 5. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein said FDSAD is utilized by one or more users simultaneously for information collection. 6. An architecture as recited in claim 1, further comprising: at least one Service Station; wherein said at least one Service Station manages access, information, and data from and related to said at least one FDSAD. 7. An architecture as recited in claim 6, further comprising: one or more system resources; wherein said resources are assigned to a Service Station and are locally or remotely accessible to other Service Stations and FDSADs. 8. An architecture as recited in claim 7, wherein said resources are dynamically located by Service Stations and FDSADs. 9. An architecture as recited in claim 6, wherein said Service Station relays information from other Service Stations or FDSADs; and whereby communication ranges for Service Stations and FDSADs are extended. 10. An architecture as recited in claim 6, wherein 1-n, n-to-1, and n to-m communication between Service Stations and FDSADs is allowed. 11. An architecture as recited in claim 6, wherein Service Stations and FDSADs subscribe to and share internal, external, physical, and electronic services, or any combination thereof. 12. An architecture as recited in claim 6, further comprising: one or more local or remote systems; wherein said local or remote systems subscribe to Service Stations, FDSADS, or any combination; and wherein said local or remote systems publish multimedia streams to and from Service Stations and FDSADs. 13. An architecture as recited in claim 6, wherein said Service Station provides a local user interface, a remote user interface, or a combination thereof. 14. An architecture as recited in claim 6, wherein said Service Station provides local data storage, import capabilities and export capabilities; remote data storage, import capabilities, and export capabilities, or any combination thereof. 15. An architecture as recited in claim 6, wherein said Service Station provides storage capabilities for field samples, sampling supplies, other sample related information, or any combination thereof. 16. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein said network can be wire-based, wireless, or a combination thereof. 17. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein said service-oriented interface can be accessed via a network, a local user interface, or a combination thereof. 18. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein service-oriented interface can be access-controlled. 19. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein service-oriented interface is machine interpretable. 20. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein service-oriented interface can be electronically exchanged via said network. 21. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein services being offered via said service-oriented interface can change over time. 22. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein services being offered via said service-oriented interface can be software services, hardware services, or a combination thereof. 23. An architecture as recited in claim 1, wherein metadata is used to describe device services and data within the abstraction layer. 24. An architecture as recited in claim 23, wherein the service abstraction layer provides decoupling of the communication layer and associated device hardware from the device services. 25. A flexible, service-oriented surveillance system architecture, comprising: a network; and a plurality of devices in communication with said network; wherein the system architecture allows for a variety of control hierarchies, including single and multi-level master/slave, peer-to-peer, and time and event-based control of said devices; wherein the plurality of said devices comprises service station and a plurality of Field Data/Sample Acquisition Devices (FDSAD) which are utilized by multiple users simultaneously for information collection; wherein each said FDSAD is configured to communicate with said network regarding other devices on said network; and wherein the network is configured so a first FDSAD routes information to the service station through a second FSDSAD. 26. An architecture as recited in claim 25, wherein the Service Station has a communication range; wherein a first FDSAD located outside said communication range may routes information through a second FDSAD to said Service Station for on-the fly communication range extension. 