A pose of an object is determine by acquiring sets of images of the object by a camera, wherein the object has a thread arranged on a surface such that a local region of the object appears substantially spherical, wherein the camera is at a different point of view for each set, and wherein each image in each set is acquired while the scene is illuminated from a different direction. A set of features is extracted from each image, wherein the features correspond to points on the surface having normals towards the camera. A parametric line is fitted to the points for each image, wherein the line lies on a plane joining a center of the camera and an axis of the object. Then, geometric constraints are applied to lines to determine the pose of the object.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for determining a pose of an object, wherein the pose is a position and orientation of the object, wherein the object is specular, comprising: acquiring a plurality of sets of images of the object with a camera, wherein the object has a curved region, wherein a degree of curvature of the curved region is ##EQU00004## where r is a radius of the curved region at particular points and D is a distance between a center of the curved region and the camera, and wherein the camera is at a different point of view for each set of images, and wherein each image in each set is acquired while the scene is illuminated from a different direction; extracting a set of features from each image, wherein the features correspond to the particular points on the curved region having normals towards the camera; fitting a parametric shape to the particular points for each image; and applying geometric constraints to the parametric shape, to determine the pose of the object. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the camera is arranged on an arm of a robot, and further comprising: gripping the object according to the pose. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the camera has a set of point light sources arranged around a lens. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the illumination is from the set of point light sources, and each set of images include an ambient image acquired with ambient light, and further comprising: subtracting the ambient image from each other image in the set; determining a minimum illumination image after the subtracting; and determining a ratio image from the minimum illumination image to detect specularities. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the object is arranged in a bin with a plurality of identical objects. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein a curvature K at the particular point is k=1/r, where r is a radius. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the curvature is Gaussian and a product of principal curvatures k.sub.1k.sub.2. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the object is a screw, and the curved region corresponds to a conical and spiral-shaped thread. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the object is a bolt, and the curved region correspond to a helical thread. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the parametric shape is a line, and the line lies on a plane joining a center of the camera and an axis of the object. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the fitting uses a variant a RANdom SAmple Consensus method (RANSAC). 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the geometric constraints are rank two constraint arising from a dependency of three planes intersecting in a line is used to determine the pose of the object. 13. A system for determining a pose of an object, wherein the pose is a position and orientation of the object, wherein the object is specular, comprising: a camera for acquiring a plurality of sets of images of the object, wherein the object has a curved region, wherein a degree of curvature of the curved region is ##EQU00005## where r is a radius of the curved region at particular points and D is a distance between a center of the curved region and the camera, and wherein the camera is at a different point of view for each set of images, and wherein each image in each set is acquired while the scene is illuminated from a different direction; means for extracting a set of features from each images, wherein the features correspond to the particular points on the curved region having normals towards the camera; means for fitting a parametric shape to the particular points for each image; and means for applying geometric constraints to the parametric shape, to determine the pose of the object. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the object is arranged in a bin with a plurality of identical objects. 15. The system of claim 13, further comprising: an arm of a robot, wherein the camera is arranged on the arm; and comprising: and means for gripping the object according to the pose. 