A compliant device holding the work-piece part in an assembly, grinding, sanding or polishing process has a rotational compliance which matches the rotational compliance of a compliant device holding the work tool part or part to be assembled with the receiving part. A contact force between the two parts thus causes each part to rotate the same amount about any axis perpendicular to the direction of relative motion between the two compliant devices, thereby preserving the relative orientation of the two parts.
Claims We claim: 1. An assembly system comprising: a rotationally compliant assembly device for moving a first part relative to a second part, resulting in the assembly of the first part and the second part, said assembly device having a known compliance characteristic; and a compliant mounting support for holding said second part, the mounting support having a rotational compliance characteristic relative to the rotational compliance characteristic of said assembly device such that the first part and the second part rotate in a predetermined relative manner in response to contact between the parts during assembly. 2. The assembly system of claim 1 wherein the assembly device is for moving a first part which has a cylindrically shaped portion and the compliant mounting support is for holding a second part which has a hole into which the cylindrically shaped portion of the first part is inserted by the assembly device. 3. The automatic assembly system of claim 1 wherein the assembly device is a robot arm. 4. The automatic assembly device of claim 1 wherein the compliant mounting support is a compliant table. 5. The automatic assembly system of claim 4 wherein the rotational compliance of the compliant table is provided by a plurality of compliant mounts by which the surface of the table is supported. 6. The assembly system of claim 1 wherein the mounting support is for holding a second part which has a cylindrically shaped portion and the assembly device is for moving a first part which has a hole to receive the cylindrically shaped portion of the second part as the first part is moved relative to the second part by the assembly device. 7. An automatic assembly system comprising: a rotationally compliant assembly device for moving a first part relative to a second part along an assembly axis, resulting in the assembly of the first part and the second part, the assembly device having a known compliance characteristic; and a passive rotationally compliant mounting support holding the second part, the mounting support having a rotational compliance characteristic which matches the rotational compliance characteristic of the assembly device such that the first part and the second part rotate the same amount about any axis in a plane perpendicular to the assembly axis as a result of an assembly force generated at a point of contact between the first part and the second part. 8. The assembly system of Claim 7 wherein said assembly device is for moving a first part which is a male part and the mounting support holds a second part which is a female part. 9. The automatic assembly system of Claim 7 wherein the mounting support comprises a compliant table the surface of which is supported by a plurality of compliant supports. 10. The automatic assembly system of Claim 7 wherein the assembly device is a robot arm. 11. A compliant system comprising: an assembly device having a known rotational compliance characteristic; and a passive, rotationally compliant mounting support for holding a receiving part, the receiving part receiving an assembly part from the assembly device, a rotational compliance characteristic of the mounting support being related to the rotational compliance characteristic of the assembly device such that the receiving part and the assembly part rotated in a predetermined relative manner about any axis in a plane perpendicular to an assembly axis as a result of an assembly force generated at a single point of contact between the assembly part and the receiving part, said rotating facilitating the assembly of the assembly part and the receiving part. 