Technology is disclosed for communicating surgical information. The technology can receive a first data from a first sensor coupled to a first tool; receive a second data from a second sensor coupled to a second tool; generate a virtual model of a virtual real-time space, wherein the first tool is mapped in the virtual real-time space in relation to a first vital entity and a second vital entity via the first sensor and based on the first data; apply the virtual real-time space against at least a first probabilistic model and a second probabilistic model to obtain a third data about movement of the first tool in relation to the first vital entity and the second vital entity; and output the third data to an output device to convey information about the first tool.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for communicating surgical information, comprising: receiving a first data from a first sensor coupled to a first tool; receiving a second data from a second sensor coupled to a second tool; generating a virtual model of a four-dimensional virtual real-time space, wherein the first tool is mapped in the virtual real-time space in relation to a first vital entity and a second vital entity via the first sensor and based on the first data; applying a first probabilistic model and a second probabilistic model within the four-dimensional virtual real-time space to obtain a third data comprising a prediction of movement of the first tool in each of the four dimensions in relation to the first vital entity and the second vital entity and a prediction score, wherein the prediction score indicates either a severity of a warning or an estimated reliability of the prediction of movement; and outputting the third data to an output device to convey information about the first tool. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the applying includes accessing historical information from a data store to predict movement of the first tool. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the third data further comprises a hazard warning signal. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the hazard warning signal comprises at least one of a temperature signal, a vibration frequency, or a sound pitch. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first sensor is configured to measure auditory information, ultrasound, or visual information. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the four-dimensional virtual model includes a length dimension, a width dimension, a height dimension, and a time dimension. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the second tool is mapped in the four-dimensional virtual real-time space in relation to the first vital entity and the second vital entity via the second sensor and based on the second data. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: applying at least the first probabilistic model and the second probabilistic model within the four-dimensional virtual real-time space to obtain a fourth data about movement of the second tool in relation to the first vital entity and the second vital entity; and outputting the fourth data to the output device to convey haptic information about the second tool. 9. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer-readable instructions that, when executed, perform a method comprising: receiving a first data from a first sensor coupled to a first tool; receiving a second data from a second sensor coupled to a second tool; generating a four-dimensional virtual model of a virtual real-time space, wherein the first tool is mapped in the four-dimensional virtual real-time space in relation to a first vital entity and a second vital entity via the first sensor and based on the first data; applying at least a first probabilistic model and a second probabilistic model within the four-dimensional virtual real-time space to obtain a third data comprising a prediction of movement of the first tool in each of the four dimensions in relation to the first vital entity and the second vital entity; and outputting the third data to an output device to convey information about the first tool. 10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the applying includes accessing historical information from a data store to predict movement of the first tool. 11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the third data further comprises a hazard warning signal. 12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the hazard warning signal comprises at least one of a temperature signal, a vibration frequency, or a sound pitch. 13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the first sensor is configured to measure auditory information, ultrasound, or visual information. 14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the four-dimensional virtual real-time space includes a length dimension, a width dimension, a height dimension, and a time dimension. 15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the second tool is mapped in the four dimensional virtual real-time space in relation to the first vital entity and the second vital entity via the second sensor and based on the second data. 16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, further comprising: applying at least the first probabilistic model and the second probabilistic model within the four dimensional virtual real-time space to obtain a fourth data about movement of the second tool in relation to the first vital entity and the second vital entity; and outputting the fourth data to the output device to convey haptic information about the second tool. 17. A system for communicating surgical information, comprising: a component configured to receive a first data from a first sensor coupled to a first tool; a component configured to receive a second data from a second sensor coupled to a second tool; a component configured to generate a virtual model of a four-dimensional virtual real-time space, wherein the first tool is mapped in the four-dimensional virtual real-time space in relation to a first vital entity and a second vital entity via the first sensor and based on the first data; a component configured to apply at least a first probabilistic model and a second probabilistic model within the four-dimensional virtual real-time space to obtain a third data comprising a prediction of movement of the first tool in each of the four dimensions in relation to the first vital entity and the second vital entity; and a component configured to output the third data to an output device to convey information about the first tool. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein a historical information from a data store is accessed to predict movement of the first tool. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the third data further comprises a hazard warning signal. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the hazard warning signal comprises at least one of a temperature signal, a vibration frequency, or a sound pitch. 21. The system of claim 17, wherein the third data further comprises a prediction score, the prediction score indicating either a severity of a warning or an estimated reliability of the prediction of movement. 22. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the third data further comprises a prediction score, the prediction score indicating either a severity of a warning or an estimated reliability of the prediction of movement. 