The invention provides a method for providing human input to a computer which allows a user to interact with a display connected to the computer. The method includes the steps of placing a first target on a first portion of the user's body, using an electro-optical sensing means, sensing data related to the location of the first target and data related to the location of a second portion of the user's body, the first and second portions of the user's body being movable relative to each other, providing an output of the electro-optical sensing means to the input of the computer, determining the location of the first target and the location of the second portion of the user's body, and varying the output of the computer to the display based upon the determined locations for contemporaneous viewing by the user.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A touch interface comprising: a touch surface defining a touch input plane, the touch surface being adapted to detect a touch input and adapted to determine a characteristic of the touch input; and a transducer adapted to vibrate the touch surface in a direction generally perpendicular to the touch input plane in response to the touch input, wherein the transducer is operable to vibrate the touch surface with a tactile force feedback signal having a frequency selected as a function of the characteristic of the touch input. 2. A touch interface comprising: a touch surface defining a touch input plane, the touch surface being adapted to detect a touch input and adapted to determine a characteristic of the touch input; and a transducer adapted to vibrate the touch surface in a direction generally perpendicular to the touch input plane in response to the touch input, wherein the transducer is operable to vibrate the touch surface with a tactile force feedback signal having an intensity selected as a function of the characteristic of the touch input. 3. A touch interface comprising: a touch surface defining a touch input plane, the touch surface being adapted to detect a touch input and adapted to determine a characteristic of the touch input; and a transducer adapted to vibrate the touch surface in a direction generally perpendicular to the touch input plane in response to the touch input, wherein the transducer is operable to vibrate the touch surface with a tactile force feedback signal having a pulse sequence selected as a function of the characteristic of the touch input. 4. A computer implemented method for providing tactile feedback in response to input received from a user, the method comprising: providing a touch surface defining a touch input plane; detecting a first touch input on the touch surface; determining a characteristic of the first touch input; and vibrating the touch surface in a directional generally perpendicular to the touch input plane in response to the first touch input with a tactile force feedback signal having a frequency selected as a function of the characteristic of the touch input. 5. A computer implemented method for providing tactile feedback in response to input received from a user, the method comprising: providing a touch surface defining a touch input plane; detecting a first touch input on the touch surface; determining a characteristic of the first touch input; and vibrating the touch surface in a directional generally perpendicular to the touch input plane in response to the first touch input with a tactile force feedback signal having an intensity selected as a function of the characteristic of the touch input. 6. A computer implemented method for providing tactile feedback in response to input received from a user, the method comprising: providing a touch surface defining a touch input plane; detecting a first touch input on the touch surface; determining a characteristic of the first touch input; and vibrating the touch surface in a directional generally perpendicular to the touch input plane in response to the first touch input with a tactile force feedback signal having a pulse sequence selected as a function of the characteristic of the touch input. 7. A touch interface comprising: a display screen including a touch surface defining a first plane to receive a touch input; a touch sensor operable to detect a touch input on the touch surface and operable to determine a characteristic of the touch input; and an actuator operable to vibrate the touch surface in a direction perpendicular to the first plane in response to the touch input, wherein the actuator is operable to vibrate the touch surface with a tactile force feedback signal having at least one of a frequency, an intensity, and a pulse sequence based, at least in part, on the characteristic of the touch input. 8. The touch interface of claim 7 wherein the characteristic includes the location of the touch input. 9. The touch interface of claim 7 wherein the force feedback signal is defined by a pulse imparted to the display screen. 10. The touch interface of claim 9 wherein the pulse is directed to a portion of the display screen underlying the touch input. 11. The touch interface of claim 7 wherein the touch input includes one of a finger and a thumb in contact with the touch surface. 12. The touch interface of claim 7 wherein the actuator includes a piezoelectric crystal. 13. The touch interface of claim 7 wherein the display screen is located in an automobile passenger compartment. 14. The control interface of claim 7 wherein the display screen is located on an automobile dashboard. 15. The control interface of claim 7 wherein the touch surface is operable to receive vehicle input commands. 16. A computer implemented method for providing force feedback in response to input received from a user, the method comprising: providing a display screen including a touch surface to receive a touch input; detecting a first touch input on the touch surface; determining the location of the first touch input on the touch surface; and vibrating the touch surface in a direction generally perpendicular to the touch surface in response to the determining step to provide a tactile first force feedback signal to a user. 17. The method according to claim 16 wherein the display screen is operable to display visually observable data. 18. The method according to claim 16 wherein the first force feedback signal includes at least one of a frequency, an intensity, and a pulse sequence selected as a function of the location of the first touch input. 19. The method according to claim 16 including providing an actuator. 20. The method according to claim 19 wherein the actuator includes a piezoelectric crystal. 21. The method according to claim 16 wherein the first force feedback signal indicates a function selected by the user. 22. The method according to claim 21 wherein the function selected by the user is a vehicle control function. 23. The method according to claim 16 wherein the first touch input includes one of a finger and a thumb in contact with the touch screen front surface. 24. The method according to claim 16 wherein the display screen is located in an automobile passenger compartment. 25. The control interface of claim 16 wherein the display screen is located on an automobile dashboard. 26. A computer implemented method for providing force feedback in response to input received from a user, the method comprising: providing a display screen including a touch surface; detecting a first touch input on the touch surface; determining the location of the first touch input on the touch surface; vibrating the touch surface in a direction generally perpendicular to the touch surface in response to the determining step to provide a first force feedback signal to a user; detecting a second touch input on the touch surface; determining the location of the second touch input different from the location of the first touch input; and vibrating the display screen in a direction perpendicular to the touch surface to provide a second force feedback signal different from the first force feedback signal. 27. The method according to claim 26 wherein the second touch input includes one of a finger and a thumb in contact with the display screen. 28. The method according to claim 26 wherein the second force feedback signal is directed to a portion of the display screen underlying the second touch input. 29. The method according to claim 26 wherein the second force feedback signal includes at least one of a frequency, intensity, and pulse sequence selected as a function of the location of the second touch input. 30. The method according to claim 26 wherein: the first force feedback signal includes a first frequency; and the second force feedback signal includes a second frequency different from the first frequency. 31. The method according to claim 26 wherein: the first force feedback signal includes a first intensity; and the second force feedback signal includes a second intensity different from the first intensity. 32. The method according to claim 26 wherein: the first force feedback signal includes a first pulse sequence; and the second force feedback signal includes a second pulse sequence different from the first pulse sequence. 33. The method according to claim 26 wherein: the first force feedback signal indicates a first function selected by the user; and the second force feedback signal indicates a second function selected by the user different from the first function selected by the user. 