A motorized rotary joint for robots integrates a joint bearing with a power transmission, such as a planetary type speed reducer, and provides a large central hole for passing electric and service lines therethrough. The rotary joint includes a built-in rotor and stator arrangement within the same joint housing structure, thus allowing the electric motor to share the same bearings and housing structure with the speed reducer. Preferably, the rotor also carries planets of the reducer and the stator is either integral or coupled to a housing of the reducer. The rotary joint also accommodates an encoder, a circuit board having electronic components thereon and a built-in brake to provide a totally integrated, intelligent rotary joint. A method for constructing a modular robot using the rotary joint is also provided, wherein several such rotary joints are coupled to simple structural elements by means of bolted interfaces to construct a multi-joint robot of an articulated structure. Such a modular robot has low cost, is easy to maintain and service, and can be readily and speedily constructed and reconfigured from integrated modular components.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A motorized rotary joint for driving a load coupled thereto, the joint comprising: a cylindrical power transmission having a central hole; an electric motor in driving engagement with the power transmission for driving the power transmission; a hollow housing having an outside dimension and an inside dimension, the housing including first and second housing parts for housing the power transmission and the motor wherein one of the first and second housing parts is adapted to be coupled to the load; first bearing means disposed between the first and second housing parts for allowing relative rotary movement between the first and second housing parts to drive the load; and second bearing means disposed within the housing for rotatably supporting the power transmission and the motor wherein the rotary joint provides a central hollow core for passing service lines therethrough and wherein the inside dimension is relatively large in relation to the outside diameter and wherein the electric motor includes a stator supported on one of the housing parts within the housing and a rotor wherein the second bearing means rotatably supports the rotor and wherein the rotor is supported on the power transmission within the housing and wherein the power transmission is a planetary type speed reducer including a carrier and wherein the carrier also supports the rotor. 2. The joint as claimed in claim 1 further comprising means mounted within the housing and electrically coupled to the rotor for supplying electrical energy to the rotor. 3. The joint as claimed in claim 1 or claim 4 further comprising an encoder mounted in the housing for providing a feedback signal representative of the angular displacement between the first and second housing parts. 4. The joint as claimed in claim 3 further comprising a brake mounted in the housing for braking the relative rotation between the first and second housing parts in response to a braking control signal. 5. An intelligent, motorized rotary joint for driving a load coupled thereto, the joint comprising: a cylindrical power transmission; a motor in driving engagement with the power transmission for driving the power transmission; a circuit board having electronic components thereon for receiving electrical power and control signals and driving the motor in response to the control signals; a housing including first and second housing parts for housing the power transmission, the motor, and the circuit board wherein one of the first and second housing parts is adapted to be coupled to the load; first bearing means disposed between the first and second housing part for allowing relative rotational movement between the first and second housing parts to drive the load; and second bearing means disposed within the housing for rotatably supporting the power transmission and the motor. 6. The joint of claim 5 further comprising an encoder mounted in the housing for providing a feedback signal representative of the angular displacement between the first and second housing parts wherein the electrical components include means for receiving the feedback signal so that the electrical components provide closed loop control of the motor. 7. The joint of claim 5 or claim 6 wherein the electrical components include a communication circuit adapted to receive the electrical control signals from an external programmed controller and provide corresponding command signals in response thereto. 8. The joint of claim 7 wherein the electrical components include a programmed microcomputer and a motor drive circuit for controllably driving the motor, the programmed microcomputer processing the command signals to provide circuit control signals to the motor control circuit, the motor drive circuit driving the motor in response to the circuit control signals. 9. The joint of claim 8 further comprising a brake mounted in the housing for braking the relative rotation between the first and second housing parts in response to a braking control signal generated by the electronic components. 10. The joint of claim 5 wherein the transmission has a central hole extending completely therethrough and the housing is hollow, the hollow housing having an outside dimension and an inside dimension and wherein the rotary joint provides a central hollow core for passing service lines therethrough, and wherein the inside dimension is relatively large in relation to the outside dimension. 11. A method for constructing a modular robot having at least one axis of rotation, the method comprising the steps of: providing a rotary joint of claim 1 or claim 5 for each axis of rotation; providing a hollow structural module including a wall with a hole extending therethrough for each rotary joint; aligning the hole of each structural module with the central hollow core of its corresponding joint; securing each structural module to its corresponding rotary joint; and routing at least one electrical cable through the hole of each structural module and each corresponding aligned central hollow core to energize and communicate electrically with each rotary joint such that the robot can be powered and controlled. 12. The method as claimed in claim 11 wherein the step of aligning includes the step of disposing the rotary joint within its corresponding structural module. 