A reusable carrier for releasably retaining modular telephone jacks or other small molded articles is stamped and formed from a strip of metal and has a plurality of depending U-shaped clips extending from an elongated carrier strip. The carrier strip is generally flat with a series of pilot holes and struck out, downwardly bent locating projections positioned in between adjacent pilot holes. One of the U-shaped clips extends transversely from the carrier strip adjacent each of the pilot holes and is adapted to be releasably received within a plug receiving cavity of the jack. Each of the U-shaped clips includes a bight portion and opposed legs extending from the bight portion. Each of these legs has a pair of oppositely curved friction springs projecting outwardly from the leg so as to frictionally engage interior side walls of the plug receiving cavity when the jack is placed on the clip. A cantilevered spring latch is formed from the bight portion and includes a cam surface at its free end for releasably engaging a latch of the jack. The friction springs and the spring latch retain the jack on the clip and permit the removal of the jack from the clip upon the application of a withdrawal force on the jack. The carrier may be used in manufacturing, handling and/or installing jacks and other small articles and may be reused a number of times.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A carrier for releasably retaining a plurality of electrical connectors, each electrical connector including a housing having an interior cavity with interior walls, said carrier comprising: an elongated carrier strip, a plurality of clips extending from said carrier strip, each of said clips including a plurality of walls, and engaging means extending from said walls of said clip to releasably engage said interior walls when one of said electrical connectors is placed on one of said clips. 2. The carrier as set forth in claim 1 wherein said engaging means includes frictional spring means on at least one of said walls of said clip to bear against at least one of said interior walls of said interior cavity. 3. The carrier as set forth in claim 2 wherein said spring means includes oppositely extending curved spring projections extending outwardly from at least one of said walls of said clip. 4. The carrier as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said electrical connectors includes a latch and wherein said engaging means includes a latch means formed from one of said walls of said clip, said latch means adapted to releasably engage said latch. 5. The carrier as set forth in claim 4 wherein said walls of said clip include a base portion and a pair of walls extending from said base portion and wherein said latch means includes a cantilevered arm formed from said base portion with a cam surface formed on the free end of said cantilevered arm adapted to engage said latch, said free end of said cantilevered arm being wider than the remaining portion of said cantilevered arm. 6. The carrier as set forth in claim 5 wherein said free end of said cantilevered arm engages said base portion as said cantilevered arm is flexed toward said base portion. 7. The carrier as set forth in claim 1 wherein said carrier strip includes a pilot hole located adjacent each of said clips and includes a locating projection extending from said carrier strip midway between each of said pilot holes. 8. The carrier as set forth in claim 1 wherein said carrier strip is a stamped and formed generally flat metal strip capable of being wound into a reel. 9. The carrier as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said clips is connected to said carrier strip by a neckdown connecting portion. 10. The carrier as set forth in claim 1 wherein said walls of said clip include a base portion and a pair of walls extending transversely from said base portion to form opposed upstanding walls, wherein the interior walls of said electrical connector include at least a pair of opposed side walls and wherein the distance between said opposed side walls is slightly greater than the distance between said opposed upstanding walls of said clip. 11. The carrier as set forth in claim 10 wherein said base portion and said pair of walls of said clip form a generally U-shaped clip. 12. A carrier for carrying a plurality of electrical connectors having an interior cavity with a pair of opposed side walls and a latch associated with another wall of said cavity, said carrier comprising: an elongated carrier strip, at least one U-shaped clip extending transversely from said carrier strip, said clip having a bight portion in the plane of said carrier strip and a pair of legs extending from said bight portion, friction springs projecting from each of said legs, said friction springs bearing against said opposed side walls when said clip is positioned in said cavity, and a cantilevered latch arm extending outwardly from said bight portion, said latch arm having a cam surface near its free end to releasably engage said latch of said electrical connector when said clip is positioned in said cavity. 13. The carrier as set forth in claim 12 wherein said latch of said electrical connector includes a latch projection and wherein said cam surface of said latch arm engages said latch projection to maintain said clip in said cavity of said electrical connector. 14. The carrier as set forth in claim 12 wherein said latch of said electrical connector has an inclined surface upon which said cam surface of said latch arm slides as said clip is being positioned in said cavity. 15. The carrier as set forth in claim 12 wherein said free end of said latch arm flexes toward said bight portion upon a withdrawal force being applied to said electrical connector away from said carrier strip. 16. A metallic carrier for carrying a plurality of modular connectors, each of said connectors having a receiving cavity formed of at least opposed inside side walls and having a connector latch, said carrier comprising: a generally flat elongated carrier strip, said carrier strip having indexing and locating means, at least one U-shaped clip extending transversely from said carrier strip from an edge thereof, said clip having a bight portion and a pair of legs extending from said bight portion, a pair of oppositely extending friction springs projecting from each of said legs, said friction springs bearing against said inside side walls when said clip is positioned in said receiving cavity, and a cantilevered clip latch formed from and extending outwardly from said bight portion, said clip latch having a free end adapted to releasably engage said connector latch. 17. The carrier as set forth in claim 16 wherein said connector latch includes a latch projection having an inclined surface, wherein said connector has a connecting wall interconnecting said opposed side walls, said connecting wall having a slot into which said latch projection extends and wherein said free end of said clip latch has a cam surface which slides on said inclined surface of said latch projection as said clip is positioned in said receiving cavity. 18. A method of using a carrier with a plurality of electrical connectors, each of said electrical connectors having an interior cavity, said method comprising the steps of: placing an electrical connector on at least some of a plurality of clips extending from a carrier strip portion of said carrier and retaining said electrical connector on said clip by means of engaging means extending from said clip and releasably engaging interior walls of said interior cavity of said electrical connector, moving said carrier strip portion relative to a work station so as to position said electrical connector at said work station for assembling components into said electrical connector, positioning said carrier relative to a device for installing said electrical connector, and removing said electrical connector from said clip so as to install said electrical connector by applying a withdrawal force to said electrical connector. 19. The method as set forth in claim 18 wherein said electrical connector is retained on said clip by spring means extending from said clip frictionally engaging the interior walls of said electrical connector. 20. The method as set forth in claim 18 wherein said electrical connector is retained on said clip by a latch arm extending from said clip releasably engaging a latch on said electrical connector. 21. The method as set forth in claim 18 including the step of winding the carrier strip portion into a reel prior to positioning said carrier relative to said device for installing said electrical connector. 22. The method as set forth in claim 18 wherein said carrier strip portion is moved relative to said work station by means of indexing holes located on said carrier strip portion adjacent to each of said clips. 23. The method as set forth in claim 18 wherein said carrier is positioned relative to said device for installing said electrical connector by positioning means extending from said carrier strip portion. 