This invention relates to the electro-optically based sensor units of use in measuring the "fit up" of panels as on car bodies, aircraft, etc. The disclosed invention is capable of measuring both the gap between the adjacent panels and their relative positions to obtain the width of the gap, the location of the edges of the panels can be estimated by fitting curves to the measured data, or "flushness", in the direction out of plane. Embodiments include a hand-held portable unit capable of being used on finished assemblies such as car bodies, and aircraft sections, as well as on "ring" gages in which a single test panel is checked relative to a reference frame or "ring".
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the mechanical edge falloff of a contoured panel edge surface comprising the steps of: forming a light section detected image of a portion of said panel edge surface adjacent said edge falloff; determining the contour of said detected image; predicting, from the determined contour of the detected image, the remaining contour of said panel edge surface to the mechanical edge falloff and hence the location of the mechanical edge falloff relative to that portion of said panel edge surface imaged. 2. A method for determining edge falloff as claimed in claim 1 wherein the contour of the panel edge surface is predetermined; and further including the steps of determining, from the predetermined contour of the panel edge surface, the location in the predetermined contour of that portion of said panel edge which has been imaged. 3. A method for determining edge falloff as claimed in claim 1 wherein a set of observable points is produced by said formed light section; and wherein the determining step includes a curve fit to the observed points and a best fit curve projected to the edge falloff. 4. An apparatus for determining mechanical edge falloff of a contoured panel edge surface comprising: a forming means for forming a light section detected image of a portion of said panel edge surface adjacent said edge falloff; a determining means for determining the contour of said detected image; and a predicting means for predicting, from the determined contour of the detected image, the remaining contour of said panel edge surface to the mechanical edge falloff, and hence the location of the mechanical edge falloff relative to that portion of said panel edge surface imaged. 