A test system is described for testing a media drive, such as a tape drive. The test system includes a host emulator, a storage library emulator, and a control system. The host emulator communicates with a first interface of the media drive and mimics a host system to the media drive. The storage library emulator communicates with a second interface of the media drive and mimics a storage library system to the media drive. When in operation, one of the host emulator and the storage library emulator transmits a test message to the media drive responsive to an instruction from the control system. Responsive to the test message, one of the emulators receives a test response from the media drive and transmits the test response to the control system. The control system processes the test message and the test response to evaluate the performance of the media drive.
Claims We claim: 1. A test system for testing a media drive for a data storage system, the test system comprising: a control system adapted to generate an instruction; a host emulator adapted to transmit a test message to a first interface of the media drive responsive to receiving the instruction from the control system, to receive a test response from the first interface of the media drive, and to transmit the test response to the control system; and a storage library emulator adapted to transmit a test message to a second interface of the media drive responsive to receiving the instruction from the control system, to receive a test response from the second interface of the media drive, and to transmit the test response to the control system; the control system further adapted to process the test message and the test response to evaluate the performance of the media drive. 2. The test system of claim 1 wherein: the host emulator is adapted to transmit the test message to the first interface in a first protocol; and the storage library emulator is adapted to transmit the test message to the second interface in a second protocol. 3. The test system of claim 2 wherein the first protocol comprises FCP-SCSI protocol. 4. The test system of claim 3 wherein the second protocol comprises ADC protocol. 5. The test system of claim 1 wherein the media drive comprises a tape drive for a tape storage system. 6. The test system of claim 5 wherein: the first interface comprises a host/drive interface for the tape drive; and the second interface comprises an automation/drive interface for the tape drive. 7. The test system of claim 1 wherein: the control system is adapted to generate the instruction based on a previous test response. 8. The test system of claim 1 wherein: the control system is adapted to generate the instruction based on a test file being executed by the control system. 9. A method of operating a test system for testing a media drive for a data storage system, the media drive comprises a first interface and a second interface, the method comprising: generating an instruction in a control system; transmitting a test message from one of a host emulator to the first interface of the media drive or a storage library emulator to the second interface of the media drive, responsive to receiving the instruction from the control system; receiving a test response from the second interface of the media drive in the storage library emulator; transmitting the test response from the storage library emulator to the control system; and processing the test message and the test response in the control system to evaluate the performance of the media drive. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein: transmitting the test message from the host emulator to the first interface comprises transmitting the test message to the first interface in a first protocol; and transmitting the test message from the storage library emulator to the second interface comprises transmitting the test message to the second interface in a second protocol. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the first protocol comprises FCP-SCSI protocol. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the second protocol comprises ADC protocol. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein the media drive comprises a tape drive for a tape storage system. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein: the first interface comprises a host/drive interface for the tape drive; and the second interface comprises an automation/drive interface for the tape drive. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein: generating the instruction in the control system comprises generating the instruction in the control system based on a previous test response. 16. The method of claim 9 wherein: generating the instruction in the control system comprises generating the instruction in the control system based on a test file executed by the control system. 17. A test system for testing a tape drive, the test system comprising: a control system adapted to generate a first instruction; a host emulator adapted to transmit a first test message in a first protocol to a host/drive interface (HDI) of the tape drive responsive to receiving the first instruction from the control system; and a tape library emulator adapted to receive a first test response in a second protocol from an automation/drive interface (ADI) of the tape drive, and to transmit the first test response to the control system; the control system further adapted to process the first test message and the first test response to evaluate the performance of the tape drive. 18. The test system of claim 17 wherein: the control system is adapted to generate a second instruction; the tape library emulator is adapted to transmit a second test message in the second protocol to the ADI of the tape drive responsive to receiving the second instruction from the control system; the host emulator is adapted to receive a second test response in the first protocol from the HDI of the tape drive responsive to the second test message, and to transmit the second test response to the control system; and the control system is adapted to process the second test message and the second test response to evaluate the performance of the tape drive. 19. The test system of claim 18 wherein: the control system is adapted to generate a third instruction; the tape library emulator is adapted to transmit a third test message in the second protocol to the ADI of the tape drive responsive to receiving the third instruction from the control system, to receive a third test response in the second protocol from the ADI of the tape drive responsive to the third test message, and to transmit the third test response to the control system; and the control system is adapted to process the third test message and the third test response to evaluate the performance of the tape drive. 20. The test system of claim 19 wherein the control system automatically generates the first, second, and third instructions according to a test file. 21. The test system of claim 17 wherein the first protocol comprise FCP-SCSI protocol. 22. The test system of claim 17 wherein the second protocol comprises ADC protocol. 23. The test system of claim 17 wherein: the host emulator comprises a host server; the tape library emulator comprises a tape library server; and the host server and the tape library server connect to the control system via a network. 24. The test system of claim 17 wherein: the host emulator comprises a host process executed by a processing system; the tape library emulator comprises a tape library process executed by the processing system; and the control system comprises a control process executed by the processing system. 