An apparatus and method for inspecting a plurality of containers are provided. Each container has an outer surface for housing at least one material therein. The techniques provided involve at least one inspection vehicle and at least one detector. Each inspection vehicle has a plurality of wheels for movably positioning about the plurality of containers. The wheels may have at least one magnet for selectively adhering to the outer surface of at least one of the containers whereby the inspection vehicle traverses the container(s). The detector is positionable proximate at least one of the containers. The detector may be deployable from the inspection vehicle to a position adjacent the container(s). The detector has at least one sensor for measuring at least one characteristic of the plurality of containers. At least one base station may be provided for communicating with the inspection vehicle(s) and/or detector(s).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for inspecting a plurality of containers, each container having an outer surface for housing at least one material therein, comprising: at least one inspection vehicle having a plurality of wheels for movably positioning about the plurality of containers whereby the at least one inspection vehicle traverses at least one of the plurality of containers; and at least one deployable detector extendable from the at least one inspection vehicle, the at least one deployable detector positionable proximate at least one of the plurality of containers, the at least one deployable detector having at least one sensor for measuring at least one characteristic of the plurality of containers, wherein the apparatus is operatively linked to at least one other similarly configured apparatus to cooperatively inspect the plurality of containers. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of wheels have at least one magnet for selectively adhering to the outer surface of at least one of the plurality of containers. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one base station operatively linked to one of the at least one inspection vehicle, the at least one detector and combinations thereof for communication therewith. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a communicator for passing signals between at least two of at least one inspection vehicle, at least one deployable detector, at least one base station and combinations thereof. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the communicator passes one of command signals, power signals, communication signals, data and combinations thereof. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one inspection vehicle has electronic means for cooperative operation with another at least one inspection vehicle. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one inspection vehicle is configured to maneuver the at least one inspection vehicle to a predetermined location. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one deployable detector is operatively connected to the at least one inspection vehicle via a cable. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the at least one inspection vehicle has a pulley for extending and retracting the cable. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the cable is wired for the passage of signals between the at least one deployable detector and the at least one inspection vehicle. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one deployable detector has at least one tread movable about the at least one deployable detector for slidable engagement with the outer surface of the plurality of containers. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one deployable detector has a housing with a plurality of rollers therein, the at least one tread movably positioned about the rollers. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one characteristics measured by the at least one sensor are at least one of radiation, material parameters, environmental conditions, and combinations thereof. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a processor for analyzing data received from the at least one sensor. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processor is positioned in one of the at least one deployable detector, the at least one inspection vehicle, at least one base station, an external source and combinations thereof. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, further comprising an alarm for providing an alert when the analyzed data meets predetermined criteria. 17. A method of inspecting a plurality of containers, each container having an outer surface for housing at least one material therein, comprising: movably positioning at least one inspection vehicle having a plurality of wheels about the plurality of containers, wherein at least one inspection vehicle comprises a plurality of inspection vehicles and wherein the steps of the method are cooperatively performed by a plurality of inspection vehicles according to a predetermined routine; extending at least one deployable detector from the at least one inspection vehicle to a position proximate at least one of the plurality of containers, the at least one deployable detector having at least one sensor; and measuring at least one characteristic of the plurality of containers via the at least one sensor. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising traversing at least one of the plurality of containers by selectively adhering the plurality of wheels via at least one magnet to the outer surface of at least one of the plurality of containers. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising operatively linking a base station with one of at least one inspection vehicle, at least one deployable detector and combinations thereof for communication therebetween. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the routine is revised based on one of the at least one characteristic, environmental conditions, operational inputs, and combinations thereof. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of extending the at least one deployable detector comprises selectively extending the at least one deployable detector from the at least one inspection vehicle via a cable to a position proximate at least one of the plurality of containers, the at least one deployable detector having at least one sensor therein. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising selectively retracting the at least one deployable detector. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein the at least one deployable detector is slidably positionable along the outer surface of at least one of the plurality of containers. 24. The method of claim 17, further comprising passing signals between at least two of at least one inspection vehicle, at least one deployable detector, at least one base station and combinations thereof. 25. The method of claim 17, further comprising analyzing data collected by the at least one sensor. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising providing an alarm when the analyzed data meets predetermined criteria. 27. The method of claim 25, further comprising processing the data collected by the at least one sensor. 28. A method of inspecting a plurality of containers, each container having an outer surface for housing at least one material therein, comprising: movably positioning at least one inspection vehicle having a plurality of wheels about the plurality of containers; extending at least one deployable detector from the at least one inspection vehicle to a position proximate at least one of the plurality of containers, the at least one deployable detector having at least one sensor, wherein the step of extending the at least one deployable detector comprises selectively extending the at least one deployable detector from the at least one inspection vehicle via a cable to a position proximate at least one of the plurality of containers, the at least one deployable detector having at least one sensor therein; and measuring at least one characteristic of the plurality of containers via the at least one sensor. 29. The method of claim 28, further comprising traversing at least one of the plurality of containers by selectively adhering the plurality of wheels via at least one magnet to the outer surface of at least one of the plurality of containers. 30. The method of claim 28, further comprising operatively linking a base station with one of at least one inspection vehicle, at least one deployable detector and combinations thereof for communication therebetween. 31. The method of claim 28, further comprising selectively retracting the at least one deployable detector. 32. The method of claim 28, wherein the at least one deployable detector is slidably positionable along the outer surface of at least one of the plurality of containers. 33. The method of claim 28, further comprising passing signals between at least two of at least one inspection vehicle, at least one deployable detector, at least one base station and combinations thereof. 34. The method of claim 28, further comprising analyzing data collected by the at least one sensor. 35. The method of claim 34, further comprising providing an alarm when the analyzed data meets predetermined criteria. 36. The method of claim 34, further comprising processing the data collected by the at least one sensor. 37. An apparatus for inspecting a plurality of containers, each container having an outer surface for housing at least one material therein, comprising: at least one inspection vehicle having a plurality of wheels for movably positioning about the plurality of containers whereby the at least one inspection vehicle traverses at least one of the plurality of containers, wherein the at least one inspection vehicle has electronic means for cooperative operation with another at least one inspection vehicle; and at least one deployable detector extendable from the at least one inspection vehicle, the at least one deployable detector positionable proximate at least one of the plurality of containers, the at least one deployable detector having at least one sensor for measuring at least one characteristic of the plurality of containers. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the plurality of wheels have at least one magnet for selectively adhering to the outer surface of at least one of the plurality of containers. 39. The apparatus of claim 37, further comprising at least one base station operatively linked to one of the at least one inspection vehicle, the at least one detector and combinations thereof for communication therewith. 40. The apparatus of claim 37, further comprising a communicator for passing signals between at least two of at least one inspection vehicle, at least one deployable detector, at least one base station and combinations thereof. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the communicator passes one of command signals, power signals, communication signals, data and combinations thereof. 42. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one inspection vehicle is configured to maneuver the at least one inspection vehicle to a predetermined location. 43. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one deployable detector is operatively connected to the at least one inspection vehicle via a cable. 44. The apparatus of claim 43, wherein the at least one inspection vehicle has a pulley for extending and retracting the cable. 45. The apparatus of claim 43, wherein the cable is wired for the passage of signals between the at least one deployable detector and the at least one inspection vehicle. 46. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one deployable detector has at least one tread movable about the at least one deployable detector for slidable engagement with the outer surface of the plurality of containers. 47. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein the at least one deployable detector has a housing with a plurality of rollers therein, the at least one tread movably positioned about the rollers. 48. The apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one characteristics measured by the at least one sensor are at least one of radiation, material parameters, environmental conditions, and combinations thereof. 49. The apparatus of claim 37, further comprising a processor for analyzing data received from the at least one sensor. 50. The apparatus of claim 49, wherein the processor is positioned in one of the at least one deployable detector, the at least one inspection vehicle, at least one base station, an external source and combinations thereof. 51. The apparatus of claim 49, further comprising an alarm for providing an alert when the analyzed data meets predetermined criteria. 