The invention is a capacitively coupled probe which can be used for non-contact acquisition of both analog and digital signals. The probe includes a shielded probe tip, a probe body which is mechanically coupled to the probe tip, and an amplifier circuit disposed within the probe body. The amplifier circuit receives a capacitively sensed signal from the probe tip and produces an amplified signal in response thereto. The amplifier has a large bandwidth to accommodate high-frequency digital signals. Further, the amplifier has a very low input capacitance and a high input resistance to reduce signal attenuation and loading of the circuit being probed. The amplifier circuit is disposed in the probe body closely adjacent to the probe tip in order to reduce stray and distributed capacitances. A reconstruction circuit reconstructs digital signals from the amplified capacitively sensed signal.
Claims We claim: 1. A capacitively coupled probe for acquiring a digital electrical signal from a source conductor, the probe comprising: a body portion; a probe tip coupled to said body portion, said probe tip being configured to capacitively sense the digital electrical signal from the source conductor to produce a sensed signal, said probe tip including an inner conductor and a shield conductor, said shield conductor substantially surrounding said inner conductor to define an active region of said sense means, wherein said inner conductor has a cross-sectional area at said active region of not greater than 315 square mils and said probe tip has a cross-sectional area at said active region not greater than 5675 square mils such that said probe tip is configured to acquire the digital electrical signal from a correspondingly dimensioned source conductor while substantially excluding unwanted signals from adjacent conductors; amplifier means, coupled to said probe tip, for receiving and amplifying said sensed signal to produce an amplified signal, said amplifier means being disposed in said body portion of the probe closely adjacent to said probe tip; and reconstruction means coupled to said amplifier means for receiving said amplified signal and for reproducing the digital electrical signal therefrom. 2. The capacity coupled probe of claim 1, wherein said probe tip exhibits a coupling capacitance of less than 100 fF when disposed closely adjacent to, but at least one mil from, the source conductor. 3. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 1, wherein said probe tip exhibits a coupling capacitance of not greater than 10 fF when placed closely adjacent to, but at least one mil from, the source conductor. 4. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 1, wherein said inner conductor and said shield conductor of said probe tip are arranged in a substantially coaxial configuration and wherein said active region of said probe tip has a diameter not greater than twelve mils. 5. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 4, further comprising an end ring fixedly attached to said shield conductor to reduce the size of said active region of said probe tip. 6. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 5, wherein said probe tip exhibits a coupling capacitance not greater than 10 fF when placed closely adjacent to, but at least one mil from, the source conductor. 7. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 1, further comprising an end ring fixedly attached to said shield conductor to reduce the size of said active region of said probe tip. 8. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 1, wherein said inner conductor has a cross-sectional area at said active region of not greater than 13 square mils and said probe tip has a cross-sectional area at said active region not greater than 707 square mils such that said probe tip is configured to acquire the digital electrical signal from a correspondingly dimensioned source conductor while substantially excluding unwanted signals from adjacent conductors. 9. A capacitively coupled probe for acquiring an electrical signal from a source conductor, the probe comprising: a probe tip including an inner conductor and a conductive shield substantially surrounding said inner conductor, said probe tip having an active region which is adapted to capacitively sense the electrical signal from the source conductor to produce a sensed signal, wherein said inner conductor has a cross-sectional area at said active region of not greater than 315 square mils and said probe tip has a cross-sectional area at said active region not greater than 5675 square mils such that said probe tip is configured to acquire the electrical signal from a correspondingly dimensioned source conductor while substantially excluding unwanted signals from adjacent conductors; a probe body mechanically coupled to said probe tip; and an amplifier circuit disposed in said probe body proximate to said probe tip, said amplifier circuit being electrically connected to said probe tip and being adapted to receive and amplify said sensed signal to produce an amplified signal. 10. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 9, wherein said inner conductor and said conductive shield are arranged in a substantially coaxial configuration, and wherein said active region has a diameter not greater than twelve mils. 11. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 9, wherein said probe tip exhibits a coupling capacitance not greater than 100 fF when disposed closely adjacent to, but at least one mil from, the source conductor. 12. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 9, wherein said probe tip exhibits a coupling capacitance not greater than 10 fF when placed closely adjacent to, but at least one mil from, the source conductor. 13. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 9, wherein said inner conductor has a cross-sectional area at said active region of not greater than 13 square mils and said probe tip has a cross-sectional area at said active region not greater than 707 square mils such that said probe tip is configured to acquire the electrical signal from a correspondingly dimensioned source conductor while substantially excluding unwanted signals from adjacent conductors. 14. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 9, wherein said inner conductor and said conductive shield of said probe tip are arranged in a substantially coaxial configuration and wherein said active region of said probe tip has a diameter not greater than twelve mils. 15. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 14, further comprising an end ring fixedly attached to said conductive shield to reduce the size of said active region of said probe tip. 16. The capacitively coupled probe of claim 15, wherein said probe tip exhibits a coupling capacitance not greater than 10 fF when placed closely adjacent to, but at least one mil from, the source conductor. 