A gripping apparatus including a housing in which is slidably mounted a longitudinally movable operator body. A pair of gripper arms are slidably mounted on the operator body. Each gripper arm carries a gripper jaw engageable with a workpiece. The gripper jaws are moved along straight line travel paths into gripping engagement with a workpiece when the operator body is moved in one longitudinal direction, and they are correspondingly disengaged from the workpiece when the operator body is moved in the other longitudinal direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gripping apparatus, characterized in that it comprises: (a) a housing having a longitudinal and a transverse axis; (b) a gripper operator body, having a longitudinal and a transverse axis, and further having a front side surface and a rear side surface, slidably mounted in said housing for longitudinal movement therein; (c) a pair of gripper arms slidably mounted in a pair of angled gripper arm slots which are disposed in a criss-cross manner, and which are formed in said operator body with one gripper arm slot in one of said side surfaces of the operator body and the other gripper arm slot in the other of said side surfaces of the operator body; (d) said gripper arms each selectively carrying a gripper jaw for internal or external gripping engagement with a workpiece, and each of the gripper jaws being constructed and arranged to engage a workpiece along a plurality of gripping lines to permit gripping of a workpiece without slippage if the gripping apparatus is rotated to a position above the workpiece; (e) cam means for restraining each of said gripper arms against movement relative to the operator body, axially of the longitudinal axis of the operator body, but which permits crosswise movement of the gripper arms relative to the longitudinal axis of said operator body, and toward and away from a workpiece, to move the gripper jaws carried by the gripper arms in straight line travel paths; and, (f) said gripper operator body having an outer recess formed in the lower end thereof with a shaped inner recess communicating with said outer recess; and, (g) a power cylinder, mounted in said housing and nested in the outer recess in the operator body when the gripping apparatus is inoperative and having an operating rod with an end connectively engageable in the shaped inner recess, for moving said operator body longitudinally in said housing, whereby when said operator body is moved in one longitudinal direction, the gripper jaws on the gripper arms are moved along straight line travel paths into gripping engagement with a workpiece, and when the operator body is moved in the other longitudinal direction, the gripper jaws are retracted from the workpiece along the same straight line travel paths. 2. A gripping apparatus, as defined in claim 1, characterized in that said housing comprises: (a) a front cover plate and a rear cover plate; and, (b) a pair of side plates fixed to said cover plates. 3. A gripping apparatus, as defined in claim 2, characterized in that and comprising, gripper arm slots each disposed at an acute angle relative to the longitudinal axes of the housing and operator body, with each gripper arm slot being disposed with its upper end on one side of said longitudinal axes. 4. A gripping apparatus, as defined in claim 3, characterized in that said comprising, power means for moving said operator body. 5. A gripping apparatus, as defined in claim 4, characterized in that said cam means comprises: (a) a first crosswise cam slot formed in one cover plate, and a cam roller rollably mounted in said first crosswise cam slot and being attached to a first one of said gripper arms; and, (b) a second crosswise cam slot formed in the other cover plate, and a cam roller rollably mounted in said second crosswise cam slot and being attached to a second one of said gripper arms. 6. A gripping apparatus, as defined in claim 5, characterized in that and comprising, said gripper jaws on said gripper arms being detachably mounted on said gripper arms. 7. A gripping apparatus, as defined in claim 6, characterized in that and comprising, gripper jaw straight travel paths, each disposed at a right angle to the longitudinal axis of said housing. 