The present invention is a control system for a seven-degree-of-freedom robotic arm. The robotic arm (10) includes two links (12 and 14), each having two degrees of freedom, and a spherical wrist (26) having three degrees of freedom. The kinematics of the spherical wrist are decoupled from the kinematics of the arm. The four degrees of freedom of the arm create a redundancy which provides versatility in the positioning of the arm. Fixing the redundant arm parameter and locating the end point (24) of the end effectuator path away from areas of limited mobility results in a marked simplification of the algorithms which describe the equations of motion of the arm. Additionally, further computation reduction can be achieved by updating the control gains less frequently than every microprocessor cycle, such as updating once for every five degrees of pitch angle rotation of either joint.
Claims What I claim is: 1. An improved method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm from an initial position to a final position, comprising: constructing a robotic arm having a first link and a second link, each said link having a first end and a second end; said first link being joined to a fixed surface at said first end thereof by a shoulder joint having two rotational degrees of freedom, and said second link being joined at said first end thereof to said second end of said first link by an elbow joint having two rotational degrees of freedom; identifying three spatial displacement coordinates of said initial position of said second end of said second link; identifying three spatial coordinates of said final position for said second end of said second link; identifying initial values of said two rotational degrees of freedom of said shoulder joint; identifying initial values of said two rotational degrees of freedom of said elbow joint; identifying a redundant rotational degree of freedom in said arm; utilizing a constraint that said redundant degree of freedom is equal to a fixed value; determining final values of three remaining rotational degrees of freedom; utilizing an equation ##EQU6## wherein: .tau..sub.c =joint control torque K.sub.p =a diagonal matrix containing position gain information K.sub.r =a diagonal matrix containing rate gain information S=a coordinate transformation matrix S.sup.T =a transform of matrix S such that S.sup.T S=I .theta.=a vector of joint angles .theta.=rate of change of .theta. to determine the joint control torque of each rotational degree of freedom; and solving said equation to determine the joint control torque for each rotational degree of freedom, and providing signals to control said shoulder joint and said elbow joint such that said second end of said second link is directed from said initial position to said final position. 2. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 1 wherein said two rotational degrees of freedom of said shoulder joint are roll angle and pitch angle, and wherein said two rotational degrees of freedom of said elbow joint are roll angle and pitch angle. 3. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 2 wherein said redundant rotational degree of freedom is said roll angle of said elbow joint. 4. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 3 wherein the value of said roll angle of said elbow joint is constrained to equal zero degrees. 5. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 1, further including; utilizing a mathematical spline to provide path solutions to plan the path of said second end of said second link. 6. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 5 wherein said spline is represented by an equation: ##EQU7## wherein t is the actual time from the start of the maneuver, T is the total maneuver time, x.sub.i is a spatial coordinate of said initial position and x.sub.f is a spatial coordinate of said final position of said second end of said second link. 7. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 1 including updating said torque control values once for every five degrees of change of one of said shoulder joint pitch angle or elbow joint pitch angle parameters. 8. An improved method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm from an initial position to a final position, comprising: constructing a robotic arm having a first link and a second link, each said link having a first end and a second end; said first link being joined to a fixed surface at said first end thereof by a shoulder joint having two rotational degrees of freedom, and said second link being joined at said first end thereof to said second end of said first link by an elbow joint having two rotational degrees of freedom; identifying three spatial displacement coordinates of said initial position of said second end of said second link; identifying three spatial coordinates of said final position for said second end of said second link; identifying initial values of said two rotational degrees of freedom of said shoulder joint; identifying initial values of said two rotational degrees of freedom of said elbow joint; identifying a redundant rotational degree of freedom in said arm; utilizing a constraint that said redundant degree of freedom is equal to a fixed value; determining final values of the three remaining rotational degrees of freedom; utilizing an equation ##EQU8## wherein: .tau..sub.c =joint control torque M=mass matrix .omega.=closed loop frequency .zeta.=a damping constant .theta.=a vector of joint angles .theta.=the rate of change of .theta. to determine a control torque of each rotational degree of freedom; and solving said equation to determine the joint control torque for each rotational degree of freedom, and providing signals to control said shoulder joint and said elbow joint such that said second end of said second link is directed from said initial position to said final position. 9. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 8 wherein said two rotational degrees of freedom of said shoulder joint are roll angle and pitch angle, and wherein said two rotational degrees of freedom of said elbow joint are roll angle and pitch angle. 10. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 9 wherein said redundant rotational degree of freedom is said roll angle of said elbow joint. 11. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 10 wherein a value of said roll angle of said elbow joint is constrained to equal zero degrees. 12. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 8, further including; utilizing a mathematical spline to provide path solutions to plan the path of said second end of said second link. 13. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 12 wherein said spline is represented by an equation: ##EQU9## wherein t is an actual time from the start of the maneuver, T is a total maneuver time, x.sub.i is a spatial coordinate of said initial position and x.sub.f is a spatial coordinate of said final position of said second end of said second link. 14. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 8 including updating said torque control values once for every five degrees of change of one of said shoulder joint pitch angle or elbow joint pitch angle parameters. 15. An improved method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm from an initial position to a final position, comprising: constructing a robotic arm having a first link and a second link, each said link having a first end and a second end; said first link being joined to a fixed surface at said first end thereof by a shoulder joint having two rotational degrees of freedom, and said second link being joined at said first end thereof to said second end of said first link by an elbow joint having two rotational degrees of freedom; identifying three spatial displacement coordinates of said initial position of said second end of said second link; identifying three spatial coordinates of said final position for said second end of said second link; identifying initial values of said two rotational degrees of freedom of said shoulder joint; identifying initial values of said two rotational degrees of freedom of said elbow joint; utilizing a first equation ##EQU10## wherein: .tau..sub.c =joint control torque K.sub.p =a diagonal matrix containing position gain information K.sub.r =a diagonal matrix containing rate gain information S=a coordinate transformation matrix S.sup.T =a transform of matrix S such that S.sup.T S =I .theta.=a vector of joint angles .theta.=rate of change of .theta. to determine the joint control torque of each rotational degree of freedom; utilizing a constraint that the velocities of said elbow joint rotational degrees of freedom and said shoulder joint rotational degrees of freedom be minimized; and determining the joint control torque for each rotational degree of freedom, and providing signals to control said shoulder joint and said elbow joint such that said second end of said second link is directed from said initial position to said final position. 16. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 13, further including determining said velocities utilizing a second equation where X(t) is a vector of space tip coordinates and J.sup.t is a Jacobean pseudo inverse mathematical function. 17. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 16 wherein said two rotational degrees of freedom of said shoulder joint are roll angle and pitch angle, and wherein said two rotational degrees of freedom of said elbow joint are roll angle and pitch angle. 18. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 16, further including; utilizing a mathematical spline to provide path solutions to plan the path of said second end of said second link. 19. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 18 wherein said spline is represented by an equation: ##EQU11## wherein t is an actual time from the start of the maneuver, T is a total maneuver time, and x.sub.i is a spatial coordinate of said initial position and x.sub.f is a spatial coordinate of said final position of said second end of said second link. 20. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 16 including updating said torque control values once for every five degrees of change of one of said shoulder joint pitch angle or said elbow joint pitch angle parameters. 21. An improved method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm from an initial position to a final position, comprising: constructing a robotic arm having a first link and a second link, each said link having a first end and a second end; said first link being joined to a fixed surface at said first end thereof by a shoulder joint having two rotational degrees of freedom, and said second link being joined at said first end thereof to said second end of said first link by an elbow joint having two rotational degrees of freedom; identifying the three spatial displacement coordinates of said initial position of said second end of said second link; identifying three spatial coordinates of said final position for said second end of said second link; identifying initial values of said two rotational degrees of freedom of said shoulder joint; identifying initial values of said two rotational degrees of freedom of said elbow joint; utilizing a first equation ##EQU12## wherein: .tau..sub.c =joint control torque M=mass matrix .omega.=closed loop frequency .zeta.=a damping constant .theta.=a vector of joint angles .theta.=rate of change of .theta. to determine the joint control torque of each rotational degree of freedom; utilizing a constraint that the velocities of said elbow joint rotational degrees of freedom and said shoulder joint rotational degrees of freedom be minimized; and determining the joint control torque for each rotational degree of freedom, and providing signals to control said shoulder joint and said elbow joint such that said second end of said second link is directed from said initial position to said final position. 22. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 21, further including determining said velocities utilizing a second equation where X(t) is a vector of space tip coordinates and J.sup.t is a Jacobean pseudo inverse mathematical function. 23. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 22 wherein said two rotational degrees of freedom of said shoulder joint are roll angle and pitch angle, and wherein said two rotational degrees of freedom of said elbow joint are roll angle and pitch angle. 24. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 23, further including; utilizing a mathematical spline to provide path solutions to plan the path of said second end of said second link. 25. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 24 wherein said spline is represented by an equation: ##EQU13## wherein t is an actual time from the start of the maneuver, T is total maneuver time, x.sub.i is a spatial coordinate of said initial position and x.sub.f is a spatial coordinate of said final position of said second end of said second link. 26. A method for controlling the movement of a robotic arm as described in claim 22 including updating said joint torque control values once for every five degrees of change of one of said shoulder joint pitch angle or said elbow joint pitch angle parameters. 