The invention relates to a medical device, a medical work station, and a method for registering an object (P). The medical device comprises a navigation system (17, 18) and a robot (R) having several axes of rotation (1-6). The navigation system (17, 18) comprises a detection device (18) for detecting prominent points on an object (P) or markers (M) placed on the object (P) as well as a processing device (17) for determining the position of the object (P) on the basis of the prominent points or markers (M) detected by means of the detection device (18). The detection device (18) of the navigation system is mounted on the robot (R).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic apparatus for treating an object, comprising: a navigation system including a detection device configured to detect a plurality of distinctive sites of an object or a plurality of markers associated with the object, and a processing device communicating with the detection device and configured to determine a position and an orientation of the object based on the plurality of distinctive sites or the plurality of markers detected by the detection device; and a robot having at least one arm and a plurality of axes of rotation for the arm, the detection device being coupled to the robot; wherein the robot is configured to automatically register the plurality of markers or the plurality of distinctive sites associated with the object; and wherein the robot is configured to automatically re-register, at predetermined time intervals, the plurality of markers or a position and orientation of the plurality of distinctive sites associated with the object. 2. A robotic apparatus for treating an object, comprising: a navigation system including a detection device configured to detect a plurality of distinctive sites of an object or a plurality of markers associated with the object, and a processing device communicating with the detection device and configured to determine a position and an orientation of the object based on the plurality of distinctive sites or the plurality of markers detected by the detection device; and a robot having at least one arm and a plurality of axes of rotation for the arm, the detection device being coupled to the robot; wherein the robot is configured to automatically register the plurality of markers or the plurality of distinctive sites associated with the object by moving toward the markers or toward the distinctive sites, respectively, or by recording the position and orientation of the plurality of markers or the plurality of distinctive sites. 3. The robotic apparatus of claim 2, wherein the detection device is an optical device selected from the group consisting of a camera, a laser tracking system, a plurality of projectors for structured light, and a plurality of linear projectors. 4. The robotic apparatus of claim 2, wherein the detection device is integral with the robot arm. 5. The robotic apparatus of claim 2, wherein the detection device is removably coupled to the robot arm. 6. The robotic apparatus of claim 2, wherein the robot includes a lighting system. 7. The robotic apparatus of claim 2, wherein the robot is configured to detect a movement of the object and, in response to the detection, update the respective positions and orientations of the plurality of markers or the respective positions of the plurality of distinctive sites. 8. The robotic apparatus of claim 2, further comprising: a surgical instrument coupled to the robot. 9. The robotic apparatus of claim 2, further comprising: a patient transport trolley accessible by the robot and configured to permit a living being to lie thereon. 10. A method for registering a position and orientation of an object with a robot having a detection device, the method comprising: using the robot to automatically detect a plurality of distinctive sites or a plurality of markers associated with the object; using a processing device to determine a position and orientation of the object based on the detection of the plurality of distinctive sites or the plurality of markers; automatically registering the plurality of distinctive sites or the plurality of markers; and automatically seeking the plurality of distinctive sites or the plurality of markers prior to registration thereof. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein registering the position and orientation of the object includes registering respective positions and orientations of the detected plurality of distinctive sites or the detected plurality of markers, the method further comprising: automatically detecting movement of the object; and automatically updating, based on the detected movement of the object, the registered respective positions and orientations of the plurality of distinctive sites or the detected plurality of markers. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: automatically re-registering the respective positions and orientations of the plurality of distinctive sites or the respective plurality of markers at predetermined time intervals. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein registering the position and orientation of the object includes automatically recording the plurality of distinctive sites or the plurality of markers. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein detecting the plurality of distinctive sites or the plurality of markers comprises using one of a camera, a laser tracking system, a plurality of projectors for structured light, or a plurality of linear projectors. 