An electromechanical apparatus includes an electronic processor responsive to a context signal and operable in alternative processing contexts identified by the context signal. First and second registers are connected to the electronic processor to participate in one processing context while retaining information from another processing context until a return thereto. A context switching circuit is connected to the first and second registers and operates to selectively control input and output operations of the registers to and from the electronic processor depending on the processing context. Other devices, systems and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A motor apparatus comprising: an electric motor; and a digital controller having circuitry for producing a digital signal to be processed; an electronic processor for executing digital signal processing operations on said digital signal in alternative processing contexts identified by a state of a context signal; and an output peripheral circuit for communicating a control signal to said electric motor based on said digital signal processing operations; said electronic processor including: a plurality of register sets, each of said register sets having a first and second register, said first and second registers connected to concurrently store identical information during one of the processing contexts, said first register connected to individually participate and be continuously available in a next of the processing contexts when said first register is selected thereby enabling the second register to retain said information from said one processing context; and a switching circuit responsive to the state of said context signal and connected to said first and second registers to alternatively control input and output operations of said register set to and from said electronic processor depending on the processing context. 2. The motor apparatus of claim 1, said electric motor comprising a spindle motor for a disk drive. 3. The motor apparatus of claim 1, said motor apparatus comprising an actuator assembly for a disk drive electrically connected to said output peripheral circuit. 4. The motor apparatus of claim 1, said motor apparatus comprising relays electrically connected to said output peripheral circuit. 5. An electromechanical apparatus comprising: a mechanical apparatus for doing work responsive to an electrical signal; and a digital controller having circuitry for producing a digital signal to be processed; an electronic processor for executing digital signal processing operations on said digital signal in alternative processing contexts identified by a state of an interrupt signal; and an output peripheral circuit for communicating a control signal to said mechanical apparatus based on said digital signal processing operations; said electronic processor including: a plurality of register sets, each of said register sets having a first and second register, said first and second registers connected to concurrently store identical information during one of the processing contexts, said first register connected to individually participate and be continuously available in a next of the processing contexts when said first register is selected thereby enabling the second register to retain said information from said one processing context; and a switching circuit responsive to the state of said interrupt signal and connected to said first and second registers to alternatively control input and output operations of said register set to and from said electronic processor depending on the processing context. 6. The apparatus as in claim 5, said apparatus including: a sensor for sensing a physical variable and sending a sensor signal corresponding to said physical variable to said digital controller. 7. The apparatus as in claim 6, said mechanical apparatus including multiple separable mechanical devices; said digital controller simultaneously controlling each of said multiple mechanical devices. 8. The apparatus as in the prior claim 7, said multiple mechanical devices comprising a motor, relays, and a solenoid valve. 9. The apparatus as in claim 7, said multiple mechanical devices including brakes, engine, and suspension. 10. The apparatus as in claim 6, said mechanical apparatus including: multiple dependent mechanical portions; said apparatus including: drivers for operating said mechanical portions; said digital controller delivering a control signal to said drivers for operating said mechanical portions, responsive to said sensor signal. 11. The apparatus as in claim 10, said digital controller including an A/D - D/A converter for receiving analog signals from said sensor and for converting digital signals to analog signals for delivery to said drivers; and a memory accessible to said first and second registers; said apparatus including: a safety controller for delivery of safety input signals to said digital controller. 12. The apparatus as in claim 11, said multiple mechanical portions having multiple orientations; said digital controller processing means receiving signals corresponding to said multiple orientations and simultaneously delivering multiple independent instruction signals for correcting or adjusting said multiple orientations of said mechanical portions. 13. The apparatus as in claim 5, said digital controller comprising a state controller. 14. The apparatus as in claim 5, said mechanical apparatus comprising a motor. 15. The apparatus as in claim 5, said information corresponding to torque, current, speed, or position. 16. The apparatus as in claim 5, said apparatus including: a D/A and A/D converter; and a motor; said D/A converter receiving a digital signal from said digital controller and delivering an analog signal to said mechanical apparatus; said A/D converter receiving an output analog signal from said motor and inputting an input digital signal to said digital controller; said A/D converter sending both said interrupt signal and said information. 17. The apparatus as in claim 16, said digital controller including a state controller and estimator; said estimator receiving said information and outputting corresponding signals to said state controller. 18. The apparatus as in claim 5, the apparatus including: a D/A and A/D converter; and a sensor; said D/A converter converting digital signals from said digital controller and delivering analog signals to said mechanical apparatus; said sensor receiving signals from said mechanical means and delivering signals to said A/D converter; said A/D converter converting analog signals from said sensor and delivering digital signals to said digital controller processing means; said digital signals including an interrupt signal. 19. The apparatus as in claim 18, said apparatus including: an adder; said adder summing a reference input signal and signals received from said A/D converter and delivering said sum to said digital controller processing means; said sum corresponding to said interrupt signal. 20. The apparatus as in claim 5, said mechanical means comprising a DC servo motor and disk drive; said motor driving said disk drive according to instructions received from said digital controller processing means. 