In one embodiment of the invention, a tool tracking system is disclosed including a computer usable medium having computer readable program code to receive images of video frames from at least one camera and to perform image matching of a robotic instrument to determine video pose information of the robotic instrument within the images. The tool tracking system further includes computer readable program code to provide a state-space model of a sequence of states of corrected kinematics information for accurate pose information of the robotic instrument. The state-space model receives raw kinematics information of mechanical pose information and adaptively fuses the mechanical pose information and the video pose information together to generate the sequence of states of the corrected kinematics information for the robotic instrument. Additionally disclosed are methods for image guided surgery.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A non-transitory computer usable medium for use with a tool tracking system comprising: (a) non-transitory computer readable code programmed to receive images of video frames from at least one camera; (b) non-transitory computer readable code programmed to receive kinematics information related to robotic movement of a robotic instrument, determine mechanical pose information from the kinematics information, and synthesize model pose information of a computer aided design model of the robotic instrument using the mechanical pose information; (c) non-transitory computer readable code programmed to determine video pose information of the robotic instrument using the synthesized model pose information as a pattern for pattern searching within the images; and (d) non-transitory computer readable code programmed to provide a state-space model of a sequence of states of corrected kinematics information for accurate pose information of the robotic instrument, the state-space model to receive raw kinematics information of mechanical pose information and to adaptively fuse the mechanical pose information and the video pose information together to generate the sequence of states of the corrected kinematics information for the robotic instrument. 2. The computer usable medium of claim 1, wherein the synthesized model pose information of the model of the robotic instrument generated by the non-transitory computer readable code includes one or more markers of the robotic instrument forming a pattern. 3. The computer usable medium of claim 2, wherein the one or more markers include artificial markers consisting of a pattern of dots. 4. The computer usable medium of claim 2, wherein the one or more markers include natural markers represented by consisting of geometry information of the computer aided design model. 5. A non-transitory computer usable medium for use with a tool tracking system comprising: (a) non-transitory computer readable code programmed to receive images of video frames from at least one camera, determine video pose information of a robotic instrument within the images, and estimate uncertainty in the determined video pose information in light of video information in response to view geometry statistics; and (b) non-transitory computer readable code programmed to receive kinematics information related to robotic movement of the robotic instrument, determine mechanical pose information from the kinematics information, and fuse the mechanical pose information and the video pose information in a state-space model using a covariance matrix configured to compensate for the estimated uncertainty in the video pose information to generate estimated pose information for the robotic instrument. 6. The computer usable medium of claim 5, wherein the state-space model includes a dynamic model and an observation model respectively including dynamic noise and observation noise that respectively have dynamic and observation Gaussian distributions respectively characterized by dynamic and observation covariance matrices, wherein the observation covariance matrix includes a sub-matrix for vision; and the non-transitory computer readable code is programmed to configure the sub-matrix for vision to compensate for the estimated uncertainty of video information by modifying elements of the sub-matrix so as to adjust a standard deviation for the estimated pose information for the robotic instrument accordingly. 7. The computer usable medium of claim 5, wherein assuming an independent Gaussian noise model, the view geometry statistics are computed for one or more of digitization error/image resolution, feature/algorithm related image matching error, distance from object to camera, angle between object surface normal and line of sight, illumination, and specularity. 