A pretensioned cable transmits power along a first support member (link) from a rotary actuator to a rotating output joint, typically an output pulley fixed to a second link arm but rotatable in a coupling between the first and second links. A reducer, typically two sets of coupled idler pulleys of different diameter, is mounted at a point removed from the actuator, and preferably as close as possible to the output joint. An axially split spool mounted on the actuator output wraps the outgoing and returning cable sections on different halves of the spool in opposite directions to provide pretensioning of the cable in the entire cable circuit at one point. The links and pulleys of the transmission are long and narrow. This high aspect ratio provides a compact configuration that is conductive to whole arm manipulations where any exterior surface of the links can engage an object. A low inertia, low friction brushless D.C. motor operating under the control of a pulse width modulated controller responsive to the current drawn by the motor, in combination with the cable transmission of this invention, provide excellent force control.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Means for transmitting mechanical power from an actuator having a rotary output, comprising, at least first and second elongated links said first link extending from said rotary output over a distance L to said second link, means for coupling said first and second link to pivot about at least one axis, cable means formed from at least two lengths of cable, an output pulley operatively connected to said second link, a reducer including at least two pulleys of different diameters, the larger diameter being operatively connected by said cable means to said rotary output and said smaller diameter pulley being operatively connected by said cable means to said output pulley, means for pretensioning the cable means, said reducer being positioned distal from said rotary output so that cable means has a long high speed, low tension section extending between said rotary output and said reducer and a short, low speed, high tension section extending between said reducer and said output pulley. 2. The power transmission means of claim 1 where said reducer is formed in two parallel independently rotatable halves, and where said transmission means includes first and second opposed circuits halves, said first half circuit including a portion of said cable means including at least one of said lengths of cable extending from said rotary output, through a first half of said reducer, and to said output pulley, said second half circuit including a portion of said cable means including at least one other of said lengths of cable extending from said output pulley, through a second half of said reducer, and back to said rotary output, the torque transmitted by said one of said half circuits from said rotary output to said output pulley being opposed by another of said half circuits. 3. The power transmission means of claim 2 wherein said pretensioning means is located at a single point where said first and second circuit halves meet, whereby the entire circuit can be pretensioned at this single point. 4. The power transmission means of claim 3 wherein said pretensioning means comprises (i) a spool of said rotary output where said spool is axially split into two portions that rotate independently of one another, a portion of said cable means associated with said first circuit half being wound in one sense on one half of said spool and a second portion of said cable means associated with said second circuit half being wound in the opposite sense on the other half of said spool, and (ii) means for securing said sleeve portions in a given angular relationship that establishes a desired level of pretension in said cable means. 5. The power transmission means of claim 1 wherein said cable means has a diameter that varies so that the stress per unit area throughout the cable means is generally constant. 6. The power transmission means of claim 5 wherein said cable means in said high speed, low tension section has a smaller diameter than said cable means in said low speed, high tension section. 7. The power transmission means of claim 6 wherein the ratio of the areas of high cross-sectional areas of the high speed cable means to the low speed cable is generally equal to the reduction provided by said reducer. 8. The power transmission means of claim 6 wherein said cable means in said low speed, high tension section is formed by multiple strands of a smaller diameter cable than the cable means in said high speed section, and further comprising means for supporting and guiding said multiple strands of cable through a turn-around which allows a self-adjusting slippage of said lengths of said double strand during pretensioning to equalize the tension in the double strand. 9. The power transmission means of claim 8 wherein said supporting and guiding means comprises a generally U-shaped path mounted on said out-put pulley. 10. The power transmission means of claim 1 wherein said reducer comprises two pairs of coupled idler pullers where the coupled pulleys have different diameters. 11. The power transmission means of claim 1 wherein said pulleys have a diameter with respect to the length of said links whereby the transmission means has a high aspect ratio. 12. The power transmission means of claim 11 wherein said pretensioning is to a maximum of half the yield strength of said cable means to provide a high degree of stiffness and an absence of backlash and wherein said actuator is an electric motor characterized by low friction, low inertia, and high efficiency, and further comprising controller means responsive to the current drawn by the motor to produce its output torque to provide power transmission to said second link that has low torque ripples and provides good force control. 13. The power transmission means of claims 1, 11 or 12 wherein said links have an outer covering of a high friction material to facilitate gripping, contacting, and moving objects with said arms along their length. 