A tube holder includes a clamp formed by a clamp base and a wrap-around strap. The strap is fixed at one end to the base and, after wrapping around the tube, is locked to the clamp base at a point along its length in a double locking system.
Claims I claim: 1. In a locking structure for a clamp: bolt means for locking cooperation with a surface conformation on a keeper; a keeper formed by two members spaced to provide an opening between them; a latch carried by the keeper and resiliently mounted on one of said members for movement in said opening; said latch being biased to a position in said opening such that entry of the bolt means into the space between said members requires mating of said conformation and said latch or retraction of the latch; said members being capable of being spread apart and in which a projection extends into said space from one of said members sufficiently to require spreading of said members to permit entry of the bolt means into said space by arranging said conformation and latch in mating position. 2. The invention defined in claim 1 in which said projection is formed with a sloping surface which is sloped to greater extension into said space in the direction in which the bolt means is moved to entry into said keeper when conformation and latch are aligned. 3. The invention defined in claim 2 in which said two members are joined at a point along their length such that said space between said members consitutes a slot, said latch being mounted at a point in said slot closer than said projection to the juncture between said members. 4. A locking structure comprising: a bolt having an end and a side; a keeper shaped to define a repository for the bolt having a first normally blocked entryway to receive the bolt endwise, and a second normally blocked entryway to receive the bolt sidewise; a lock extending into one of said first and second entryways and a latch extending into the other entryway; and camming means carried by one of said keeper or said bolt for camming open one of said entryways sufficiently to permit entry of the bolt, and camming means carried by one of said keeper and said bolt for camming open the other of said entryways sufficiently to permit entry of the bolt. 5. The invention defined in claim 4 in which said keeper is formed of a resilient material which yields in response to cam action. 6. A locking structure comprising: a keeper which defines a repository for a bolt and a first entryway for endwise insertion of the bolt and a second entryway for sidewise insertion of the bolt; a locking member and a latch associated with respective ones of said first and said second entryways and means for withdrawing at least one of said locking member and said latch to permit removal of a bolt from said repository; said keeper being U-shaped, the repository for a bolt being defined by the space between the arms of the U-shape; said locking member and said latch being formed on one arm of the U-shape; and a second locking member and a second latch, the second locking member and the second latch being formed on the other arm of the U-shape. 7. The invention defined in claim 6 which further comprises a strap, the strap being formed with a plurality of latch engaging conformations on each of its two sides. 