Medical and/or robotic devices, systems and methods can provide an indicator associated with each manipulator assembly of a multi-arm telerobotic or telesurgical system. The exemplary indicator comprises a multi-color light emitting diode (LED) mounted to a manipulator moving an associated surgical instrument, allowing the indicator to display any of a wide variety of signals. The invention may provide an additional user interface to facilitate communications between the telesurgical system and/or members of a telesurgical team.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic method comprising: moving a first end effector of a first manipulator assembly in response to a first robotic command, the first manipulator assembly having a first indicator; moving a second end effector of a second manipulator assembly in response to a second robotic command, the second manipulator assembly having a second indicator; transmitting a command from a processor to, selectably, the first indicator or the second indicator; and outputting a first identifiable signal from the selected indicator to a person near the first and second manipulator assemblies; wherein each manipulator assembly comprises: a manipulator movably supporting a tool holder; and a tool releasably mountable to the tool holder and having the end effector; and wherein the first identifiable signal indicates: a state of the tool of the selected manipulator assembly, a state of the manipulator assemblies, a state of a robotic system, the robotic system including the manipulator assemblies, an input device, and the processor, or an identity of at least one component of the selected manipulator assembly. 2. The robotic method of claim 1, wherein the first and second end effectors comprise surgical end effectors, and wherein the person is within an operating room with a patient and the first and second manipulator assemblies. 3. The robotic method of claim 2, wherein the processor comprises a master/slave telesurgical controller. 4. The robotic method of claim 2, wherein the movement command is input by a system operator, further comprising selecting, per the system operator, the selected indicator from at least among the first indicator and the second indicator so that the first signal communicates the system operator's selection to the person. 5. The robotic method of claim 4, wherein the system operator is viewing the movements of the end effectors in a display while inputting the command movements, and wherein the first identifiable signal allows the system operator to identify a manipulator assembly without looking away from the display. 6. The robotic method of claim 2, wherein the movement command is input by a system operator, and wherein the processor selects the selected indicator independent of the input from the system operator. 7. The robotic method of claim 1, wherein the indicator comprises a visual indicator, and wherein the first identifiable signal comprises at least one of a visual pattern or a color. 8. The robotic method of claim 7, wherein the first and second visual indicators each comprise a plurality of light emitting diodes (LED), and wherein the first identifiable signal comprises a blinking pattern and the color. 9. The robotic method of claim 7, further comprising displaying a plurality of separately identifiable signals, each identifiable signal being transmitted from an associated indicator and providing communication to the person regarding an associated manipulator assembly. 10. The robotic method of claim 1, wherein the first identifiable signal communicates to the person the state of the tool of the selected manipulator assembly. 11. The robotic method of claim 1, wherein the tool of the selected manipulator assembly comprises an electrosurgical instrument, and wherein the state of the tool of the selected manipulator assembly communicated by the first identifiable signal to the person comprises an electrosurgically energized state. 12. The robotic method of claim 1, wherein the first identifiable signal communicates to the person the state of the robotic system. 13. The robotic method of claim 12, wherein the state of the robotic system communicated by the first identifiable signal to the person comprises a low battery state or a loss of imaging state. 14. The robotic method of claim 1, further comprising manually reconfiguring, by the person and in response to the first identifiable signal, the manipulator assembly of the selected indicator. 15. The robotic method of claim 14, wherein the manual reconfiguration comprises replacement of the tool of the selected manipulator assembly with another tool having a third end effector. 16. The robotic method of claim 1, wherein the first identifiable signal comprises a yellow color and communicates a warning to the person regarding an associated manipulator assembly of the selected indicator while the associated manipulator assembly remains capable of end effector movement. 17. The robotic method of claim 1, wherein the first identifiable signal comprises a red color and communicates to the person a robotic system fault regarding the manipulator assembly of the selected indicator, such that the associated manipulator assembly will not provide robotic end effector movement. 18. The robotic method of claim 1, wherein the first identifiable signal communicates to the person that the person is to take action regarding the manipulator assembly of the selected indicator so as to enable robotic end effector movement. 19. The robotic method of claim 1, wherein the system includes a plurality of input devices for manipulation by a plurality of system operators, and wherein the first identifiable signal communicates to the person that a first input device associated with a first system operator is operatively associated with the manipulator assembly of the selected indicator so as to effect master/slave following. 20. The robotic method of claim 1, further comprising displaying, to a system operator inputting end effector movement commands to an input device and viewing the end effector movements in a display, graphical indicia corresponding to the first identifiable signal in the display. 21. The robotic method of claim 1, further comprising selectively energizing an indicator associated with another end effector, wherein the person replaces the end effector of the manipulator assembly outputting the first signal with the other end effector. 22. The robotic method of claim 21, wherein the indicator associated with the other end effector is included in a tool rack, the tool rack comprising a plurality of differing tool rack end effectors and a plurality of tool rack indicators, each tool rack end effector associated with a tool rack indicator, wherein the other end effector is selected from among the plurality of tool rack end effectors in response to a signal from the processor to the tool rack. 