Disclosed is a console panel for a robot, which is provided with a dead-man switch always firmly actuated and easy to hold by the hand and does not cause substantial fatigue of the hand. In this console panel, a pressing plate 9 of a dead-man switch having an elliptical recess 91 on the back surface of the console panel at a position where the tips of the respective fingers simultaneously touch when the console panel is held from the side portion thereof, and this console panel is used for various electrically operated industrial robots.
Claims We claim: 1. A teaching console panel for a robot having front back and side portions comprising: a switch disposed within said console panel; a pressing plate operably coupled to said switch having an elliptical recess disposed within a surface of said console panel back portion, wherein said elliptical recess simultaneously accommodates fingers of a panel user for touching said pressing plate when said console panel is gripped by said user; and an inclined face portion for accommodating thereon the palm of said user, wherein said inclined face portion is disposed on a longitudinally straight edge portion of said console panel back portion. 2. The teaching console panel as in claim 1, wherein said pressing plate having said elliptical recess is substantially disposed at a center portion of said console panel back portion for simultaneously accommodating said panel user's fingers to thereby permit said switch to be actuated by said pressing plate regardless of where on said pressing plate is pressed by the user's fingers. 3. The teaching console panel as in claim 1, further comprising: a switch substrate having an attachment plate and a plurality of springs dispersedly coupled to said attachment plate, said attachment plate having an aperture passing through the center thereof, each one of said plurality of springs has a portion for touching said pressing plate, and wherein said pressing plate has on its inner face a projecting member for inserting into said attachment plate aperture, and a stopper ring for impinging against said attachment plate. 4. The teaching console panel as in claim 3, wherein said stopper ring of said pressing plate has a size larger than the size of said aperture passing through said attachment plate. 5. The teaching console panel as in claim 3, wherein said stopper ring impinges against said attachment plate to thereby preclude excessive pressing force from being exerted on said switch by said user. 