An apparatus and method for installing and removing a tool on a chuck connected to a robot arm. The chuck has a mandrel with two parallel flat sides and two protruding flanges. The tool has a tool coupling member which is supported and held against rotation by a support plate. The tool coupling member is cylindrical and has two lugs spaced apart to allow the flat sides of the mandrel to pass, but to lock over the flanges of the mandrel when the mandrel is rotated relative to the tool coupling member. A cam follower on the chuck follows a guide slot in the support plate to cause the mandrel to rotate relative to the tool coupling member. The cam follower also causes a key on the chuck to mate or disengage a key slot on the tool coupling member.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for installing and removing a tool on a chuck connected to a robot arm, comprising: a tool coupling member on the tool; a chuck coupling member on the chuck, adapted to mate with the other tool coupling member; locking means for securing the coupling members together when the coupling members are aligned in a locked position, and for releasing the coupling members when the coupling members are rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to one another; support means for receiving and preventing rotation of the tool coupling member; and guide means on one of said support means and said chuck and coacting means on one of said support means and said chuck for causing the chuck coupling member to rotate relative to the tool coupling member when the chuck places the tool coupling member in the support means and moves relative to the support means. 2. The apparatus recited in claim 1, wherein the tool coupling member is cylindrical, and the chuck coupling member is a mandrel extending from the chuck into the tool coupling member, so that the coupling members mate telescopically. 3. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the locking means comprises: a lug on one of the coupling members; and a flange on the other coupling member, to lock under the lug when the coupling members are aligned in a locked position, and to release the lug when the coupling members are rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to one another. 4. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein the guide means is a cam follower extending from the chuck into a curved guide slot in the support means. 5. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a key on a selected one of the chuck or the tool coupling member; the other of the chuck or the tool coupling member having a key slot adapted to mate with the key; and wherein the guide means causes the key and the key slot to be mated when the coupling members are aligned in a locked position, and disengaged when the coupling members are rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to one another. 6. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein the locking means comprises: a lug on one of the coupling members; and a flange on the other coupling member, to lock under the lug when the coupling members are aligned in a locked position, and to release the lug when the coupling members are rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to one another. 7. The apparatus as recited in claim 6, further comprising: a key on a selected one of the chuck or the tool coupling member; the other of the chuck or the tool coupling member having a key slot adapted to mate with the key; and wherein the guide means causes the key and the key slot to be mated when the coupling members are aligned in a locked position, and disengaged when the coupling members are rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to one another. 8. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein the guide means is a cam follower extending from the chuck into a curved guide slot in the support means. 9. The apparatus as recited in claim 8, further comprising: a key on a selected one of the chuck or the tool coupling member; the other of the chuck or the tool coupling member having a key slot adapted to mate with the key; and wherein the guide means causes the key and the key slot to be mated when the coupling members are aligned in a locked position, and disengaged when the coupling members are rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to one another. 10. The apparatus as recited in claim 2, further comprising: a key on a selected one of the chuck or the tool coupling member; the other of the chuck or the tool coupling member having a key slot adapted to mate with the key; and wherein the guide means causes the key and the key slot to be mated when the coupling members are aligned in a locked position, and disengaged when the coupling members are rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to one another. 11. The apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein the guide means is a cam follower extending from the chuck into a curved guide slot in the support means. 12. The apparatus as recited in claim 11, further comprising: a key on a selected one of the chuck or the tool coupling member; the other of the chuck or the tool coupling member having a key slot adapted to mate with the key; and wherein the guide means causes the key and the key slot to be mated when the coupling members are aligned in a locked position, and disengaged when the coupling members are rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to one another. 13. The apparatus as recited in claim 3, further comprising: a kay on a selected one of the chuck or the tool coupling member; the other of the chuck or the tool coupling member having a key slot adapted to mate with the key; and wherein the guide means causes the key and the key slot to be mated when the coupling members are aligned in a locked position, and disengaged when the coupling members are rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to one another. 14. The apparatus as recited in claim 4, further comprising: a key on a selected one of the chuck or the tool coupling member; the other of the chuck or the tool coupling member having a key slot adapted to mate with the key; and wherein the guide means causes the key and the key slot to be mated when the coupling members are aligned in a locked position, and disengaged when the coupling members are rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to one another. 15. An apparatus for installing and removing a tool on a chuck connected to a robot arm, comprising: a cylindrical tool coupling member on the tool, having a lug; a mandrel extending from the chuck and adapted to be received into the tool coupling member, the mandrel having a protruding flange means to lock under the lug when the mandrel and the tool coupling member are aligned in a locked position, and to release the lug when the mandrel is rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to the tool coupling member; and support means for holding the tool against rotation, the support means having a curved guide slot; a cam follower, extending from the chuck into the guide slot, to rotate the mandrel relative to the tool coupling member as the chuck moves relative to the support means. 16. The apparatus as recited in claim 15, further comprising: a key on a selected one of the chuck or the tool coupling member; the other of the chuck or the tool coupling member having a key slot adapted to mate with the key; and wherein the guide means causes the key and the key slot to be mated when the coupling members are aligned in a locked position, and disengaged when the coupling members are rotated a selected distance of less than 360.degree. relative to one another. 17. A method of installing a tool on a chuck connected to a robot arm, comprising the steps of: providing a support plate to hold the tool against rotation, said support plate having a curved guide slot; orienting the chuck so that a chuck coupling member on the chuck is aligned with a tool coupling member on the tool; moving the chuck toward the tool until the coupling members mate and a cam follower on the chuck enters the guide slot; and moving the chuck in a plane transverse to the axis of the coupling members, so that the cam follower follows the guide slot and rotates the chuck coupling member relative to the tool coupling member, to lock the coupling members together. 