A robotic medical system comprises a catheter having an elongated shaft with a plurality of flexible segments spaced apart along the catheter, and a drive unit coupled to the catheter. The catheter may have a plurality of cables respectively terminating at the flexible segments, in which case, the drive unit will be coupled to the plurality of cables. The robotic medical system further comprises a user interface remote from the drive unit and configured for generating at least one command, and an electric controller configured, in response to the command(s), for directing the drive unit to independently bend the flexible segments (e.g., three flexible segments).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic medical system, comprising: a catheter having an elongated shaft with a plurality of bendable segments spaced apart along the catheter; a drive unit coupled to the catheter; a user interface remote from the drive unit and configured for generating at least one command; and an electric controller configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to independently bend the bendable segments. 2. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the electric controller is configured for directing the drive unit to independently bend the flexible segments corresponding to movements at the user interface. 3. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the electrical controller is coupled to the drive unit via external cabling. 4. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 5. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the catheter has a plurality of cables respectively terminating at the flexible segments, and the drive unit is coupled to the plurality of cables. 6. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the catheter has an end effector carried by the elongated shaft, and the electric controller is configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to actuate the end effector. 7. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the electric controller is configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to independently bend at least two of the flexible segments in different directions. 8. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the different directions are opposite directions. 9. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the flexible segments are contiguous. 10. The robotic medical system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of flexible segments comprises three flexible segments. 11. A robotic medical system, comprising: a catheter having an elongated shaft with a plurality of bendable segments spaced apart along the catheter; a plurality of actuators configured for independently bending the bendable segments; and a controller configured for remotely controlling the actuators. 12. The robotic medical system of claim 11, wherein the controller has a user interface configured for receiving movements corresponding to the bending of the flexible segments. 13. The robotic medical system of claim 11, wherein the controller is coupled to the actuators via external cabling. 14. The robotic medical system of claim 11, wherein the catheter has a plurality of cables respectively terminating at the flexible segments, and the actuators are respectively coupled to the cables. 15. The robotic medical system of claim 11, wherein the catheter has an end effector carried by the elongated shaft, the robotic medical system further comprising another actuator configured for actuating the end effector, and the controller is configured for remotely controlling the other actuator. 16. The robotic medical system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of actuators is configured for independently bending at least two of the flexible segments in different directions. 17. The robotic medical system of claim 16, wherein the different directions are opposite directions. 18. The robotic medical system of claim 11, wherein the flexible segments are contiguous. 19. The robotic medical system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of flexible segments comprises three flexible segments. 20. A robotic medical system, comprising: a catheter having an elongated shaft with a plurality of bendable segments spaced apart along the catheter; and a drive unit configured for independently bending the bendable segments in response to commands received from a remote location. 21. The robotic medical system of claim 20, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 22. The robotic medical system of claim 20, wherein the catheter has a plurality of cables respectively terminating at the flexible segments, and the drive unit is coupled to the plurality of cables. 23. The robotic medical system of claim 20, wherein the catheter has an end effector carried by the elongated shaft, and the drive unit is configured for actuating the end effector in response to the commands received from the remote location. 24. The robotic medical system of claim 20, wherein the drive unit is configured for independently bending at least two of the flexible segments in response to the commands received from the remote location. 25. The robotic medical system of claim 24, wherein the different directions are opposite directions. 26. The robotic medical system of claim 24, wherein the flexible segments are contiguous. 27. The robotic medical system of claim 24, wherein the plurality of flexible segments comprises three flexible segments. 