A robotic device for use in surgery includes a first surgical instrument having a proximal end, a distal end, and a shaft extending therebetween, the distal end of the first instrument and adjacent shaft being insertable distally into a first incision; a first manipulator movably supporting the first instrument; a plurality of motorized drives coupled to the manipulator; an input device having an input movable in two degrees of freedom; and a computer coupling the input device to the motorized drives so that the motorized drives effect a motion of the first surgical instrument in response to movement of the input, a center of the motion located along the shaft at the incision when the first instrument is used during surgery.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic device for use in surgery, the device comprising: a first surgical instrument having a proximal end, a distal end, and a shaft extending therebetween, the distal end of the first instrument and adjacent shaft being insertable distally into a first incision; a computer-controlled first manipulator movably supporting the first instrument; a plurality of motorized drives coupled to the manipulator; an input device having an input movable in two degrees of freedom, wherein the input device is incorporated on the first surgical instrument to enable a user to input one or more instructions to the device while concurrently manipulating the first surgical instrument; and a computer coupling the input device to the motorized drives so that the motorized drives effect a motion of the first surgical instrument in response to movement of the input, a center of the motion located along the shaft at the incision when the first instrument is used during surgery; wherein the robotic device constrains lateral movement of the shaft of the first instrument to pivotal movement about the incision so as to inhibit inadvertent enlargement of the incision. 2. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the motorized drives move the distal end of the first instrument with three rotational degrees of freedom about the center of motion in response to movement of the input. 3. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the motorized drives move the first instrument axially along the shaft in response to movement of the input. 4. The robotic device of claim 3, wherein the manipulator comprises a plurality of actuatable sections extending from a base to the first instrument, and wherein the motorized drives include an axial slide motor, the axial slide motor moving with a plurality of sections adjacent the base, the axial slide motor effecting the movement of the instrument along the shaft. 5. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the input is movable in six degrees of freedom. 6. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the first instrument is movable with a five degree of freedom spherical work volume centered at the incision in response to commands from the input device. 7. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein a workspace of the first manipulator mechanically constrains lateral movement of the shaft of the first instrument to the pivotal movement about the incision. 8. The robotic device of claim 7, wherein the first manipulator mechanically couples the first instrument to a base, the first manipulator having a plurality of computer controlled degrees of freedom adjacent the first instrument and a plurality of manually articulatable degrees of freedom adjacent the base, the manually articulatable degrees of freedom each having a brake for inhibiting movement during computer controlled movement of the first instrument. 9. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the first instrument comprises a camera, and further comprising a display coupled to the camera so as to show a field of view from within the patient to a surgeon operating the input device. 10. The robotic device of claim 9, wherein the camera comprises a stereoscopic camera, and wherein the display provides a three dimensional display of the field of view. 11. The robotic device of claim 10, wherein the computer effects movement of the camera in response to movement of an object within the field of view. 12. The robotic device of claim 11, further comprising a second surgical instrument having a proximal end, a distal end, and a shaft extending therebetween, the distal end of the second instrument and adjacent shaft being insertable distally into a second incision; a second manipulator movably supporting the second instrument, the computer coupling the input device to the second manipulator so as to effect movement of the distal end of the second surgical instrument in response by moving the surgical instrument with a center of motion of the shaft disposed at the incision. 13. The robotic device of claim 1, wherein the first instrument comprises jaws coupled to the distal end of the shaft. 14. A robotic surgical method comprising: inserting a first surgical instrument into a first incision, the first instrument having a distal end, a proximal end, and a shaft extending therebetween, the first instrument being inserted so that the distal end and the adjacent shaft are disposed within a patient, wherein lateral movement of the shaft of the first instrument is constrained to pivotal movement about the incision so as to inhibit inadvertent enlargement of the incision; movably supporting the first instrument with a computer-controlled first manipulator; moving an input of an input device in two degrees of freedom, wherein the input device is incorporated on the first surgical instrument to enable a user to input one or more instructions to the device while concurrently manipulating the first surgical instrument; and computing commands in response to the movement of the input; and moving the first surgical instrument by actuating motorized drives in response to the commands, a center of the instrument movement located along the shaft at the incision. 