To provide versatile radioactive implants and methods of radiation therapy, plating methods such sputtering, as are used to coat single elements such as microspheres, wires and ribbons with radioactive metals, protective layers and identification layers. The resulting solid, radioactive, multilayered seamless elements are implanted individually or combined in intercavity applicators, with fabrics and in ribbons. Because they have selected half-lives and intensities, they provide flexibility in treatment, permitting low intensity or high intensity treatment, using temporary or permanent implants and implants with high intensity or low intensity or controured intensity to permit different therapies.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed, comprising: a microsphere including a central sphere and a layer section with no substantial voids between the central sphere and the layer section; said layer section including at least two layers concentric with the central sphere; said layer section being in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; a first layer of said at least two layers being an outer non-radioactive layer; at least one of said central sphere and layer section including radioactive material, wherein said microsphere has a therapeutic amount of radioactivity; and said microsphere having an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter. 2. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed according to claim 1 in which said layer section includes a second layer and a third layer of said at least two layers, said second layer being a spherical diffusion barrier coat, and said third layer being a spherical coat designed to enhance diagnostic imaging; said first of said at least two layers being a spherical protective coat. 3. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed according to claim 1 in which said layer section includes a thin outermost special-purpose coat. 4. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed according to claim 1 in which the seed contains no free spaces or cavities. 5. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed according to claim 1 in which the seed contains no end-welds. 6. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed according to claim 1 in which said protective coat is not thicker than 0.20 millimeters thick. 7. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed according to claim 1 in which the central sphere is an imaging device marker. 8. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed, comprising: a microsphere including a central sphere and a layer section with no substantial voids between the central sphere and the layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; at least one of said central sphere and layer section including radioactive material wherein said microsphere has a therapeutic amount of radioactivity; said microsphere having an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; said layer section further including a spherical coat designed to enhance diagnostic imaging. 9. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed according to claim 1 further including a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy of less than 100 KeV, and with a half-life of less than 130 days, wherein the multilayer radioactive microsphere is a low energy permanent multilayered radioactive microsphere for permanent interstitial implantation into human tumor tissue. 10. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed according to claim 1 further including a radionuclide with a weighted average gamma energy greater than or equal to 100 KeV and with a half-life of less than 15 to 20 days, wherein the one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed is a high energy permanent multilayered radioactive microsphere for permanent interstitial implantation into human tumor tissues. 11. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 1 in which the layer section includes a radionuclide that has a weighted average gamma energy greater than or equal to 100 KeV, with a half-life of greater than 15 to 20 days, or an average energy less than 100 KeV and a half-life of greater than 130 days, wherein the multilayer radioactive microsphere is a temporary removable multilayered radioactive microsphere for temporary removable interstitial implantation into human tumor tissues. 12. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 1 in which the layer section includes a radionuclide that emits a high energy electron particle without significant high-energy gamma-ray component, wherein the multilayer radioactive microsphere is an electron-producing or beta multilayered radioactive microsphere for permanent or temporary removable interstitial implantation into human tumor tissue. 13. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 1 in which said layer section includes a radioactive coat concentric with said central sphere. 14. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 13 in which the radioactive coat is metalic. 15. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 13 in which the radioactive coat is a mixture of metals. 16. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 13 in which the radioactive coat is a dielectric compound. 17. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 13 in which the radioactive coat is a mixture of compounds. 18. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 13 in which the radioactive coat is a radionuclide bound to a metal. 19. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 13 wherein the radioactive coat includes a compound dielectric material containing one non-radioactive and one radioactive component. 20. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 13 wherein the radioactive coat includes radioactive dielectric compound coat having two or more radioactive components. 21. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 13 in which the radioactive coat is laminated with a nonradioactive and radioactive materials. 22. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive microsphere, comprising: a microsphere including a central sphere and a layer section with no substantial voids between the central sphere and the layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; said microsphere having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; the layer section including a radioactive coat; said radioactive coat being uniformly covered by a spherical diffusion barrier. 23. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 22 wherein the diffusion barrier comprises a metallic coat. 24. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 23 wherein the metallic coat comprises several layers of metals. 25. A multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 23 wherein the metallic coat comprises several layers of compounds and metals. 26. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive microsphere, comprising: a microsphere including a central sphere and a layer section with no substantial voids between the central sphere and the layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; at least one of said central sphere and layer section including radioactive material wherein said microsphere has a therapeutic amount of radioactivity; and said microsphere having an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter wherein the multilayer radioactive microsphere contains an inner spherical uniform coat of a material opaque to imaging rays, wherein the multilayer radioactive microsphere may be imaged by imaging means. 27. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 1 wherein the layer section is covered by a uniform spherical protective coat. 28. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 27 wherein the uniform spherical protective coat is composed of a chemically resistant human tissue-compatible metal having sufficiently low atomic weight to minimize X-ray shielding. 29. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 27 wherein the spherical protective coat is composed of a chemically resistant human tissue-compatible metal compound. 30. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 27 wherein the spherical protective coat is composed of a resistant human tissue-compatible metal coat less than 0.1 millimeters thick which has a high atomic weight. 31. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 27 wherein the spherical protective coat is composed of a human tissue-incompatible metal coat which is covered by a tissue-compatible thin coat, whereby a tissue-compatible outermost coat applied over the protective spherical metal coat permits more toxic but low atomic weight metals to be used as the spherical protective coat. 32. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 27 wherein the tissue-compatible thin coat is sputtered diamond. 33. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 27 wherein the tissue-compatible thin coat is platinum. 34. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 27 wherein the outermost thin coat consists of a special-purpose coat designed to enhance physical properties of the seed, whereby the seed may have its hardness, and corrosion resistance increased. 35. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 27 wherein the outermost thin coat consists of a thin layer used to produce different seed identification colors. 36. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 1 which has a diameter no greater than 0.40 millimeters to permit interstitial tissue implantation by a needle having a size no larger than 20-G. 37. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 1 wherein the multilayer radioactive microsphere contains no more than 1,000 millicuries of activity. 38. The multilayer radioactive microsphere according to claim 1 wherein the multilayer radioactive microsphere produces a completely spherical photon fluence without significant anisotropy. 39. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayer radioactive seed, comprising: a microsphere including a central sphere and a layer section with no substantial voids between the central sphere and the layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; at least one of said central sphere and layer sections including radioactive material, wherein said microsphere includes a therapeutic amount of radioactivity; and said microsphere including a significant amount of ferromagnetic material wherein the sphere may be moved by an externally applied electromagnetic field and apply a therapeutic amount or radioactivity to tissue; said microsphere having a diameter of between 1 millimeter and 9 millimeters. 40. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive microsphere, comprising: a microsphere including a central sphere and a layer section with no substantial voids between the central sphere and the layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentrical with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; said microsphere has a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; said microsphere having a ferromagnetic alloy that is capable of being inductively heated in situ by applied radiofrequency radiation until it passes through a Curie transition at temperatures useful for clinical hyperthermia. 41. A ribbon-multilayer radioactive unit having a plurality of substrate radioactive microspheres with outer diameters between 0.04 and 0.8 millimeters attached to a ribbon. 42. A multilayered seamless radioactive wire, comprising: a central wire section and a layer section; said layer section including at least three layers coaxial with the central wire section, said layer section being in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central wire section; at least one of said central wire section and layer section including radioactive material, wherein said wire has a therapeutic amount of radioactivity; and said wire having an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter. 43. A one-piece seamless multilayered radioactive ocular applicator, comprising: a substrate section and a layer section; said layer section including at least one layer in intimate contact with a surface of the substrate section; said applicator having a surface curved adapted to conform to a portion of the eye and containing a therapeutic amount of radioactivity in which radioactive multilayers in the layer section having a thickness no greater than 0.5 millimeters. 44. A radioactive applicator comprising: surgical factor containing multiple evenly-spaced multilayer radioactive microspheres; each of said microspheres being a one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed having a central sphere and a layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; at least one of said central sphere and layer section including radioactive material, wherein said microsphere has a therapeutic amount of radioactivity; and said microsphere having an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter. 45. A radioactive applicator according to claim 44 in which said surgical fabric is tissue absorbable. 46. A minituriazed intracavitary source comprising: a container having thin walls; a plurality of one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seeds within said container; at least certain of said seeds including a central sphere and a layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; certain of said seeds having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity selected to cooperate with certain other of said seeds in said container and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; and said intracavitary source having an active length of between 10 millimeters and 40 millimeters. 47. An intracavitary applicator, comprising: a container having thin wall; said contained having an internal compartment with an internal diameter less than 1 millimeter and a length larger than 10 millimeters; said container including a closure wherein the container is adapted to receive and confine a plurality of removable radioactive elements for afterloading. 48. An intracavitary applicator according to claim 48 further including a plurality of one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seeds having selected radioactivities whereby the container may be loaded to serve as a cervical intercavity applicator; each of said microspheres including a central sphere and a layer section; said layer section including at least one layer concentric with the central sphere and in intimate contact with the outer surface of the central sphere; at least one of said central sphere and layer section including radioactive material, wherein said microspheres having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity; said microspheres having an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; and said applicator having an active length of between 10 millimeters and 40 millimeters. 49. A ribbon-multilayer radioactive unit according to claim 41 in which both the ribbon and the substrate microspheres have an outer coat of the same material. 50. A one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed, comprising: a microsphere including a central sphere and a layer section with no substantial voids between the central sphere and the layer section; said layer section including at least one radioactive layer concentric with the central sphere, said radioactive layer having a peak-to-valley height variation that does not exceed plus or minus 400 angstroms; and said microsphere has a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter. 51. A ribbon-multilayer radioactive unit having a plurality of substrate radioactive microspheres with outer diameters between 0.04 and 0.08 millimeters attached to a ribbon; said microspheres having a radioactive layer; said radioactive layer having a peak-to-valley height variation that does not exceed plus or minus 400 angstroms. 52. A multilayered seamless radioactive wire, comprising: a central wire section and a layer section; said layer section including at least one radioactive layer coaxial with the central wire section; said radioactive layer having a peak-to-valley height variation that does not exceed plus or minus 400 angstroms; and said wire having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter. 53. A one-piece seamless multilayered radioactive ocular applicator, comprising: a substrate section and a layer section; said layer section including at least one radioactive layer, said radioactive layer having a peak-to-valley height variation that does not exceed plus or minus 400 angstroms; and said applicator having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity in which radioactive multilayers in the layer section having a thickness no greater than 0.5 millimeters. 54. A radioactive applicator, comprising: surgical fabric containing multiple evenly-spaced multilayer radioactive microspheres; each of said microspheres being a one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seed having a central sphere and a layer section; said layer section being in intimate contact with the outer surface of said central sphere; said layer section including at least one radioactive layer concentric with the central sphere; said radioactive layer having a peak-to-valley height variation that does not exceed plus or minus 400 angstroms; and said microsphere having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter. 55. A miniturized intracavitary source, comprising: a container having thin walls; a plurality of one-piece substantially spherical seamless multilayered radioactive seeds within said container; at least certain of said seeds including a central sphere and a layer section; said layer section including at least one radioactive layer concentric with the central sphere; said radioactive layer having a peak-to-valley height variation that does not exceed plus or minus 400 angstroms; certain of said seeds having a therapeutic amount of radioactivity selected to cooperate with certain other of said seeds in said container and an outside diameter no greater than 1 millimeter; and said intracavitary source having an active length of between 10 millimeters and 40 millimeters. 