An automated tape library employing a motorized robotic picker wherein the electric motor driving the robotic picker is equipped with two brakes that act simultaneously. The first is a mechanical brake which uses a spring to push a fixed brake pad against the rotating motor. During normal motor operation, an electric solenoid is used to overcome the spring and disengage the brake pad from the motor. When the robotic picker is to be mechanically stopped, the solenoid voltage is turned off and the solenoid releases the spring placing the brake pad in contact with the motor. The second brake is a dynamic electrical brake which makes use of the back emf of the motor to drive a current back into its own windings such that the motor decelerates. The circuit further prevents mechanical brake engagement even at lower motor speeds when back emf is relatively low but robot speed is fast enough to cause mechanical damage if stopped via the mechanical brake.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed as new and what is desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A dynamic braking circuit for an electric motor comprising: a mechanical brake power supply having first and second terminals; a first control relay having first, second, third and fourth movable contacts and a coil, said coil having first and second terminals; a brake solenoid having first and second terminals; a first resistor R.sub.t having a first terminal connected to said first movable contact of said first control relay and a second terminal; a first capacitor C.sub.t being connected in series with said first resistor and between said first resistor at its second terminal and said second movable contact of said first control relay; a second resistor R.sub.b being connected in parallel with said first capacitor C.sub.t ; said first movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said first terminal of said coil of said first control relay and said first terminal of said brake solenoid; said second movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said second terminal of said coil of said first control relay and said second terminal of said brake solenoid; said third movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said second terminal of said brake solenoid and one of said terminals of said brake power supply; said fourth movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said first terminal of said brake solenoid and the other of said terminals of said brake power supply; a rectifier bridge connected in parallel with said first relay coil; a third resistor having a first and second terminal and being connected in parallel with said rectifier bridge, said second terminal being further connected to said electric motor. 2. The braking control circuit of claim 1 wherein C.sub.t is 470 microfarads, R.sub.t is 100 ohms and R.sub.b is 10,000 ohms. 3. The braking control circuit of claim 1 further including a fourth resistor having a first terminal and second terminal, said second terminal connected to said electric motor, a fifth resistor having a first terminal and second terminal, said second terminal connected to said electric motor, and a second control relay having first and second movable contacts and a coil, said first movable contact between said first terminal of said third resistor and said first terminal of said fourth resistor and said second movable contact between said first terminal of said fourth resistor and said first terminal of said fifth resistor. 4. The braking control circuit of claim 1 wherein said electric motor is an AC motor. 5. The braking control circuit of claim 1 wherein said electric motor is a DC motor. 6. The braking control circuit of claim 1 wherein said mechanical brake power supply is disconnected from said circuit when an emergency power off button is depressed. 7. A dynamic braking circuit for an electric motor comprising: a mechanical brake power supply; a first control relay having first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth movable contacts and a coil, said coil having first and second terminals; a brake solenoid having first and second terminals; a first rectifier bridge connected in parallel with said first relay coil; a second rectifier bridge connected in parallel with said first brake solenoid; a first resistor having a first and second terminal, said first terminal being connected to said first rectifier bridge and said second terminal being further connected to said electric motor; a second resistor having a first and second terminal, said second terminal being connected to said electric motor; a third resistor having a first and second terminal, said second terminal being connected to said electric motor; said first movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said first terminal of said coil of said first control relay and said first terminal of said brake solenoid; said second movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said second terminal of said coil of said first control relay and said second terminal of said brake solenoid; said third movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said second rectifier bridge and said second terminal of said second resistor; said fourth movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said second rectifier bridge and a first teminal of said brake power supply; said fifth movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said second rectifier bridge and a second terminal of said brake power supply; said sixth movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said second rectifier bridge and a second terminal of said third resistor. 8. The circuit of claim 7 wherein said fourth and said fifth movable contacts of said first control relay are normally closed and said first, second, third and sixth movable contacts of said first control relay are normally open. 9. The braking control circuit of claim 7 further including a second control relay having first and second movable contacts and a coil, said first movable contact between said first terminal of said first resistor and said first terminal of said second resistor and said second movable contact between said first terminal of said second resistor and said first terminal of said third resistor. 10. A dynamic braking circuit for an electric motor comprising: a mechanical brake power supply having first and second terminals; a first control relay having first, second, third and fourth movable contacts and a coil, said coil having first and second terminals; a brake solenoid having first and second terminals; a first resistor R.sub.t having a first terminal connected to said first movable contact of said first control relay and a second terminal; a first capacitor C.sub.t being connected in series with said first resistor and between said first resistor at its second terminal and said second movable contact of said first control relay; said first movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said first terminal of said coil of said first control relay and said first terminal of said brake solenoid; said second movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said second terminal of said coil of said first control relay and said second terminal of said brake solenoid; said third movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said second terminal of said brake solenoid and one of said terminals of said brake power supply; said fourth movable contact of said first control relay being connected between said first terminal of said brake solenoid and the other of said terminals of said brake power supply; a rectifier bridge connected in parallel with said first relay coil; a third resistor having a first and second terminal and being connected in parallel with said rectifier bridge, said second terminal being further connected to said electric motor. 11. The braking control circuit of claim 10 wherein C.sub.t is 470 microfarads, R.sub.t is 100 ohms and R.sub.b is 10,000 ohms. 12. The braking control circuit of claim 10 further including a fourth resistor having a first terminal and second terminal, said second terminal connected to said electric motor, a fifth resistor having a first terminal and second terminal, said second terminal connected to said electric motor, and a second control relay having first and second movable contacts and a coil, said first movable contact between said first terminal of said third resistor and said first terminal of said fourth resistor and said second movable contact between said first terminal of said fourth resistor and said first terminal of said fifth resistor. 13. The braking control circuit of claim 10 wherein said electric motor is an AC motor. 14. The braking control circuit of claim 10 wherein said electric motor is a DC motor. 15. The braking control circuit of claim 10 wherein said mechanical brake power supply is disconnected from said circuit when an emergency power off button is depressed. 