The invention discloses an Ultrafast Electro-Dynamic X, Y and Theta Positioning Stage. A positioning stage made according to this invention allows light payloads to be moved with extremely high linear and angular accelerations over finite distances and angles with a plane. An important feature of this invention is a momentum-cancelling design which allows reaction forces and torques on the fixed member to approach zero, thereby, allowing for a smooth and an ultrafast performance by the positioning stage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A precision positioning stage capable of executing multi-dimensional planar motion comprising: a) at least one fixed assembly, said fixed assembly comprising at least a first part and at least a second part, said first and said second part having at least one magnet secured thereto, such that at least a portion of said magnets are close enough to magnetically influence at least a portion of at least one first moving element, and wherein said first and said second part are on the opposite sides of said at least one first moving element, b) said at least one first moving element has at least one coil that can be electrically energized, and wherein said at least one first moving element is not physically connected to said fixed assembly, and wherein said fixed assembly has means for making said at least one first moving element float within said fixed assembly, wherein said at least one first moving element moves with respect to said fixed assembly at high speed when electrically energized, and wherein the momentum of said moving element is instantaneously opposed to prevent momentum from being transferred to said fixed assembly, thereby providing said precision positioning stage. 2. The precision positioning stage of claim 1, wherein at least one second moving element provides said instantaneous momentum opposition. 3. The precision positioning stage of claim 1, wherein said fixed assembly and said moving element forms a motor, and wherein the motion of said moving element is measured by a sensor, said sensor provides information to a controller means and wherein said controller insures that a desired motion is achieved. 4. The precision positioning stage of claim 1, wherein said moving element is juxtapositioned with said fixed assembly in a friction minimizing manner. 5. The precision positioning stage of claim 2, wherein circuit means provide actuation currents. 6. The precision positioning stage of claim 2, wherein each of said moving elements have at least one coil interacting with a magnetic field and at least one coil from said each moving element shares the same magnetic field. 7. The precision positioning stage of claim 1, wherein said magnets in said fixed assembly are either a permanent magnet or an electromagnet. 8. The precision positioning stage of claim 7, wherein at least one said magnet has an electrically conducting foil over the surface that faces said moving element. 9. The precision positioning stage of claim 2, wherein at least one of said moving element has at least three coils and wherein at least two of said coils are in the same plane. 10. The precision positioning stage of claim 2, wherein at least one of said moving element has at least three coils and wherein at least one of said coil is in a different plane. 11. The precision positioning stage of claim 2, wherein at least one of said moving element is rigid in the plane of motion but flexible out of the plane of motion. 12. The precision positioning stage of claim 1, wherein said moving element has at least one coil, said coil is supported by a structure and wherein said structure covers at least a portion of said moving element. 13. The precision positioning stage of claim 1, wherein said moving element has a coil and said coil is cooled by a fluid. 14. The precision positioning stage of claim 13, wherein said fluid is selected from a group comprising air, argon, chlorofluorocarbon, fluorocarbon, helium or nitrogen. 15. The precision positioning stage of claim 13, wherein the temperature of said cooling fluid is lower than the temperature of said positioning stage. 16. The precision positioning stage of claim 1, wherein a position sensor is secured to said stage. 17. The precision positioning stage of claim 16, wherein said sensor senses X, Y and theta motion. 18. The precision positioning stage of claim 1, wherein the movement of said moving element is analog or digital controlled. 19. The precision positioning stage of claim 2, wherein the movement of said second moving element is analog or digital controlled. 20. The precision positioning stage of claim 2, wherein the mass of said moving element is the same as the mass of said second moving element. 21. The precision positioning stage of claim 2, wherein the mass of said moving element is different than the mass of said second moving element. 22. The precision positioning stage of claim 1, wherein said moving element is acceleration, position or velocity controlled. 23. The precision positioning stage of claim 2, wherein said second moving element is acceleration, position or velocity controlled. 24. The precision positioning stage of claim 1, wherein said precision positioning stage has fluid bearing means. 25. The precision positioning stage of claim 24, wherein said fluid is selected from a group comprising air, argon, chlorofluorocarbon, fluorocarbon, helium and nitrogen. 26. The precision positioning stage of claim 24, wherein said fluid bearing means also provide cooling means for said precision positioning stage. 27. The precision positioning stage of claim 24, wherein said fluid bearing means also provide cooling means for said moving element. 28. The precision positioning stage of claim 24, wherein the temperature of said fluid is lower than the temperature of said positioning stage. 29. A precision positioning stage capable of executing multi-dimensional planar motion comprising: a) a first fixed assembly, said first fixed assembly having at least one magnet secured thereto, such that at least a portion of said magnet is close enough to magnetically influence at least a portion of at least one first moving element, b) said at least one first moving element has at least one coil that can be electrically energized, c) at least one second fixed assembly, said first moving element being contained within said first and said second fixed assemblies, said second fixed assembly having at least one magnet secured thereto, such that at least a portion of said magnet is close enough to magnetically influence at least a portion of said at least one first moving element and at least a portion of at least one second moving element, d) said at least one second moving element has at least one coil that can be electrically energized, e) a third fixed assembly, such that said second moving element is contained within said second and said third fixed assemblies, said third fixed assembly having at least one magnet secured thereto, such that at least a portion of said magnet is close enough to magnetically influence at least a portion of said at least one second moving element, said first and second moving elements are not physically connected to any of said assemblies, and wherein at least two of said fixed assemblies have means for making said first and said second moving elements float within said fixed assemblies, and wherein said first moving element moves in a momentum cancelling manner with respect to said second moving element when said coils are electrically energized. 30. The precision positioning stage of claim 29, wherein at least three coils are securely held inside at least one of said moving elements. 31. The precision positioning stage of claim 29, wherein said moving elements have at least one coil, and said fixed assemblies have at least one magnet. 32. The precision positioning stage of claim 31, wherein at least one of said magnet has an electrically conducting foil over the surface that faces at least one of said moving elements. 33. The precision positioning stage of claim 29, wherein said precision positioning stage has fluid bearing means. 34. The precision positioning stage of claim 33, wherein said fluid is selected from a group comprising air, argon, chlorofluorocarbon, fluorocarbon, helium and nitrogen. 35. The precision positioning stage of claim 33, wherein said fluid bearing means also provide cooling means for said precision positioning stage. 36. The precision positioning stage of claim 33, wherein said fluid bearing means also provide cooling means for at least one of said moving elements. 37. The precision positioning stage of claim 33, wherein the temperature of the inlet fluid is lower than the temperature of said positioning stage. 38. The precision positioning stage of claim 29, wherein a position sensor is securely attached to said precision positioning stage. 39. The precision positioning stage of claim 29, wherein said fixed assemblies and said moving elements form a motor, and wherein the motion of at least one of said moving element is measured by a sensor, said sensor provides information to a controller means and wherein said controller insures that a desired motion is achieved. 40. A precision positioning stage capable of executing multi-dimensional planar motion comprising: a) a first fixed assembly, said first fixed assembly having at least one magnet secured thereto, such that at least a portion of said magnet is close enough to magnetically influence at least a portion of at least one first moving element, b) said at least one first moving element has at least one coil that can be electrically energized, c) at least one second moving element, said at least one second moving element has at least one coil that can be electrically energized, d) a second fixed assembly, such that said first and said second moving elements are contained within said first and said second fixed assemblies, said second fixed assembly has at least one magnet secured thereto, such that at least a portion of said magnet is close enough to magnetically influence at least a portion of said at least one second moving element, said first and second moving elements are not physically connected to any of said assemblies, and wherein at least two of said fixed assemblies have means for making said first and said second moving elements float within said fixed assemblies, and wherein said first moving element moves in a momentum cancelling manner with respect to said second moving element when said coils are electrically energized. 41. The precision positioning stage of claim 40, wherein at least three coils are securely held inside at least one of said moving elements. 42. The precision positioning stage of claim 40, wherein said moving elements have at least one coil, and said fixed assemblies have at least one magnet. 43. The precision positioning stage of claim 42, wherein at least one of said magnet has an electrically conducting foil over the surface that faces at least one of said moving elements. 44. The precision positioning stage of claim 40, wherein said precision positioning stage has fluid bearing means. 45. The precision positioning stage of claim 44, wherein said fluid is selected from the group comprising air, argon, chlorofluorocarbon, fluorocarbon, helium or nitrogen. 46. The precision positioning stage of claim 44, wherein said fluid bearing means also provide cooling means for said precision positioning stage. 47. The precision positioning stage of claim 44, wherein said fluid bearing means also provide cooling means for at least one of said moving elements. 48. The precision positioning stage of claim 44, wherein the temperature of said fluid is lower than the temperature of said positioning stage. 49. The precision positioning stage of claim 40, wherein a position sensor is securely attached to said precision positioning stage. 50. The precision positioning stage of claim 40, wherein said fixed assemblies and said moving elements form a motor, and wherein the motion of at least one of said moving element is measured by a sensor, said sensor provides information to a controller means and wherein said controller insures that a desired motion is achieved. 