Compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression and function of small non-coding RNAs. The compositions comprise oligomeric compounds, targeted to small non-coding RNAs. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of small non-coding RNAs as well as downstream targets of these RNAs and for diagnosis and treatment of disease associated with small non-coding RNAs are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of treating or preventing a disease or disorder associated with a microRNA comprising: contacting an animal having or predisposed to the disorder with a therapeutically effective amount of compound comprising an oligomeric compound consisting of 15 to 30 monomeric subunits, wherein the oligomeric compound is at least 90% complementary to the microRNA, and at least one monomeric subunit is a modified nucleoside; and thereby treating or preventing the disease or disorder; wherein the disease or disorder is diabetes or hypertension, and the oligomeric compound reduces one or more markers of insulin response. 2. A method of modulating one or more phenotypic outcomes comprising: contacting a cell with a compound comprising an oligomeric compound consisting of 15 to 30 monomeric subunits, wherein the oligomeric compound is at least 90% complementary to a microRNA, and wherein at least one monomeric subunit is a modified nucleoside; and thereby modulating one or more phenotypic outcomes; wherein the one or more phenotypic outcomes is insulin response, and wherein the method further comprises detecting the modulation by a change in one or more markers of insulin response. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the one or more markers of insulin response is selected from insulin-like growth factor binding protein-1 (IGFBP-1) expression, cytosolic PEPCK (PEPCK-C) expression, and follistatin expression. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the microRNA is a let-7 homolog. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the oligomeric compound is at least 95% complementary to a let-7homolog. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the oligomeric compound is 100% complementary to a let-7homolog. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the oligomeric compound is 100% complementary to at least an 8-nucleobase portion of let-7homolog. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the oligomeric compound consists of an oligonucleotide. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one monomeric subunit comprises a modified sugar moiety. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the modified sugar moiety is selected from a 2'-F sugar moiety, a 2'-O-methyl sugar moiety, a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety, and a bicyclic sugar moiety. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the oligomeric compound comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 13. The method of claim 2, wherein the oligomeric compound consists of an oligonucleotide. 14. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one monomeric subunit comprises a modified sugar moiety. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the modified sugar moiety is selected from a 2'-F sugar moiety, a 2'-O-methyl sugar moiety, a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety, and a bicyclic sugar moiety. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the oligomeric compound comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 