This invention provides a signal processing and signal synthesis technique from a family of signal processing and signal synthesis techniques designed to readily interwork or be used individually in creating new forms of rich musical timbres. Phase staggered multi-channel signal panning creates spatial perturbation and chase effects for subtle or dramatic application, and may be swept with control signals from a low-frequency oscillator, transient envelope, or other source. Phase-staggering and modulation parameters may be recalled from stored program control or modulated in real-time by arbitrary control signals, including those derived from the original input signal. The invention may be used individually or in conjunction with other signal processing and signal synthesis techniques in creating new forms of rich musical timbres. The invention may also be used in spatially-distributed timbre construction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlled staggered panning of multi-channel audio signals, said system comprising: a master time-varying control signal; a processor for generating at least three panning control signals responsive to a distinct phase-staggered function of said master time-varying control signal; and at least three controllable audio signal panning elements individually structured for panning a separate incoming audio signal responsive to an associated one of said at least three panning control signals. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said master time-varying control signal varies periodically. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said master time-varying control signal varies according to a triggered transient signal. 4. The system according to claim 1, wherein each panning control signal of said at least three panning control signals are provided to a mixer unit, and wherein said mixer unit mixes each panning control signal of said at least three panning control signals to produce a plurality of mixed output signals. 5. The system according to claim 4, wherein each panning element of said at least three controllable audio signal panning elements are integrated with said mixer unit. 6. The system according to claim 4, wherein said plurality of mixed output signals comprise a stereo output. 7. The system according to claim 4, wherein said plurality of mixed output signals and said processor are configured to provide location modulation comprising two spatial dimensions. 8. The system according to claim 4, wherein said plurality of mixed output signals and said processor are configured to provide location modulation comprising three spatial dimensions. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of said distinct phase-staggered functions is determined responsive to an incoming MIDI signal. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein said master time-varying control signal varies periodically as controlled by an incoming MIDI signal. 11. The system according to claim 3, wherein said triggered transient signal is controlled by an incoming MIDI signal. 12. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system provides one signal processing layer of a multi-layered signal processing system. 13. The system according to claim 1, wherein said system is incorporated into a spatially-distributed timbral realization system. 14. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of said at least three controllable audio signal panning elements produces a plurality of outgoing audio signals according to an associated one of said at least three panning control signals. 15. The system according to claim 1, wherein each of said at least three panning control signals further comprises a time-varying value, and wherein amplitude of said time-varying value of each of said panning control signals is adjustable. 16. The system according to claim 15, further comprising: an incoming control signal for adjusting said amplitude of said time-varying value of each of said panning control signals. 17. A method for controlled staggered panning of multi-channel audio signals, said method comprising: receiving at least three incoming audio signals at an associated at least three controllable signal panning elements, wherein each panning element of said at least three controllable signal panning elements receives one of said at least three incoming audio signals; producing a plurality of outgoing panned audio signals at each panning element of said at least three controllable signal panning elements in response to a separate panning control signal associated with each of said at least three controllable signal panning elements; and generating said panning control signal for each panning element of said at least three controllable signal panning elements, wherein each panning control signal of said at least three panning control signals is generated using an associated function of a common time-varying control signal, wherein the common time-varying control signal varies periodically. 18. The method according to claim 17, wherein said common time-varying control signal varies according to a triggered transient signal. 19. The method according to claim 17, wherein each panning control signal of said at least three panning control signals are provided to a mixer unit, and wherein said mixer unit mixes each panning control signal of said at least three panning control signals to produce a plurality of mixed output signals. 20. The method according to claim 19, wherein each panning element of said at least three controllable signal panning elements are integrated with said mixer unit. 21. The method according to claim 19, wherein said plurality of mixed output signals comprise a stereo output. 22. The method according to claim 19, wherein said plurality of mixed output signals provide location modulation comprising two spatial dimensions. 23. The method according to claim 19, wherein said plurality of mixed output signals provide location modulation comprising three spatial dimensions. 24. The method according to claim 17, wherein at least one of said plurality of associated functions used to generate each of said plurality of panning control signals is controlled by an incoming MIDI 25. The method according to claim 17, wherein said time-varying control signal varies periodically as controlled by an incoming MIDI signal. 26. The method according to claim 18, wherein said triggered transient signal is controlled by an incoming MIDI signal. 27. The method according to claim 17, wherein said method is implemented within one signal processing layer of a multi-layered signal processing system. 28. The method according to claim 17, wherein said method is implemented within a spatially-distributed timbral realization system. 29. The method according to claim 17, said method further comprising: adjusting amplitude of a time-varying value of each of said at least three panning control signals. 30. The method according to claim 29, wherein said adjusting is responsive to an incoming control signal. 