A new method and apparatus for fabrication or alignment of fixtures, jigs and structures is disclosed. The invention uses target points on one or more details which are referenced to the overall structure via targets on the details. These targets are monitored by a TV camera unit which is alternatively interfaced to a display for the human operator or a robot to provide position data. The interface may include input from a CAD system which allows display on robot coordinates to be offset by design data of the structure or a part to be located on it. While mainly envisioned for assistance in constructing fixtures for automobile assembly, the disclosed invention is widely useable for all types of construction including aircraft, bridges, boats, buses, houses, buildings and the like. A means for improving resolution of automatically servoed camera based systems is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of constructing a fixture having a locating member for holding an object in a predetermined position in the fixture comprising the steps of: providing a support member on the fixture; and positioning a locating member on the support member such that the locating member is positioned in an object-holding position to hold the object in the predetermined position, said step of positioning the locating member on the support member comprising the steps of (a) positioning the locating member in a first position on the support member, (b) automatically sensing the first position of the locating member, (c) automatically comparing the sensed first position of the locating member with the predetermined object-holding position of the locating member to produce a comparison, (d) automatically generating instructions, utilizing the comparison, for repositioning the locating member from the first position to the predetermined object-holding position, and (e) moving the locating member to a second position pursuant to the instructions in order to position the locating member at the predetermined object-holding position. 2. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1, wherein said step of positioning the locating member on the support member further includes the steps of: (f) automatically sensing the position of the locating member in the second position, (g) automatically comparing the sensed second position of the locating member with the predetermined object-holding position of the locating member to produce a second comparison, (h) determining from the second comparison whether the locating member is at the predetermined object-holding position; and (i) if the locating member is not at the predetermined object-holding position, repeating the moving step (e), the automatically sensing step (f), the automatically comparing step (g) and the determining step (h) for as many additional positions of the locating member as necessary until the locating member is in the predetermined object-holding position. 3. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1, and further including the step of sensing positions of reference. 4. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1, and further including the performing of said steps (a) through (e) for at least one additional locating member and an associated support member and associated predetermined object-holding position. 5. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1, wherein said automatically comparing step (c) includes the step of deriving the predetermined object-holding position from a CAD data base of the object to be held in the fixture. 6. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1 wherein said automatically generating step (d) includes displaying movements required for repositioning the locating member to an operator. 7. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 4 wherein the at least one additional locating member is a device for working on the held object, and further including the step of working on the held object after the locating members are positioned. 8. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1 wherein said steps (a) through (e) for the locating member are performed in multiple degrees of freedom. 9. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 1 wherein said step of positioning the locating member on the support member further includes the steps of: (f) attaching the locating member to the support member when the locating member is in the predetermined object-holding position. 10. An apparatus for constructing a fixture for holding an object in a predetermined position comprising: a fixture base, including a support member on the fixture base; a locating member for the support member which is contacted by the object when the object is in the predetermined position; a positioning means for positioning the locating member in a first position on the support member; a sensing means for automatically sensing the first position of the locating member; a comparing means for automatically comparing the sensed first position of the locating member with a predetermined object-holding position of the locating member to produce a comparison; and a generating means for automatically generating instructions, utilizing the comparison, for repositioning the locating member with said positioning means from the first position to a second position pursuant to the instructions in order to position the locating member at the predetermined object-holding position and to form the fixture. 11. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 10 and further including a control means for causing: said sensing means to sense the second position of the locating member; said comparing means to automatically compare the sensed second position of the locating member with the predetermined object-holding position of the locating member to produce a second comparison; a determining means to determine from the second comparison whether the locating member is at the predetermined object-holding position; and if the locating member is not at the predetermined object-holding position, said generating means to automatically generate instructions, using the second comparison, for repositioning the locating member from the second position to a third position pursuant to the instructions. 12. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 10 and further including a sensing means for sensing positions of reference. 13. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 11, and further including at least one second support member on the fixture base and an associated second locating member, and wherein said control means also controls the positioning of the second locating member relative to said second support member with said positioning means, said sensing means, said comparing means and said generating means. 14. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 10 wherein said comparing means includes a deriving means for deriving the predetermined object-holding position from a CAD data base of the object to be held in the fixture. 15. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 10 wherein said generating means includes a displaying means for displaying movements required for repositioning the locating member to an operator. 16. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 13 wherein the at least one second locating member is a working means for working on the held object after the locating members are positioned. 17. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 10 wherein said positioning means, said sensing means, said comparing means and said generating means operate in multiple degrees of freedom. 18. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 10 and further including an attaching means for attaching the locating member to the support member when the locating member is in the predetermined object-holding position. 19. A method of constructing a fixture having a locating member for holding an object in a predetermined position in the fixture comprising the steps of: providing a support member of the fixture; positioning a locating member on the support member such that the locating member is positioned in an object-holding position to hold the object in the predetermined position, the locating member having at least one fixed target positioned thereon which is capable of being optically sensed, said step of positioning the locating member on the support member comprising the steps of (a) positioning the locating member in a first position on the support member, (b) automatically sensing the position of the at least one target of the locating member when the locating member is in the first position, (c) automatically comparing the sensed position of the at least one target of the locating member in the first position with a predetermined reference position of the at least one target to produce a comparison, the reference position being the position at which the at least one target will be when the locating member is in the predetermined object-holding position, (d) automatically generating instructions, utilizing the comparison, for repositioning the locating member from the first position to the predetermined object-holding position, and (e) moving the locating member to a second position pursuant to the instructions in order to position the locating member at the predetermined object-holding position; and securing the locating member to the support member in the object-holding position. 20. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 19 wherein said step of positioning the locating member on the support member further includes the steps of: (f) automatically sensing the position of the at least one target when the locating member is in the second position, (g) automatically comparing the sensed position of the at least one target of the locating member in the second position with the predetermined reference position of the at least one target to produce a second comparison, (h) determining from the second comparison whether the locating member is at the predetermined object-holding position, and (i) if the locating member is not at the predetermined object-holding position, repeating the moving step (e), the automatically sensing step (f), the automatically comparing step (g) and the determining step (h) for as many additional positions of the locating member as necessary until the locating member is in the predetermined object-holding position. 21. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 19 wherein there are a plurality of the targets positioned on the locating member, and wherein said sensing step (b) senses the plurality of targets and said comparing step (c) compares the sensed positions of the plurality of targets with reference positions thereof. 22. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 19 and further including the step of sensing positions of reference. 23. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 22 wherein said sensing of positions of reference step includes the viewing of an optically visible feature. 24. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 19 and further including the performing of said steps (a) through (e) for at least one additional locating member and an associated support member and associated predetermined object-holding position. 25. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 19 wherein said automatically comparing step (c) includes the step of deriving the predetermined reference position and object-holding position from a CAD data base of the object to be held in the fixture. 26. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 19 wherein said automatically generating step (d) includes displaying movements required for repositioning the locating member to an operator. 27. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 24 wherein the at least one additional locating member is a device for working on the held object, and further including the step of working on the held object after the locating members are positioned. 28. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 19 wherein said steps (a) through (e) for the at least one target and locating member are performed in multiple degrees of freedom. 29. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 19 wherein said sensing step includes the step of positioning the target for viewing from multiple directions. 30. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 19 wherein said sensing step includes the step of viewing the target with at least one TV camera. 31. A method of constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 24 and further including the step of coding the target of each associated locating member differently so that the locating member can be identified with the coded target. 32. An apparatus for constructing a fixture for holding an object in a predetermined position comprising: a fixture base, including a support member on the fixture base; a locating member for the support member which is contacted by the object when the object is in the predetermined position; at least one fixed target positioned on the locating member which is capable of being optically sensed; a positioning means for positioning the locating member in a first position on the support member; a sensing means for automatically sensing the position the at least one target of the locating member when the locating member is in the first position; a comparing means for automatically comparing the sensed position of the at least one target of the locating member in the first position with a predetermined reference position of the at least one target to produce a comparison, the reference position being the position at which the at least one target will be when the locating member is in the predetermined object-holding position; a generating means for automatically generating instructions, utilizing the comparison, for repositioning the locating member with said positioning means from the first position to a second position pursuant to the instruction in order to position the locating member at the predetermined object-holding position; and a securing means for securing the locating member to the support member in the object-holding position to form the fixture. 33. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 32 and further including a control means for causing: said sensing means to sense the position of the at least one target when the locating member is in the second position; said comparing means to automatically compare the sensed position of the at least one target of the locating member in the second position with the predetermined reference position of the at least one target to produce a second comparison; a determining means to determine from the second comparison whether the locating member is at the predetermined object-holding position; and if the locating member is not at the predetermined object-holding position, said generating means to automatically generate instructions, using the second comparison, for repositioning the locating member from the second position to a third position pursuant to the instructions. 34. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 32 wherein there are a plurality of the targets positioned on the locating member, wherein said sensing means senses the plurality of targets, and wherein said comparing means compares the sensed positions of the plurality of targets with reference positions thereof. 35. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 32 and further including a sensing means for sensing positions of reference. 36. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 35 wherein said sensing means for sensing positions of reference includes a viewing means for viewing of an optically visible feature. 37. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 33 and further including at least one second support member on the fixture base and an associated second locating member with a fixed target positioned on the second locating member, and wherein said control means also controls the positioning of the second locating member relative to said second support member with said positioning means, said sensing means, said comparing means and said generating means. 38. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 32 wherein said comparing means includes a deriving means for deriving the predetermined reference position and object-holding position from a CAD data base of the object to be held in the fixture. 39. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 32 wherein said generating means includes a displaying means for displaying movements required for repositioning the locating member to an operator. 40. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 37 wherein the at least one second locating member is a working means for working on the held object after the locating members are positioned. 41. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 32 wherein said positioning means, said sensing means, said comparing means and said generating means for the at least one target and locating member operate in multiple degrees of freedom. 42. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 32 wherein the targets are positioned for viewing from multiple directions. 43. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 32 wherein said sensing means includes at least one TV camera for viewing the target. 44. An apparatus for constructing a fixture as claimed in claim 37 wherein the target of each associated locating member is differently coded so that the locating member can be identified with the coded target. 45. A method of constructing a structure having a detail member in a predetermined position on a base member of the structure comprising the steps of: providing a base member of the structure; and positioning a detail member on the base member such that the detail member is positioned in the predetermined position, said step of positioning the detail member on the base member comprising the steps of (a) positioning the detail member in a first position on the base member, (b) automatically sensing the first position of the detail member, (c) automatically comparing the sensed first position of the detail member with the predetermined position of the detail member to produce a comparison, (d) automatically generating instructions, utilizing the comparison, for repositioning the detail member from the first position to the predetermined position, and (e) moving the detail member to a second position pursuant to the instructions in order to position the detail member at the predetermined position. 46. A method of constructing a structure as claimed in claim 45 wherein said step of positioning the detail member on the base member further includes the steps of: (f) automatically sensing the position of the detail member in the second position, (g) automatically comparing the sensed second position of the detail member with the predetermined position of the detail member to produce a second comparison, (h) determining from the second comparison whether the detail member is at the predetermined position; and (i) if the detail member is not at the predetermined position, repeating the moving step (e), the automatically sensing step (f), the automatically comparing step (g) and the determining step (h) for as many additional positions of the detail member as necessary until the detail member is in the predetermined position. 47. A method of constructing a structure as claimed in claim 45 and further including the step of sensing positions of reference. 48. A method of constructing a structure as claimed in claim 45 and further including the performing of said steps (a) through (e) for at least one additional detail member and an associated base member and associated predetermined position. 49. A method of constructing a structure as claimed in claim 45 wherein said automatically comparing step (c) includes the step of deriving the predetermined position from a CAD data base of the structure. 50. A method of constructing a structure as claimed in claim 45 wherein said automatically generating step (d) includes displaying movements required for repositioning the detail member to an operator. 51. A method of constructing a structure as claimed in claim 48 wherein the at least one additional detail member is a device for working on the first-mentioned detail member, and further including the step of working on the first-mentioned detail member after the at least one additional detail members is positioned. 52. A method of constructing a structure as claimed in claim 45 wherein said steps (a) through (e) for the detail member are performed in multiple degrees of freedom. 53. A method of constructing a structure as claimed in claim 45 wherein said step of positioning the detail member on the base member further includes the steps of: (f) attaching the detail member to the base member when the detail member is in the predetermined position. 54. An apparatus for constructing a structure comprising: a base member of the structure; a detail member for the base member to be positioned in a predetermined position relative to the base member; a positioning means for positioning the detail member in a first position on the base member; a sensing means for automatically sensing the first position of the detail member; a comparing means for automatically comparing the sensed first position of the detail member with the predetermined position of the detail member to produce a comparison; and a generating means for automatically generating instructions, utilizing the comparison, for repositioning the detail member with said positioning means from the first position to a second position pursuant to the instructions in order to position the detail member at the predetermined position and to form the structure. 55. An apparatus for constructing a structure as claimed in claim 54 and further including a control means for causing: said sensing means to sense the second position of the detail member; said comparing means to automatically compare the sensed second position of the detail member with the predetermined position of the detail member to produce a second comparison; a determining means to determine from the second comparison whether the detail member is at the predetermined position; and if the detail member is not at the predetermined position, said generating means to automatically generate instructions, using the second comparison, for repositioning the detail member from the second position to a third position pursuant to the instructions. 56. An apparatus for constructing a structure as claimed in claim 54 and further including a sensing means for sensing positions of reference. 57. An apparatus for constructing a structure as claimed in claim 35 and further including at least one second detail member to be positioned relative to the base member, and wherein said control means also controls the positioning of the second detail member relative to said base member with said positioning means, said sensing means, said comparing means and said generating means. 58. An apparatus for constructing a structure as claimed in claim 54 wherein said comparing means includes a deriving means for deriving the predetermined position from a CAD data base of the structure. 59. An apparatus for constructing a structure as claimed in claim 54 wherein said generating means includes a displaying means for displaying movements required for repositioning the detail member to an operator. 60. An apparatus for constructing a structure as claimed in claim 57 wherein the at least one second detail member is a working means for working on the first-mentioned detail member after the first-mentioned detail member is positioned. 61. An apparatus for constructing a structure as claimed in claim 54 wherein said positioning means, said sensing means, said comparing means and said generating means operate in multiple degrees of freedom. 62. An apparatus for constructing a structure as claimed in claim 54 and further including an attaching means for attaching the detail member to the base member when the detail member is in the predetermined position. 