A method for adhesively bonding a first body to a second body, the first body comprising a non-metallic substrate, such as a piece of rubber, or comprising a non-metallic substrate and a filler therein, such as a piece of fiberglass reinforced plastic, the second body comprising any type of substrate, such as a piece of glass, plastic or metal. The first body is pretreated by placing it in the path of an energy beam, such as a laser beam, to form projections on the non-metallic substrate by evaporation of the non-metallic substrate of the first body, or to expose filler by evaporation of the non-metallic substrate of the first body. The second body can be untreated, pretreated as above or pretreated another way, such as by solvent washing or sandblasting. An adhesive is then coated on the pretreated area of the first body and the first body adhered to the second body. The cured adhesive interlocks with the projections and/or the exposed filler to produce a stronger bond. Similarly, an object, such as a rubber gasket, can be molded to a so-pretreated body so that the cured molding compound interlocks with the projections and/or the exposed filler to produce a stronger bond between the molded object and the so-pretreated body. The invention is also an article made by the method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for adhesively bonding a first body to a second body, the first body having a non-metallic substrate, the method comprising a step of pretreating an area of the first body; a step of applying an adhesive agent, the adhesive agent being applied to either the pretreated area of the first body, an area of the second body, or to both the pretreated area of the first body and an area of the second body; and then joining the pretreated area of the first body with the second body so that the adhesive agent is interposed between the pretreated area of the first body and the area of the second body, the improvement which comprises as the step of pretreating an area of the first body: placing the first body in the path of an energy beam having a selected energy density for a duration effective to form projections on the non-metallic substrate of the first body, the projections formed substantially by evaporation of the non-metallic substrate of the first body. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said energy beam is generated by a laser. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said first body comprises a synthetic polymer substrate. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the synthetic polymer substrate is a blend comprising polycarbonate resin and a polyester resin. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the first body comprises a natural polymer substrate. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein the first body comprises a ceramic substrate. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the ceramic substrate comprises glass. 8. A method for adhesively bonding a first body to a second body, the first body comprising a non-metallic substrate and a filler therein, the method comprising a step of pretreating an area of the first body; a step of applying an adhesive agent, the adhesive agent being applied to either the pretreated area of the first body, an area of the second body, or to both the pretreated area of the first body and an area of the second body; and then joining the pretreated area of the first body with the second body so that the adhesive agent is interposed between the pretreated area of the first body and the area of the second body, the improvement which comprises as the step of pretreating an area of the first body: placing the first body in the path of an energy beam having a selected energy density for a duration effective to expose the filler of the first body substantially by evaporation of the non-metallic substrate of the first body. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said energy beam is generated by a laser. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises a synthetic polymer substrate. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the synthetic polymer substrate is a blend comprising polycarbonate resin and a polyester resin. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises a natural polymer substrate. 13. The method of claim 9 wherein the first body comprises a ceramic substrate. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the ceramic substrate comprises a glass substrated. 15. A method for adhesively bonding a first body to a second body, the first body having a non-metallic substrate, the method comprising a step of pretreating an area of the first body and an area of the second body; a step of applying an adhesive agent, the adhesive agent being applied to either the pretreated area of the first body, the pretreated area of the second body, or to both the pretreated area of the first body and the pretreated area of the second body; and then joining the pretreated area of the first body with the pretreated area of the second body so that the adhesive agent is interposed between the pretreated area of the first body and the pretreated area of the second body, the improvement which comprises as the step of pretreating an area of the first body; placing the first body in the path of an energy beam having a selected energy density for a duration effective to form projections on the non-metallic substrate of the first body, the projections formed substantially by evaporation of the non-metallic substrate of the first body. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said energy beam is generated by a laser. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the first body comprises a synthetic polymer substrate. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the synthetic polymer substrate is a blend comprising polycarbonate resin and a polyester resin. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein the first body comprises a natural polymer substrate. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein the first body comprises a ceramic substrate. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the ceramic substrate comprises glass. 22. A method for adhesively bonding a first body to a second body, the first body comprising a non-metallic substrate and a filler therein, the method comprising a step of pretreating an area of the first body and an area of the second body; a step of applying an adhesive agent, the adhesive agent being applied to either the pretreated area of the first body, the pretreated area of the second body, or to both the pretreated area of the first body and the pretreated area of the second body; and then joining the pretreated area of the first body with the pretreated area of the second body so that the adhesive agent is interposed between the pretreated area of the first body and the pretreated area of the second body, the improvement which comprises as the step of pretreating an area of the first body: placing the first body in the path of an energy beam having a selected energy density for a duration effective to expose the filler of the first body substantially by evaporation of the non-metallic substrate of the first body. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein said energy beam is generated by laser. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the first body comprises a synthetic polymer substrate. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the synthetic polymer substrate is a blend comprising polycarbonate resin and a polyester resin. 26. The method of claim 23 wherein the first body comprises a natural polymer substrate. 27. The method of claim 23 wherein the first body comprises a ceramic substrate. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein the ceramic substrate comprises a glass substrate. 