A captured nut member is located within a tool interface assembly and being actuated by a spline screw member driven by a robot end effector. The nut member lowers and rises depending upon the directional rotation of the coupling assembly. The captured nut member further includes two winged segments which project outwardly in diametrically opposite directions so as to engage and disengage a clamping surface in the form of a chamfered notch respectively provided on the upper surface of a pair of parallel forwardly extending arm members of a bifurcated tool stowage holster which is adapted to hold and store a robotic tool including its end effector interface when not in use. A forward and backward motion of the robot end effector operates to insert and remove the tool from the holster.
Claims I claim: 1. Tool changer apparatus for a robotic system comprising: first interface means for attachment to a robotic arm; second interface means for attachment to a robotic too; stowage means for receiving and holding said second interface means including said tool when not in use; said first and second interface means further comprising respective mechanical coupling means for becoming mutually interlocked during use and also during movement to and from said stowage means and including means responsive to the operation of said coupling means for clamping to said stowage means following movement thereto and unclamping from said stowage means prior to movement therefrom; said mechanical coupling means comprises spline means driven by said robotic arm. 2. The tool changer apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first interface means comprises an end effector and wherein said mechanical coupling means thereof includes a male spline member. 3. The tool changer apparatus of claim 2 wherein said second interface means comprises a tool interface assembly and wherein said mechanical coupling means thereof includes a female spline member. 4. The tool changer apparatus of claim 3 wherein said female spline member includes a threaded shank and wherein said means for clamping comprises a captured nut constrained to translate up and down said threaded shank without rotating, said captured nut further including a portion thereof for contacting said stowage means. 5. The tool changer apparatus of claim 4 wherein said stowage means comprises a bifurcated holster including a pair of outwardly extending arm members engageable with said tool interface assembly. 6. The tool changer apparatus of claim 5 wherein said arm members each include a clamping notch for receiving said portion of said captured nut. 7. The tool changer apparatus of claim 6 wherein said portion of said captured nut comprises a pair of nut wing segments extending outwardly from a nut body located on said threaded shank. 8. The tool changer apparatus of claim 6 and wherein said tool interface assembly includes a round outer side wall and having a pair of holster guides formed therein adjacent said nut wing segments of said captured nut for engaging said arm members of said holster. 9. The tool changer apparatus of claim 8 wherein each arm member includes at least one wheel secured thereto for contact with a respective holster guide of said pair. 10. The tool changer apparatus of claim wherein each holster guide includes a pair of opposing wheel contact surfaces having a flared input end section for receiving a forward end of a respective arm member and an opposite end section of reduced size for acting as a stop for said arm member. 11. The tool changer apparatus of claim 8 and wherein each arm member includes wheeled holster guide contact members fore and aft of its respective clamping notch. 12. The tool changer apparatus of claim 7 and additionally including a second pair of outwardly extending wing segments on said nut body for holding electrical connector means which are translated upwards for connection to complementary electrical connector means in said end effector. 13. The tool changer apparatus of claim 12 wherein said second pair of wing segments are oriented transversely of the first recited pair of wing segments. 14. The tool changer apparatus of claim 13 wherein said tool interface assembly includes dust cover means on a surface facing said end effector for protecting said electrical connector means. 