A gripper pad or gripper tool changer for a multi-axis manipulator is provided which is capable of automatically attaching in locked position a selected pair of a plurality of gripper pads or tools to the fingers of a gripper. Each pair of gripper pads or tools are mounted in a holder mechanism which is attached to a surface within the work envelope of the manipulator. The pairs of gripper pads or tools are picked up from the holder and attached and locked to the gripper fingers by controlled movement of the manipulator. A pair of gripper pads or tools are returned to the holder by controlled maneuvering of the gripper into the holder such that unlocking means associated therewith provide unlocking of the gripper pads or tools from the gripper fingers so that the gripper pads or tools can be detached from the gripper fingers. Error detection of missing or displaced finger tools in a pickup operation is provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus for a multi-axis manipulator of the type having control means for effecting the change of the gripper finger tool on facing surfaces of the gripper comprising: a dovetail shaped rail attached to and located lengthwise along said facing surfaces of the gripper; each of said gripper finger tools having a complementary dovetail shaped opening formed lengthwise therein, said opening being of a size to prevent said dovetail shaped rail from moving in any direction except lengthwise when inserted therein; said control means associated with said manipulator providing movement of said gripper to cause said dovetail shaped rail to slide lengthwise into said dovetail shaped opening; locking means for locking said dovetail shaped rail in said dovetail shaped opening in said gripper finger tool; a tool holder located in the work space of said manipulator for holding said gripper finger tools when not attached to said gripper fingers and where said finger tools are picked up and deposited under control of said control means; unlocking means located on said tool holder for automatically unlocking said dovetail shaped rail from said finger tool so that said manipulator can remove said dovetail shaped rail from said dovetail shaped opening. 2. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said unlocking means on said tool holder includes at least a pair of blades spaced from one another so as to unlock said locking means holding said gripper finger tool on said gripper finger when said control means positions the gripper with respect to said blades and closes said fingers on said blades thereby effecting the unlocking. 3. Automatic tool changing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said pair of blades are chamfered at the outside edge of the outer end thereof to fit between said locking means and said gripper finger tool. 4. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said locking means includes a pair of locking spring tabs each having an inwardly facing locking member with a flat surface facing the top of the spring tab at the bottom end thereof, and a groove at right angles to the longitudinal dimension of said finger and adjacent the end of said gripper finger tool having said opening therein into which said locking member of said spring tab fits when said gripper finger tool is in place on said gripper finger. 5. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein a pair of grooves extend lengthwise, one on each side of said gripper finger tool, opposite one another providing a channel in which said locking member travels lengthwise along said gripper finger tool until it latches into said groove. 6. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said control means provides at least movement of said gripper carried by the end of the manipulator along two axis mutually perpendicular to one another to move said gripper in the one axis direction so as to cause said dovetail shaped rail of said gripper finger to slide into said dovetail shaped opening in said gripper finger tool until said rail is inserted far enough to have said locking means lock said gripper finger tool in place and to move said gripper in the other perpendicular axis direction to remove said gripper finger tool from said holder thereby actuating said locking means. 7. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said control means effects movement of said gripper so that each finger of said gripper is on opposite sides of said holder so that closing of said gripper fingers towards one another effects the unlocking of said locking means on each of said fingers simultaneously. 8. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said tool holder includes a wall, a plurality of stations for pick-up and drop-off of a pair of gripper finger tools, each station extending from opposite sides of said wall. 9. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein each of said stations on said tool holder includes two pairs of retention guides, one pair on opposite sides of said wall for guiding and holding both of said gripper finger tools of said gripper simultaneously. 10. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein said pairs of retention guides have the facing outer edges chamfered to provide improved positioning tolerance. 11. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein each station has at least three holes passing straight through and perpendicular to opposite sides of said wall and spaced from each other along a straight line running down the middle of said station lengthwise thereof. 12. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising detecting means including a light beam directed from one finger to the other perpendicular to said facing surfaces; said dovetail shaped rail and each of said gripper finger tools having an opening therethrough at the same location as said light beam to allow passage of said light beam therethrough when said gripper finger tools are located in locked position on said dovetail shaped rails; said at least three holes passing through said holder wall each providing a completed path for said light beam when the hole in said dovetail shaped rail and the hole in said gripper finger tool align therewith to provide a means of detecting the order in which said at least three holes were sensed. 13. Automatic gripper finger tool changing apparatus according to claim 12, further comprising force sensing means on each of said gripper fingers, said control means providing control for energizing said force sensing means in conjunction with said detecting means to determine the presence of both gripper finger tools in said holder and one gripper finger tool missing from said holder. 