An electronic circuit adapted to receive conditioned force signals from a three-axes load cell mounted on the arm of a robot and provide a stop signal for use by a controller of the robot. The circuit compares the sum of the absolute value of the forces with a variable reference signal. A force trip relay and a masking relay are connected in parallel to provide the stop signal when both the resulting sum is greater in value than the reference signal and the robot is in an operating condition in which high forces do not normally occur.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electronic circuit adapted to receive conditioned input signals from a 3-axis load cell mounted on the arm of a robot, the circuit providing a stop signal for use by a controller of the robot to prevent an overload condition, the circuit comprising: computing means for computing the absolute value of each of the input signals; adding means for adding the absolute values to obtain a resulting value; comparing means for comparing the resulting value with a threshold value to obtain a trigger signal when the resulting value exceeds the threshold value; and means responsive to said trigger signal to provide the stop signal. 2. The circuit as claimed in claim 1 further including generating means coupled to said comparing means for generating a variable threshold signal representing a variable overload condition. 3. The circuit as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein said means responsive to said trigger signal includes masking means responsive to the controller for suppressing said trigger signal to prevent said stop signal. 4. The circuit as claimed in claim 3 wherein said computing means comprises three absolute value circuits, each of said absolute value circuits producing an output equal to the magnitude of its input. 5. The circuit as claimed in claim 4 wherein said adding means comprises a summing circuit. 6. The circuit as claimed in claim 5 wherein said comparing means includes a comparator. 7. The circuit as claimed in claim 3 wherein said masking means comprises a first device for controlling the issuance of said stop signal. 8. The circuit as claimed in claim 7 including a second device coupled in parallel to said first device and receiving said trigger signal. 