A method for directing a vehicle to operate in a noise generating mode based on a context is provided. A present location of the vehicle is determined using a location sensing device. Then, it is determined whether the present location of the vehicle is within one or more noise generating zones. In response to determining that the present location of the vehicle is within a noise generating zone, the vehicle is directed to operate in the noise generating mode.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer implemented method in a noise management system for directing a vehicle to operate in a noise generating mode based on a context, the computer implemented method comprising: determining by a processor device, using a location sensing device communicatively coupled to the processor device, a present location of the vehicle; determining by the processor device whether the present location of the vehicle is within one or more noise generating zones; and responsive to a determination by the processor device that the present location of the vehicle is within a noise generating zone, directing the vehicle to operate in the noise generating mode. 2. The computer implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: responsive to a determination by the processor device that the present location of the vehicle is not within a noise generating zone, directing the vehicle to operate in a normal operating mode. 3. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the context is surrounding circumstances that form an environment within which the vehicle is placed in the noise generating mode of operation to alert an individual in the noise generating zone of a presence of the vehicle. 4. The computer implemented method of claim 3, wherein the individual is one of a person, an animal, or a machine. 5. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the noise generating zone is one of a plurality of specific noise generating zones in an area, and wherein each noise generating zone in the plurality of specific noise generating zones has a different associated noise generated by the vehicle. 6. The computer implemented method of claim 5, wherein the plurality of specific noise generating zones includes a plurality of classes of noise generating zones each having a corresponding different minimum noise level threshold value. 7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the context is identified by a context recognition map that includes the one or more noise generating zones, and wherein the context recognition map is a geographic map of the area that includes vehicular pathways. 8. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the vehicle is a hybrid powered vehicle, and wherein noise generated by the hybrid powered vehicle in the noise generating zone is a running combustion engine. 9. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the vehicle is an all electric powered vehicle, and wherein noise generated by the all electric powered vehicle in the noise generating zone is a synthetically generated sound. 10. The computer implemented method of claim 9, wherein the sound is one or more of a voice message, a combustion engine, and a horn. 11. A vehicle comprising: a noise management system; a sensor system for collecting data regarding an operating environment for the vehicle; and a processor device communicatively coupled to the noise management system and the sensor system; wherein the processor device determines a present location of the vehicle using a location sensing device located in the sensor system; determines whether the present location of the vehicle is within one or more noise generating zones; and directs the vehicle to operate in a noise generating mode in response to a determination that the present location of the vehicle is within a noise generating zone. 12. The vehicle of claim 11, wherein the processor device directs the vehicle to operate in a normal operating mode in response to a determination that the present location of the vehicle is not within a noise generating zone. 13. The vehicle of claim 11, wherein a context is surrounding circumstances that form an environment within which the vehicle is placed in the noise generating mode of operation to alert an individual in the noise generating zone of a presence of the vehicle. 14. The vehicle of claim 13, wherein the individual is one of a person, an animal, or a machine. 15. The vehicle of claim 11, wherein the noise generating zone is one of a plurality of specific noise generating zones in an area, and wherein each noise generating zone in the plurality of specific noise generating zones has a different associated noise generated by the vehicle. 16. The vehicle of claim 15, wherein the plurality of specific noise generating zones includes a plurality of classes of noise generating zones each having a corresponding different minimum noise level threshold value. 17. The vehicle of claim 11, wherein the context is identified by a context recognition map that includes the one or more noise generating zones, and wherein the context recognition map is a geographic map of the area that includes vehicular pathways. 18. The vehicle of claim 11, wherein the vehicle is a hybrid vehicle, and wherein noise generated by the hybrid powered vehicle in the noise generating zone is a running combustion engine. 19. The vehicle of claim 11, wherein the vehicle is an all electric powered vehicle, and wherein noise generated by the all electric powered vehicle in the noise generating zone is a synthetically generated sound. 20. The vehicle of claim 19, wherein the sound is one or more of a voice message, a combustion engine, and a horn. 21. A computer implemented method in a noise management system for generating a noise by a vehicle, the computer implemented method comprising: detecting by a sensor device communicatively coupled to the noise management system an individual in an operating environment of the vehicle; determining by a processor device communicatively coupled communicatively coupled to the noise management system a mode of operation of the vehicle and a proximity of the individual to the vehicle using the sensor device; selecting by the processor device a noise to generate from a plurality of different noises based on the mode of operation of the vehicle and the proximity of the individual to the vehicle; and responsive to selecting the noise to generate, generating the selected noise above a minimum threshold level to alert the individual of the mode of operation of the vehicle and the proximity of the individual to the vehicle. 22. The computer implemented method of claim 21 further comprising: determining by the processor device whether the proximity of the individual to the vehicle or the mode of operation of the vehicle has changed; and responsive to determining that the proximity of the individual to the vehicle or the mode of operation of the vehicle has changed, selecting by the processor device another noise to generate from the plurality of different noises. 23. The computer implemented method of claim 22 further comprising: responsive to determining that the proximity of the individual to the vehicle or the mode of operation of the vehicle has changed, modifying by the processor device a frequency of a number of times the selected noise is generated per unit time. 24. The computer implemented method of claim 22 further comprising: responsive to determining that the proximity of the individual to the vehicle or the mode of operation of the vehicle has changed, modifying by the processor device an intensity of the selected noise generated. 25. The computer implemented method of claim 21, wherein the mode of operation is the vehicle's intent to perform a particular task in the operating environment. 26. The computer implemented method of claim 21, wherein the sensor device detects a context identifier worn by the individual, and wherein the context identifier is a radio frequency identification tag that identifies the individual and a location of the individual in the operating environment of the vehicle. 27. The computer implemented method of claim 21, wherein the sensor device detects a body temperature of the individual to identify the individual and a location of the individual in the operating environment of the vehicle. 28. The computer implemented method of claim 21, wherein the operating environment is a structured work-site where only authorized workers are present. 29. The computer implemented method of claim 21, wherein the vehicle is one of an autonomous vehicle or a semi-autonomous vehicle used to perform tasks in the operating environment. 30. A computer implemented method in a noise management system for directing a vehicle to operate in a noise generating mode based on received signal data, the computer implemented method comprising: receiving by a communications device communicatively coupled to the noise management system a signal that includes data when entering a noise generating zone in an area; and responsive to receiving the signal, operating by a processor device communicatively coupled to the noise management system the vehicle in a noise generating mode in the noise generating zone in accordance with the data included in the signal. 31. The computer implemented method of claim 30, wherein the data included in the signal includes at least one of a particular noise to generate by the vehicle in the noise generating zone, boundaries of the noise generating zone, and a vehicular speed limit within the noise generating zone. 32. The computer implemented method of claim 30, wherein the signal that includes the data is transmitted by a transmitter located at the beginning of the noise generating zone. 33. The computer implemented method of claim 32, wherein the transmitter includes a motion sensing device to detect an oncoming vehicle, and wherein the transmitter transmits the signal only when the oncoming vehicle is detected by the motion sensing device. 34. The computer implemented method of claim 31, wherein when individuals are identified as not being present in the noise generating zone via a sensor system the particular noise is not generated by the vehicle. 