A method and apparatus for provided for sensing the location of a surface of an object in the presence of localized surface contamination, roughness or other minor irregularities. A light image of pattern is imaged onto a photodetector corresponding to each of a plurality of points or zones on the surface of an object illuminated with light so that the photodetector produces an electrical output signal related to the relative location of the individual points or zones. Values represented by the electrical signals are then averaged and the results used in determining the location of the surface. Values falling outside of a preselected threshold or thresholds can be discarded in evaluating the results, in lieu of, or prior to, averaging.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for sensing the location of a surface of an object in the presence of localized surface contamination, roughness or other minor irregularities, said method comprising: providing imaging of a light image or pattern on a photodetector corresponding to a point or zone on the surface of an object illuminated with light so that said photodetector produces an electrical output signal related to the relative location of the point or zone; carrying out the foregoing step with respect to a plurality of points or zones on the surface of the object sequentially in time so as to generate a plurality of corresponding electrical signals; averaging values represented by the electrical signals produced by said photodetector corresponding to said plurality of points or zones on the surface so as to substantially eliminate errors related to local contamination, roughness or other minor irregularities; and determining the location of the surface of the object using the averaged values. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1 including the step of projecting the light image or pattern through cylindrical optics. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the cylindrical optics includes a cylinder lens and said cylinder lens is located in close proximity to the photodetector. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein carrying out of said step with respect to a plurality of points or zones includes the step of moving the surface relative to the photodetector. 5. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein carrying out of said step with respect to a plurality of points or zones includes scanning the image or pattern representing the location of the object. 6. A metod as claimed in claim 5 wherein the scanning is accomplished using a two dimensional scanning photodetector. 7. A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein the scanning is accomplished by moving the image or pattern of the object. 8. A method as claimed in claim 1 including sensing protrusions on said surface at points along the surface and ignoring the values represented by the electrical signals corresponding to these protrusions in averaging the values representing the electrical signals. 9. A method as claimed in claim 8 wherein only signals representative of values greater a preset limit related to the average values of said signals are ignored. 10. A method as claimed in claims 4 or 6 wherein the surface is a portion of an outer surface of a cylindrical object, and carrying out of said step with respect to a plurality of points or zones comprises rotating of the cylindrical object about the longitudinal axis of the cylindrical object so as to provide a plurality of electrical signals related to the locations of a plurality of points or zones on the surface of the object. 11. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the surface of the object is rotated and electrical signals are provided for zones covering at least 5.degree. of the surface of the object. 12. A method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising ignoring electrical signals having values above a preset limit or values below a preset limit. 13. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said averaging step includes averaging the values of all of said signals, ignoring values above or below a preset limit relative to the average value of all of said signals and re-averaging the values of the remaining signals. 14. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein imaging of a light image or pattern on said photodetector includes a step of transmitting the image or pattern to the photodetector using a coherent fiber optic device. 15. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said averaging step includes averaging only the values of electrical signals having substantially the same magnitude. 16. A method as claimed in claim 1 and further including sensing light scatter or another characteristic of surface contamination during the imaging a said light image or pattern on said photodetector, and ignoring any optical images or patterns when surface contamination is sensed. 17. A method for improving the sensing resolution with respect to the position of an edge of an object using a photodetector array which is serially scanned, said method comprising the steps of: illuminating an edge of the object; forming an image or pattern on the photodetector array corresponding to a plurality of substantially adjacent portions of the edge of the object; and averaging the output signals produced by said photodetector array corresponding to said images or patterns formed thereon and using the resultant average to obtain an average position for the object edge whose resolution is increased beyond that obtainable with the array by itself during a single scan. 18. A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein the photodetector array is a matrix array and further including the step of scanning the lines of the matrix array sequentially during the scanning step. 19. A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein said photodetector array is a linear array and wherein forming further images or patterns on the photodetector array at a plurality of substantially adjacent locations is performed by moving the object. 20. A method as claimed in claim 17 and further including the step of skewing the axis of the photodetector array relative to the image or pattern of the edge of the object. 21. A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein the number of the detector array element whose output signal crosses a voltage threshold value corresponding to the object edge location is stored. 22. A method as claimed in claim 17 wherein the forming of the image or pattern includes a step of transmitting the image or pattern to the photodetector array by a fiber optic device. 23. A method for electro-optically inspecting objects which have surface contamination, said method comprising the steps of: initially cleaning the object to remove the contamination from the object surface; sensing the surface electro-optically at a plurality of points to produce corresponding output data; averaging the output data for said plurality of points to substantially eliminate the effects of any residual contamination; and utilizing the averaged data in inspection of the object. 24. A method as claimed in claim 23 wherein data which is indicative of residual surface contamination or surface irregularity is ignored in carrying out the averaging step. 25. A method as claimed in claim 24 wherein contamination on the object surface is sensed using a further sensor. 26. A method as claimed in claim 23 wherein the cleaning step includes the moving of air over the surface of the object. 27. A method as claimed in claim 23 wherein said cleaning step includes the brushing of the surface of the object. 28. A method as claimed in claim 27 wherein the brushing step also moves the object. 29. An apparatus for electro-optically determining the position of a surface of an object in the presence of localized surface contamination, roughness, or other minor irregularities, said apparatus comprising: a light source for illuminating the surface of the object; a photodetector means for detecting a light image or pattern for a plurality of points on the surface of the object illuminated by light from said light source and for producing a plurality of output signals in accordance therewith; means for averaging values represented by said electrical signals to substantially eliminate errors due to localized contamination and other irregularities; and means connected to said averaging means for using the results produced by the averaging means to determine the position of the surface. 30. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein said photodetector means includes a wide diode array and a low magnification lens means for imaging the plurality of points on the surface onto the photodetector means. 31. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein said photodetector means includes a narrow diode array and cylinder lens optic means for imaging the plurality of points on the surface onto the photodetector means. 32. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein said photodetector means includes a linear diode array and a scanning mirror means. 33. Apparatus as claimed in claim 32 wherein said photodetector means also includes a cylinder lens. 34. Apparatus as claimed in claims 29, 30, 31 or 32 further comprising means for moving said object and said photodetector means relative to the other such that the plurality of points on the surface are detected by the photodetector means. 35. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein said light source comprises a long and diffuse light source. 36. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein said light source comprises a quasi-parallel light source. 37. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein said light source comprises a pulsed light source. 38. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 and further including a sensor means for sensing light scattered from irregularities on the surface at the plurality of points and means for terminating the operation of said averaging means when said sensor means senses an irregularity. 39. Apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein a dimension is determined corresponding to the distance between said surface and a further surface; and wherein said apparatus includes a second photodetector means, mounted in spaced relation with respect to the first mentioned photodetector means, for detecting a light image or pattern for a plurality of points on said further surface and for producing a plurality of output signals in accordance therewith; and said averaging means includes means for averaging values represented by said electrical signals produced by said second photodetector means for said plurality of points on said further surface to substantially eliminate errors due to localized contamination and other irregularities. 40. Apparatus as claimed in claim 39 and further including means for adjusting the spacing between the first mentioned photodetector means and said second photodetector means. 41. A sensing apparatus as claimed in claim 39 and further including means for optically shifting the viewing axes of the first mentioned photodetector means and said second photodetector means. 42. A sensing apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein said photodetector means includes a remotely located photodetector and a fiber optic means for transmitting the image or pattern from the object to said photodetector. 43. A sensing apparatus as claimed in claim 29 wherein said photodetector means includes a spherical achromatic lens having the top and bottom portions thereof cut off. 44. A method for sensing the location of a surface of an object in the presence of localized surface contamination, roughness or other minor irregularities, said method comprising: providing imaging of a light image or pattern on a photodetector corresponding to a point or zone on the surface of the object illuminated with light such that the photodetector produces an electrical output signal related to the relative location of said point or zone; carrying out the foregoing step with respect to a plurality of points or zones on the surface of the object to generate a plurality of electrical signals; comparing values represented by said electrical signals with a predetermined threshold; eliminating substantially all of the electrical signals having values falling outside of the predetermined threshold; and determining the location of the surface of the object based on the values represented by the electrical signals remaining after the electrical signals having values falling outside of said predetermined threshold are eliminated. 45. A method as claimed in claim 44 wherein the values represented by said electrical signals are averaged prior to said eliminating step and said predetermined threshold is determined relative to the average of said electrical signals. 46. A method as claimed in claim 44 wherein the values represented by said electrical signals are averaged after said elimination step and the average value is then used in determining the location of the surface of the object. 47. A method as claimed in claim 44 wherein values represented by electrical signals greater than a predetermined threshold are eliminated. 48. A method as claimed in claim 44 wherein values represented by the electrical signals which are greater than a predetermined threshold or less than a further predetermined threshold are eliminated. 49. A method for determining the location of a surface of an object in the presence of localized surface contamination, roughness or other minor irregularities, said method comprising: providing imaging of a light image or pattern on a photodetector indicative of the location of a point or zone on the surface of an object illuminated from a light source; carrying out the foregoing step with respect to a plurality of points or zones on the surface of the object; providing integration of the output produced by the photodetector for the plurality of points or zones to provide averaging of said output with respect to time so as to substantially eliminate errors related to local contamination or other irregularities; and using the integrated output produced by the photodetector in determining the location of the surface of the object. 50. A method as claimed in claim 49 wherein relative movement is provided between the light source and the surface of the object to provide scanning of the surface and imaging of a plurality of points or zones on said photodetector. 51. A method as claimed in claim 49 wherein said photodetector comprises a scanning photodetector array and the output produced by said photodetector array is integrated by scanning the array at a slow scan rate which provides integration of the outputs of the individual photodetectors making up the array. 52. A method as claimed in claim 49 wherein said photodetector comprises a scanning photodetector array and wherein cyclic relative movement is provided between the light source and the surface of the object, said integration of the output of the photodetector being provided by integrating the light energy detected by said array over a predetemined interval of the relative movement between the light source and the object. 53. A method as claimed in claim 49 wherein said photodetector comprises a scanning photodetector array and the scanning rate of said photodetector array is chosen so that a plurality of points or zones on the array are represented by each scan of the array. 54. A method for sensing the location of a surface of an object, said surface having present thereon localized surface contamination or the like, and said method comprising: illuminating the surface over a zone of a predetermined length; detecting a light image or pattern corresponding to said length, using a photodetector to produce an output in a manner so as to provide averaging of light energy received simultaneously from a plurality of points along said length to thereby substantially eliminate errors due to the localized surface contamination; and utilizing the output of said photodetector in determining the location of the surface of the object. 55. A method as claimed in claim 54 wherein a cylinder lens is used to focus light from said zone onto said photodetector and the width of said photodetector is relatively narrow. 56. A method as claimed in claim 54 wherein a photodetector of large width is used to detect the light energy from said zone and the magnification provided of the light is relatively low. 57. A method for sensing the location of a surface of an object in the presence of localized surface contamination, roughness or minor irregularities, said method comprising: providing imaging of a light image or pattern on an electro-optical sensor corresponding to a point or zone on the surface of an object illuminated with light so that said electro-optical sensor produces an electrical output signal related to the relative location of the point or zone; sensing light scatter or another optical characteristic of surface contamination occuring during imaging of said light image or pattern onto said electro-optical sensor and ignoring substantially all of the optical images or patterns corresponding to a said characteristic of surface contamination; and determining the location of the surface of the object based on the electrical signals produced by said electro-optical sensor exclusive of those corresponding to a said characteristic of surface contamination. 58. An apparatus for sensing the location of a surface of an object in the presence of localized surface contamination, roughness or other minor irregularities, said method comprising: an electro-optical sensor; means for providing imaging of a light image or pattern on said electro-optical sensor corresponding to a point or zone on the surface of an object illuminated with light so that said electro-optical sensor produces an electrical output signal related to the relative location of the point or zone; means for sensing light scatter or another optical characteristic of surface contamination occuring during imaging of said light image or pattern onto said electro-optical sensor and for eliminating substantially all of the optical images or patterns corresponding to a said characteristic of surface contamination; and means for determining the location of the surface of the object based on said electrical signals produced by said electro-optical sensor exclusive of those electrical signals corresponding to a said characteristic of surface contamination. 59. A method for sensing the location of a surface of an object in the presence of localized surface contamination, roughness or ther minor irregularities, said method comprising: providing imaging of a light image or pattern on an electro-optical sensor corresponding to a point or zone on the surface of an object illuminated with light so that said electro-optical sensor produces an electrical output signal related to the relative location of the point or zone; sensing any protrusions on said surface at points along said surface and ignoring substantially all signals corresponding to any protrusions sensed on the surface; and determining the location of said surface of said object using said electrical signals produced by said electro-optical signal exclusive of those signals corresponding to protrusions on said surface. 60. A methed as claimed in claim 59 wherein said protrusions are sensed by comparing the electrical signals produced by said electro-optical sensor with a predetermined threshold and wherein substantially all signals greater than said predetermined threshold are ignored. 61. An apparatus for sensing the location of a surface of an object in the presence of localized surface contamination, roughness or other minor irregularities, said apparatus comprising: an electro-optical sensor for producing an electrical output signal in accordance with the light sensed thereby; means for providing imaging of a light image or pattern on said electro-optical sensor corresponding to a point or zone on the surface illuminated with light so that said electro-optical sensor produces an electrical output signal related to the relative location of the point or zone; means for sensing any protrusions on said surface at points along said surface and for eliminating substantially all of said electrical signals corresponding to any protrusions sensed on the surface; and determining the location of said surface of the object using electrical signals produced by said electro-optical sensor exclusive of those signals which correspond to any protrusions sensed on the surface. 62. An apparatus as claimed in claim 61 wherein said sensing means comprises comparing means for comparing the electrical signals produced by said electro-optical sensor with a predetermined threshold and for eliminating substantially all signals greater than said threshold. 