A piston-operated robotic gripper system has gripper means including a piston mounted within a cylinder for movement between a first position and a second position, with the piston operatively linked to move grasping means between a first retracted position and a second extended position corresponding to the first and second piston positions, respectively. Conduit means are connected to first and second sides of the piston to introduce pressurized fluid into the cylinder on the first side of the piston to cause the piston and grasping means to move to their first positions and to introduce pressurized fluid into the cylinder on the second side of the piston while exhausting the fluid from the cylinder on the first side of the piston to cause the piston and grasping means to move to their second positions. Valve means located in conduit means connected to the second side of the piston stops the exhausting of fluid from the cylinder on the first side of the piston, so that the remaining fluid on that side will increase in pressure until the force acting on the first side of the piston equals the force acting on the second side of the piston, thereby causing the piston and the grasping means to be held at positions intermediate to their first and second positions.
Claims We claim: 1. In a piston-operated robotic gripper system having a piston mounted within a cylinder for movement between a first position and a second position, with the piston operatively linked to move grasping means between a first retracted position and a second extended position corresponding to the first and second piston positions, respectively, movement of the piston being achieved by introducing pressurized fluid through a conduit into the cylinder on a first side of the piston to cause the piston and grasping means to move to their first positions and introducing pressurized fluid through a conduit into the cylinder on a second side of the piston while exhausting the fluid from the cylinder on the first side of the piston to cause the piston and grasping means to move to their second positions; a method of selectively limiting the extended position of the grasping means, comprising: stopping the exhausting of fluid from the cylinder on the first side of the piston, so that the remaining fluid on that side will increase in pressure until the force acting on the first side of the piston equals the force acting on the second side of the piston and the piston and grasping means are held at positions intermediate to their first and second positions. 2. The method, as defined in claim 1, wherein the method of stopping the flow of fluid comprises closing a valve in the conduit connected to the cylinder on the first side of the piston. 3. The method, as defined in claim 1, wherein the pressurized fluid is a liquid. 4. The method, as defined in claim 1, wherein the pressurized fluid is a gas. 5. The method, as defined in claim 2, wherein the valve is closed at some point after the piston has started to move to its second position. 6. A piston-operated robotic gripper system, comprising: (a) a piston mounted within a cylinder for movement between a first position and a second position; (b) grasping means operatively linked to the piston to move between a first retracted position and a second extended position corresponding to the first and second piston positions, respectively; (c) means to introduce pressurized fluid into the cylinder on a first side of the piston to cause the piston and grasping means to move to their first positions and to introduce pressurized fluid into the cylinder on a second side of the piston while exhausting the fluid from the cylinder on the first side of the piston to cause the piston and grasping means to move to their second positions; and (d) means to stop the exhausting of fluid from the cylinder on the first side of the piston, so that the remaining fluid on that side will increase in pressure until the force acting on the first side of the piston equals the force acting on the second side of the piston, thereby causing the piston and the grasping means to be held at selected positions intermediate to their first and second positions. 7. A piston-operated gripper system, as defined in claim 6, wherein means to stop the exhausting of fluid is a valve. 8. A piston-operated gripper system, as defined in claim 6, wherein the system is adapted to utilize a liquid as the pressurized fluid. 9. A piston-operated gripper system, as defined in claim 6, wherein the system is adapted to utilize a gas as the pressurized fluid. 10. A piston-operated robotic gripper system, comprising: (a) gripper means including a piston mounted within a cylinder for movement between a first position and a second position, with the piston operatively linked to move grasping means between a first retracted position and a second extended position corresponding to the first and second piston positions, respectively: (b) conduit means connected to first and second sides of the piston to introduce pressurized fluid into the cylinder on the first side of the piston to cause the piston and grasping means to move to their first positions and to introduce pressurized fluid into the cylinder on the second side of the piston while exhausting the fluid from the cylinder on the first side of the piston to cause the piston and grasping means to move to their second positions; and (c) valve means located in the conduit means connected to the second side of the piston to stop the exhausting of fluid from the cylinder on the first side of the piston, so that the remaining fluid on that side will increase in pressure until the force on the first side of the piston equals the force on the second side of the piston and thereby cause the piston and grasping means to be held at positions intermediate to their first and second positions. 11. A piston-operated robotic gripper system, as defined in claim 10, wherein the valve means is mounted directly to the gripper means so that the fluid on the first side of the piston communicates directly with the valve means. 12. A piston-operated robotic gripper system, as defined in claim 10, wherein the valve means is a solenoid valve. 13. A piston-operated robotic gripper system, as defined in claim 10, wherein the system is adapted to be operated with compressed air as the pressurized fluid. 14. A piston-operated robotic gripper system, as defined in claim 10, wherein the system is adapted to be operated with a liquid as the pressurized fluid. 