A system for determining range, particularly for robotic applications, is disclosed. The system preferably includes a single camera and at least two light sources. The lights can be turned on and off independently and are located at different distances from the target object. To determine the range, the intensity of each pixel is recorded with the front light on, then the intensity is recorded with the rear light on. The ratio of these two intensities is a unique function of range, regardless of the reflectivity of the object. If there is ambient light illuminating the object, its value must be subtracted from the intensity measurements prior to calculating the ratio.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for the detrmination of range information comprising: carrier means; illumination intensity measuring means mounted on said carrier means; a first light source mounted on said carrier means at a known distance from said illumination intensity measuring means, wherein said first light source is capable of controlled activation and inactivation; a second light source mounted on said carrier means displaced by a predetermined baseline distance from said first light source and said illumination intensity measuring means substantially on a line along the center axis of said illumination intensity measuring means, wherein said second light source is capable of controlled activation and inactivation; and a microprocessor capable of controlling the activation and inactivation of said first and second light sources, collecting data from said illumination intensity measuring means, and manipulating said data to obtain the approximate distance between said carrier means and obstacles in the path of said carrier means. 2. An apparatus of claim 1 capable of determination of three-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a video camera. 3. An apparatus of claim 2, wherein said first and second light sources are lasers. 4. An apparatus of claim 3, wherein said video camera is equipped with a filter which passes only the wavelength of light emitted by the lasers. 5. An apparatus of claim 1, wherein said apparatus operates in the infrared spectrum. 6. An apparatus of claim 2, wherein said microprocessor controls the iris of the camera. 7. An apparatus of claim 2, wherein said microprocessor controls the electronic gain of the video signal. 8. An apparatus of claim 1 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a single photodiode. 9. An apparatus of claim 1 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a single photoresistor. 10. An apparatus of claim 1 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a phototransistor. 11. An apparatus of claim 8, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 12. An apparatus of claim 9, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 13. An apparatus of claim 10, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 14. An apparatus for the determination of range information comprising: carrier means; illumination intensity measuring means mounted on said carrier means; supporting means located posterior to said carrier means; a first light source mounted on said supporting means, wherein said first light source is capable of controlled activation and inactivation; a second light source mounted on said supporting means at a predetermined baseline distance from said first light source substantially along the center axis of said illumination intensity measuring means, wherein said second light source is capable of controlled activation and inactivation; and a microprocessor capable of controlling the activation and inactivation of said first and second light sources, collecting data from said illumination intensity measuring means, and manipulating said data to obtain the approximate distance between said carrier means and obstacles in the path of said carrier means. 15. An apparatus of claim 14 capable of determination of three-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a video camera. 16. An apparatus of claim 15, wherein said first and second light sources are lasers. 17. An apparatus of claim 14 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a single photodiode. 18. An apparatus of claim 14 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a single photoresistor. 19. An apparatus of claim 14 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a phototransistor. 20. An apparatus of claim 17, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 21. An apparatus of claim 18, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 22. An apparatus of claim 19, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 23. An apparatus for the determination of range information comprising: carrier means; supporting means located posterior to said carrier means; illumination intensity measuring means mounted on said supporting means; a first light source mounted on said supporting means, wherein said first light source is capable of controlled activation and inactivation; a second light source mounted on said supporting means at a predetermined baseline distance from said first light source substantially along the center axis of said illumination intensity measuring means, wherein said second light source is capable of controlled activation and inactivation; and a microprocessor capable of controlling the activation and inactivation of said first and second light sources, collecting data from said illumination intensity measuring means, and manipulating said data to obtain the approximate distance between said carrier means and obstacles in the path of said carrier means. 24. An apparatus of claim 23 capable of determination of three-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a video camera. 25. An apparatus of claim 24, wherein said first and second light sources are lasers. 26. An apparatus of claim 23 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a single photodiode. 27. An apparatus of claim 23 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a single photoresistor. 28. An apparatus of claim 23 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a phototransistor. 29. An apparatus of claim 26, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 30. An apparatus of claim 27, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 31. An apparatus of claim 28, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 32. An apparatus for the determination of range information comprising: carrier means; supporting means located posterior to said carrier means; illumination intensity measuring means mounted on said supporting means; a first light source mounted on said carrier means, wherein said first light source is capable of controlled activation and inactivation; a second light source mounted on said carrier means at a predetermined baseline distance from said first light source substantially along the center axis of said illumination intensity measuring means, wherein said second light source is capable of controlled activation and inactivation; and a microprocessor capable of controlling the activation and inactivation of said first and second light sources, collecting data from said illumination intensity measuring means, and manipulating said data to obtain the approximate distance between said carrier means and obstacles in the path of said carrier means. 33. An apparatus of claim 33 capable of determination of three-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a video camera. 34. An apparatus of claim 34, wherein said first and second light sources are lasers. 35. An apparatus of claim 33 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a single photodiode. 36. An apparatus of claim 33 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a single photoresistor. 37. An apparatus of claim 33 capable of determination of one-dimensional range information, wherein said illumination intensity measuring device is a phototransistor. 38. An apparatus of claim 36, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 39. An apparatus of claim 37, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 40. An apparatus of claim 38, wherein said first and second light sources are light emitting diodes. 41. A method of determining range information to an object comprising: controlling first and second light sources, said first light source being located anteriorly of said second light source with respect to the object, and said first and second light sources being activated and deactivated independently of each other; measuring illumination intensity of the object under differing illumination conditions with a single illumination intensity measuring means; and manipulating the illumination intensity measurements to obtain an approximate range value, said approximate range value being a function of the ratio of said illumination intensity measurement taken when said first light source is activated to said illumination intensity measurement taken when said second light source is activated. 42. A method of claim 42, wherein said illumination intensity is measured under three distinct illumination conditions. 43. A method of claim 43, wherein the illumination intensity is measured with both the first and second light sources inactivated, with the first light source activated and the second light source inactivated and with the second light source activated and the first light source inactivated. 