Electronic speech control apparatus that includes a circuit for establishing and changing over time a subject code and an utterance index. The subject code generally indicates one of a plurality of sets of utterances. The utterance index identifies an utterance of at least one word in the set indicated by the subject code. Combined with the circuit is another circuit responsive thereto for generating the utterance identified by the utterance index in the set indicated by the subject code. The apparatus also repeatedly computes an emotion and generates an utterance representing the emotion so computed. The various utterances are made in an alternating conversational fashion in response to a person's speech. These and other aspects of apparatus and method are described in greater detail herein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Electronic speech control apparatus comprising means for establishing and changing over time a subject code and an utterance index, the subject code generally indicating one of a plurality of sets of utterances and the utterance index identifying an utterance of at least one word in the set indicated by the subject code; and means responsive to the establishing and changing means for generating the utterance identified by the utterance index in the set indicated by the subject code, said establishing and changing means also comprising means for changing the utterance index when each utterance is generated and for subsequently changing the subject code at random automatically. 2. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind wherein the first-named apparatus further comprises means for broadcasting the established subject code thereto. 3. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus establishing a subject code, wherein the first-named apparatus further comprises means for sensing the subject code established in the additional apparatus. 4. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 3 wherein said establishing and changing means in the first-named apparatus also comprises means connected to the sensing means for changing the subject code in the first-named apparatus in response to the sensed subject code. 5. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means responsive to the establishing and changing means for executing a visible motion corresponding to the utterance identified by the utterance index in the set indicated by the subject code. 6. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for changing the utterance index when each utterance is generated to progress through the set of utterances indicated by the subject code. 7. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for changing the utterance index when each utterance is generated until the set of utterances indicated by the subject code has been completed and for subsequently changing the subject code at random automatically. 8. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for changing the subject code as a function of the loudness. 9. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and wherein said establishing and changing, means also comprises means for, computing an electrical representation of a simulated emotion repeatedly as a function of the loudness. 10. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for varying an electrical level and wherein said establishing and changing means is connected to the varying means and also comprises means for changing the subject code as a function of the electrical level. 11. Electric speech control apparatus comprising means for establishing and automatically changing over time a subject code and an utterance index, the subject code generally indicating one of a plurality of sets of utterances and the utterance index identifying an utterance of at least one word in the set indicated by the subject code; means responsive to the establishing and changing means for generating the utterance identified by the utterance index in the set indicated by the subject code; and means for varying an electrical level and wherein said establishing and changing means is also connected to the varying means and also comprises means for repeatedly computing an electrical representation of a simulated emotion as a function of the electrical level. 12. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 11 wherein said generating means also comprises means for producing an additional utterance representing the simulated emotion so computed. 13. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means connected to said sensing means for causing the generating means to delay generating the utterance until after the loudness has fallen below a predetermined level. 14. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means connected to said sensing means for causing the generating means to generate an utterance indicative of insufficient loudness if the loudness does not exceed a predetermined level within a time period. 15. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means connected to the sensing means for establishing randomly a time period and, if the utterance index has an initial value, for causing the generating means to generate an utterance after the time period when the loudness does not exceed a predetermined level within the time period. 16. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means connected to said establishing and changing means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity. 17. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness in its vicinity and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means connected to said sensing means for causing said generating means to generate an utterance indicative of excessive loudness if the loudness exceeds a predetermined level. 18. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and means for disabling said generating means for a time period if the loudness exceeds a predetermined level repeatedly. 19. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for monitoring said sensing means during a first random time period until the loudness falls below a predetermined level and for preventing operation of the generating means for a further random time period before the utterance is generated. 20. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for enabling operation of the generating means only after the loudness falls below a level during a first time period followed by expiration of a second time period that is extended if the loudness recurs, until the loudness again falls below the predetermined level. 21. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for enabling operation of the generating means only after the loudness falls below a level during a first time period followed by expiration of a second time period that is extended, if the loudness recurs, for a third time period commencing when the loudness recurs, until the sooner of the expiration of the third time period or the time when the loudness again falls below the level. 22. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for enabling operation of the generating means only after the loudness falls below a level during a first random time period followed by expiration of a second random time period. 23. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for supplying an identification code for the apparatus and means for broadcasting the identification code. 24. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a motion sensitive switch and means for supplying power for the apparatus so long as the apparatus is moved at intervals shorter than a predetermined interval. 25. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for supplying an identification code for the apparatus and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for repeatedly computer electrical representation of simulated emotions the presence or absence of which depends on the identification code for the apparatus. 26. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind and further comprising means for sensing an identification code of the additional apparatus and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for causing said generating means to generate an utterance identifying the additional apparatus. 27. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind and further comprising means for sensing an identification code of the additional apparatus and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for comparing the identification code of the additional apparatus with an identification code of the first-named apparatus and determining the utterance index as a function of the identification codes. 28. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind and further comprising means for sensing a subject code of the additional apparatus and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for counting utterances of the additional apparatus and resetting the counting when the subject code of the additional apparatus changes. 29. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for varying an electrical level and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for establishing a plurality of levels of decisional influence as a function of the electrical level. 30. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for varying an electrical level and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for establishing a level of simulated expectation as a function of the electrical level. 31. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for varying an electrical level and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for establishing a plurality of levels of decisional influence as a function of the electrical level and a level of simulated expectation as a further function of the electrical level. 32. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind and further comprising means for sensing a subject code of the additional apparatus and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for comparing the subject codes of the first-named and additional apparatus and for producing one of two decision values as representing a simulated decision of the additional apparatus depending on whether or not the subject codes are the same. 33. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind and further comprising means for sensing a subject code of the additional apparatus and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for comparing the subject codes of the first-named and additional apparatus and for producing one of two decision values representing a decision imputed to the additional apparatus depending on whether or not the subject codes are the same, for establishing levels of decisional influence for the firstnamed apparatus and for producing one of two decision values representing a simulated decision of the first-named apparatus depending on whether a combined total of the levels of decisional influence exceeds a predetermined level. 34. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind and further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity, and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for producing one of two simulated decision values representing a decision of the additional apparatus, for establishing, a first level of decisional influence as a function of the simulated decision value and the loudness, and a second level of decisional influence, and for modifying the simulated decision value as a function of the first and second levels of decisional influence. 35. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind and wherein said establishing and changing means, also comprises means for repeatedly producing one of two simulated decision values representing a decision of the additional apparatus and for repeatedly producing one of two simulated decision values representing a decision the first-named apparatus and for repeatedly computing emotions as a function of each said one of the simulated decision values of the first-named and additional apparatus. 36. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said establishing and charging means also comprises means for computing an electrical representation of a simulated hope emotion and causing said generating means to also generate an utterance representing the simulated hope emotion. 37. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for varying an electrical level and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for computing an electrical representation of a simulated hope emotion as a function of the electrical level and causing said generating means to also generate an utterance representing the simulated hope emotion. 38. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for establishing a decisional influence level and computing an electrical representation of a simulated boredom emotion as a function of the decisional influence level and the loudness sensed. 39. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for computing an electrical representation of a simulated boredom emotion and causing said generating means to also generate an utterance representing the simulated boredom emotion. 40. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for computing an electrical representation of a simulated surprise emotion and causing said generating means to also generate an utterance representing the simulated surprise emotion. 41. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for computing an electrical representation of a simulated like-dislike emotion and causing said generating means to also generate an utterance representing the simulated like-dislike emotion. 42. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for computing an electrical representation of a simulated tension emotion and causing said generating means to also generate an utterance representing the simulated tension emotion, the apparatus further comprising means for supplying an identification code for the apparatus, and the utterance representing the simulated tension emotion depending on the identification code. 43. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for computing an electrical representation of a simulated fear emotion and causing said generating means to also generate an utterance representing the simulated fear emotion. 44. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 1 for establishing a level of decisional influence and for computing one of two decision levels representing a decision in simulation by the apparatus as a function of the decisional influence and the subject code, and for changing the subject code when the decision changes. 45. Electronic speech control apparatus for use with additional apparatus of the same kind, and comprising means for establishing and automatically changing over time a subject code and an utterance index, the subject code generally indicating one of a plurality of sets of utterances and the utterance index identifying an utterance of at least one word in the set indicated by the subject code; and means responsive to the establishing and changing means for generating the utterance identified by the utterance index in the set indicated by the subject code; and means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity and for sensing a subject code established in the additional apparatus and said establishing and changing means also comprises means for computing an electrical representation of a simulated emotion repeatedly as a function of the loudness and the subject code sensed. 46. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 45 and said establishing and changing means in the first-named apparatus also comprises means for supplying a value of a decisional influence and for computing an electrical representation of a simulated emotion repeatedly as a function of the value of the decisional influence, the subject code established, the loudness and the subject code sensed. 47. Electronic speech control apparatus comprising means for establishing and automatically changing over time a subject code and an utterance index, the subject code generally indicating one of a plurality of sets of utterances and the utterance index identifying an utterance of at least one word in the set indicated by the subject code; means responsive to the establishing and changing means for generating the utterance identified by the utterance index in the set indicated by the subject code; and means for supplying an identification code for the apparatus and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for selecting one of a plurality of collections of the sets of utterances depending on the identification code for the apparatus, the subject code determining one of the sets of utterances within the selected collection of sets. 48. Electronic speech control apparatus for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind and the first-named apparatus comprising means for establishing and automatically changing over time a subject code and an utterance index, the subject code generally indicating one of a plurality of sets of utterances and the utterance index identifying an utterance of at least one word in the set indicated by the subject code; means responsive to the establishing and changing means for generating the utterance identified by the utterance index in the set indicated by the subject code; and means for sensing an identification code of the additional apparatus and wherein said establishing and changing means in the first-named apparatus also comprises means for selecting one of a plurality of collections of the sets of utterances depending on the identification code for the additional apparatus, the subject code determining one of the sets of utterances within the selected collection of sets. 49. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 48 wherein said sensing means comprises means for sensing the identification code for the additional apparatus by magnetic induction. 50. Electronic speech control apparatus comprising computer circuit means for repeatedly computing and storing an electrical representation of a level of an emotion in simulation as a computer control variable; and means responsive to the computing circuit means for generating an utterance selected in accordance with the control variable so computed as being a simulated emotion of the apparatus itself. 51. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said, computing means also comprises means for computing a simulated hope emotion. 52. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for computing a simulated fear emotion. 53. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for computing a simulated surprise emotion. 54. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein, said computing means also comprises means for computing a simulated boredom emotion. 55. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for computing a glad-sad feelings simulated emotion. 56. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for computing a simulated self-esteem emotion. 57. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for computing a simulated like-dislike emotion. 58. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for computing a simulated tension emotion. 59. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 further comprising means for establishing an identification code for the apparatus as a unit and wherein said computing means also comprises means for computing simulated emotions the presence or absence of which depends on the identification code for the apparatus as a unit. 60. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 further comprising means for establishing an identification code for the apparatus as a unit and wherein said computing means also comprises means for causing said generating means to generate different utterances to represent the same simulated emotion depending on the identification code established. 61. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for establishing levels of simulated expectation and decisional influence and for computing a simulated hope emotion as a function of the levels of simulated expectation and decisional influence. 62. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for establishing a level of simulated expectation and computing a simulated surprise emotion as a function of the level of simulated expectation. 63. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for establishing levels of decisional influence representing aiding or opposing influences and computing a simulated boredom emotion which represents significant boredom in simulation when the levels of the decisional influence represent opposing influences in approximate balance. 64. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind wherein said computing means also comprises means for establishing levels of decisional influence representing aiding or opposing influences one of which is related to operation of the additional apparatus, and for computing a simulated like-dislike emotion as a function of the magnitudes of the levels of decisional influence and representing a simulated liking emotion when the levels represent aiding influences and a simulated dislike emotion when the levels represent opposing influences. 65. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind wherein said computing means also comprises means for establishing levels of decisional influence representing aiding or opposing influences one of which is related to operation of the additional apparatus, and for computing a simulated self-esteem emotion as a function of the level of the related influence which represents significant self-esteem when a combined total of the decisional influence levels is aiding in sense to the related influence. 66. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for establishing levels of decisional influence of aiding or opposing sense and for computing a simulated tension emotion of significant magnitude as a function of the level of decisional influence when they are in opposing sense. 67. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind wherein said computing means also comprises means for establishing a decisional influence level and simulated decisions respectively related to the first-named apparatus and the additional apparatus and for computing a simulated glad-sad emotion as a function of the decisional influence level, and determining a glad, or said character of the simulated emotion as a function of the simulated decisions 68. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for causing said generating means to generate an utterance representing the simulated emotion computed only when the simulated emotion has changed in value. 69. Electronic speech control apparatus as set forth in claim 50 wherein said computing means also comprises means for establishing and changing over time an utterance index to identify at any given time a particular utterance in a set of utterances and for causing said generating means to also generate an utterance identified by the utterance index. 70. For use in talking toys and the like, apparatus comprising means for generating utterances electronically; and means responsive to a person's speech for automatically producing a subject code to organize its utterances to be on the same subject before and after an instance of a person's speech and for controlling said generating means so that it generates the utterances in an alternating conversational fashion. 71. Apparatus as set forth in claim 70 wherein said controlling means includes means for sensing sounds in the vicinity and utilizing the sensed sounds to determine the utterances. 72. Apparatus as set forth in claim 70 wherein said controlling means includes means for sensing the loudness of sounds in its vicinity and utilizing the loudness to determine the utterances. 73. Apparatus as set forth in claim 72 wherein said sensing means includes a microphone, means connected to the microphone for amplifying and rectifying the output of the microphone, automatic gain control means with fast attack and slow decay for controlling said amplifying and rectifying means; and comparing means connected to said automatic gain control means for providing a signal indicating when the loudness is below a predetermined level. 74. Apparatus as set forth in claim 73 wherein said sensing means further includes circuit means with fast attack and slower decay than said automatic gain control means and second comparing means connected to said circuit means for providing a signal indicating that the loudness exceeds another predetermined level. 75. Apparatus as set forth in claim 73 wherein said sensing means further includes means connected to said amplifying and rectifying means for supplying an electrical level with fast attack and slower decay than said automatic gain control means which electrical level acts as a decisional influence for said controlling means. 76. Apparatus as set forth in claim 70 wherein said controlling means also comprises means for repeatedly computing an electrical representation of a simulated emotion and causing said generating means to generate a further utterance determined from the simulated emotion so computed. 77. Apparatus as set forth in claim 70 wherein said controlling means also comprises means for determining the utterances by selecting a subject code representing a subject thereof and for causing said generating means to also generate an utterance when the selected subject code is changed. 78. Apparatus as set forth in claim 70 wherein the apparatus further comprises means connected to said controlling means for varying an electrical level as a decisional influence for said controlling means. 79. Apparatus as set forth in claim 70 wherein said controlling means also comprises means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity between utterances and for causing said generating means to generate an additional utterance indicative of an excessive loudness when the same occurs. 80. Apparatus as set forth in claim 70 wherein said controlling means also comprises means for causing said generating means to generate an additional utterance identifying another toy by name when the other toy is in its vicinity. 81. Apparatus as set forth in claim 70 further comprising means for sensing when the apparatus is moved and means connected to said sensing means for supplying power to said generating means and said controlling means so long as the apparatus is moved at intervals shorter than a predetermined time interval. 82. For use in talking toys and the like, talking apparatus comprising means for generating utterances electronically; and controlling means, for use with additional apparatus of the same talking kind, for automatically producing a subject code to organize its utterances to be on the same subject before and after an utterance of the additional apparatus and for controlling said generating means so that it generates the utterances in an alternating conversational fashion in automatic response to utterances of the additional apparatus. 83. Apparatus as set forth in claim 82 further comprising means for sending a code for cuing the additional apparatus. 84. Apparatus as set forth in claim 71 further comprising means connected to said controlling means for broadcasting a subject code for cuing the additional apparatus. 85. Apparatus as set forth in claim 82 further comprising means for broadcasting a code by magnetic induction for cuing the additional apparatus. 86. Apparatus as set forth in claim 82 further comprising means for broadcasting a code for cuing the additional apparatus and wherein said controlling means also comprises means for supplying the code to said broadcasting means as bursts of pulses. 87. Apparatus as set forth in claim 82 further comprising means for broadcasting a code for cuing the additional apparatus and wherein said controlling means also comprises means for supplying the code to said broadcasting means as bursts of pulses, the bursts having long or short length corresponding to logic levels. 88. Apparatus as set forth in claim 82 further comprising means for broadcasting a code for cuing the additional apparatus and wherein said controlling means also comprises means for supplying the code to said broadcasting means as bursts of pulses, the pulses having a frequency between 5 and 50 KHz. 89. Apparatus as set forth in claim 82 further comprising means for broadcasting a code for cuing the additional apparatus and wherein said controlling means also comprises means for supplying the code to said broadcasting means as bursts of pulses, the pulses having a frequency in excess of 5 KHz. and the bursts having a width of at least 30 milliseconds. 90. Apparatus as set forth in claim 82 further comprising means connected to said controlling means for receiving a code from the additional apparatus, said controlling means also comprising means for utilizing said code to determine the utterances. 91. Apparatus as set forth in claim 82 further comprising means connected to said controlling means for receiving a code by magnetic induction from the additional apparatus, said controlling means also comprising means for utilizing said code to determine the utterances. 92. Apparatus as set forth in claim 91 wherein said receiving means includes means for sensing a magnetic induction to produce a signal, means for bandpass filtering the signal around a first frequency, means for rectifying the signal, and means for bandpass filtering the rectified signal around a second lower frequency to detect the code. 93. Apparatus as set forth in claim 82 further comprising means for receiving a code from the additional apparatus as bursts of pulses, said receiving means including means for converting the bursts of pulses to a series of logic levels and means for supplying the logic levels to said controlling means. 94. Apparatus as set forth in claim 82 further comprising means for sending a code for cuing the additional apparatus, and means for receiving another code from the additional apparatus and ignoring the code from said sending means. 95. Apparatus as set forth in claim 71 wherein said means for controlling includes means for sensing a sound in its vicinity and utilizing the sensed sound to determine an utterance. 96. Apparatus as set forth in claim 71 wherein said means for controlling includes means for causing said generating means to generate an additional utterance identifying by name another toy incorporating the additional apparatus when the other toy is in its vicinity. 97. Apparatus as set forth in claim 71 further comprising means for supplying an identification code for the apparatus and means for broadcasting the identification code. 98. For use in talking toys and the like, apparatus comprising means for electronically generating utterances; means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity between utterances; and means for causing said generating means to generate an utterance indicative of excessive loudness when the same occurs wherein said causing means also comprises means for disabling said generating means for a time period when the loudness exceeds a predetermined level repeatedly. 99. A method for control of electronic speech comprising the steps of establishing and automatically changing over time a subject code and an utterance index, the subject code generally indicating one of a plurality of sets of utterances and the utterance index identifying an utterance of at least one word in the set indicated by the subject code; electronically generating the utterance identified by the utterance index in the set indicated by the subject code; changing the utterance index when each utterance is generated; and subsequently changing the subject code at random automatically. 100. A method for control of electronic speech comprising the steps of repeatedly computing and storing an electrical representation of an emotion in simulation in an apparatus as a computed control variable; and generating an utterance in response to the repeated computing and storing, the utterance selected in accordance with the control variable so computed as being a simulated emotion of the apparatus itself. 101. A method for control of electronic speech for use in talking toys and the like comprising the steps of generating utterances electronically; automatically organizing the utterances to be on the same subject before and after an instance of a person's speech; and controlling the utterances in an alternating conversational fashion in response to a person's speech. 102. For use in talking toys and the like, apparatus comprising means for establishing and automatically changing over time a subject code generally indicating one of a plurality of sets of utterances; means for broadcasting the subject code to additional apparatus for the same kind; means for sensing a subject code established in and broadcast from the additional apparatus; and means responsive to the establishing and changing means for generating an utterance in the set indicated by the subject code; and wherein said means for establishing and changing is connected to said means for sensing and includes means for controlling said generating means so that it generates utterances in an alternating conversational fashion in response to utterances of the additional apparatus. 103. Apparatus as set forth in claim 102 wherein said establishing and changing means in the first-names apparatus also comprises mans connected to the sensing means for changing the subject code in the first-names apparatus in response to the subject code sensed from the additional apparatus. 104. ApparatUs as set forth in claim 103 wherein said establishing and changing means in the first-names apparatus also comprises means connected to the sensing means for changing the subject code in the first-named apparatus so that said means for generating generates utterances on the same subject as the additional apparatus. 105. Apparatus as set forth in claim 103 further comprising means responsive to the establishing and changing means for executing a visible motion corresponding to an utterance so generated. 106. Apparatus as set forth in claim 103 wherein the establishing and changing means includes means for subsequently changing the subject code at random. 107. Apparatus as set forth in claim 103 wherein said means for establishing and changing includes means for controlling said means for generating so that it generates utterances on a first subject indicated by the subject code and for subsequently changing the subject code so that said means for generating generates utterances on another subject indicated by the subject code so changed. 108. Apparatus as set forth in claim 103 wherein said means for establishing and changing includes means for controlling said generating means so that it generates utterances in an alternating conversational fashion in response to utterances of the additional apparatus. 109. Apparatus as set forth in claim 103 further comprising means for supplying an identification code for the apparatus wherein said means for broadcasting includes means for also broadcasting the identification code. 110. Apparatus as set forth in claim 103 further comprising means for sensing an identification code of the additional apparatus and wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for causing said generating means to generate an utterance identifying the additional apparatus. 111. Apparatus as set forth in claim 103 wherein said establishing and changing means also comprises means for comparing the subject codes of the first-named and additional apparatus and for producing one of two decisions values as representing a decision related to the additional apparatus depending on whether or not the subject codes are the same. 112. For use in talking toys and the like, apparatus comprising means for establishing and changing over time a subject code generally indicating one of a plurality of sets of utterances; means responsive to the establishing and changing means for generating an utterance in the set indicated by the subject code; and means for supplying an identification code selectively representing whether the utterances are those of a baby or a child, to said means for establishing and changing. 113. Apparatus as set forth in claim 114 further comprising means for broadcasting the identification code. 114. Electronic speech control apparatus comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity; means for generating utterances in response to control signals supplied thereto; and control means responsive to said means for sensing, for establishing values randomly of a first time period and a second time period and enabling operation of said generating means only after the loudness falls below a level during the first time period and then remains below the level throughout the second time period. 115. Electronic speech control apparatus, for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same kind, comprising means for sensing operations of the additional apparatus; means for generating utterances in response to control signals supplied thereto; and control means responsive to said means for sensing, for repeatedly producing either of two decision values selectively representing a decision related to the operations of the additional apparatus and for repeatedly producing either of two decision values selectively. representing a decision related to operations of the first-names apparatus and for repeatedly computing electrical representations of simulated emotions as a function of the decision values related to the first-names and additional apparatus, and producing control signals to control said means for generating utterances based on the decision values and simulated emotions so computed. 116. Electronic speech control apparatus, for use with additional electronic speech control apparatus of the same talking kind, comprising means for sensing loudness of sound in its vicinity; means for generating utterances in response to control signals supplied thereto; and control means responsive to said means for sensing, for producing either of two decision values selectively, representing a decision related to the operation of the additional apparatus, establishing a first level of decisional influence, establishing a second level of decisional influence as a function of the decision value and the loudness, producing either of two decision values selectively, representing a decision related to operation of the first-named apparatus as a function of the first and second levels of decisional influence, and production control signals to control said means for generating utterances based on the decision values of the decision related to the first-named apparatus. 