A spindle clamp for supporting a disk includes a radial control member that is in contact with an opening through a jaw and that has a contour such that radial expansion of the jaw is induced during initial movement of the jaw toward a registration surface for seating the disk. However, the contour is such that further movement of the jaw toward the registration surface is an axial motion, rather than a combination of axial and radial motion. In one preferred embodiment, the jaw is unitary, but is configured to enable the radial expansion while having sufficient rigidity to reliably clamp a data disk seating on the registration surface. The jaw may include a lip which is configured to contact the major surface of the disk opposite to its contact with the registration surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spindle clamp for supporting a disk comprising: a unitary jaw having an axial opening and having a geometry which includes structural features enabling radial expansion upon application of radial force applied along said axial opening, said unitary jaw having a lip configured to contact a first major surface of said disk; a registration surface located to contact a second major surface of said disk to position said disk in a desired orientation when said disk is captured between said lip and said registration surface; and a radial control member in contact with said axial opening of said unitary jaw to allow relative movement between said radial control member and said unitary jaw, said radial force control member having a contour such that said radial expansion of said unitary jaw is induced during a portion of movement of said lip toward said registration surface and such that further said radial expansion is avoided in a final portion of said movement of said lip toward said registration surface. 2. The spindle clamp of claim 1 further comprising a cap and a means for providing displacement of said cap relative to said radial control member, said unitary jaw being fixed to said cap, said cap being dimensioned to guide said disk into said desired orientation on said registration surface. 3. The spindle clamp of claim 2 wherein said cap includes a plurality of fingers extending parallel to an axis of said cap, said cap being co-axial to said unitary jaw, said fingers being positioned to provide guidance of said disk into said desired orientation. 4. The spindle clamp of claim 3 wherein said unitary jaw includes slots aligned with said fingers, said unitary jaw having a relaxed condition in which said unitary jaw extends radially by a distance not exceeding a radial extent of said cap, said radial expansion of said unitary jaw into an expanded condition being one in which said unitary jaw extends beyond said radial extent of said cap. 5. The spindle clamp of claim 4 further comprising an elastomeric ring within a groove of said unitary jaw to provide bias into said relaxed condition. 6. The spindle clamp of claim 4 wherein said contour of said radial control member is such that movement of said lip of said unitary jaw from contact with said disk maintains said unitary jaw in said expanded condition until a transition position in reached, whereafter said contour enables radial contraction. 7. The spindle clamp of claim 5 wherein said contour is one in which said transition position is established by a change between a cylindrical shape to a sloped shape of said radial control member. 8. The spindle clamp of claim 1 wherein said unitary jaw is formed of a hard plastic material. 9. The spindle clamp of claim 1 further comprising a drive means for controlling rotation of said registration surface and said unitary jaw. 10. A spindle clamp comprising: a clamp body having a registration surface for supporting a removable disk; a jaw having a plurality of portions arranged about a jaw axis to enable radial expansion, said jaw having a clamping position and having a release position in which said disk is released; a central structure along which said jaw moves during motion of said jaw relative to said registration surface, said central structure having a sloping region positioned to vary said radial expansion of said jaw when said jaw is moved along a first axial path portion distant from said clamping position, said central structure further having a constant dimension region positioned to maintain a constant said radial expansion of said jaw when said jaw is moved along a second axial path portion proximate to said clamping position; and a clamp device for displacing said jaw relative to said central structure so as to move said jaw along said first and second axial path portions. 11. The spindle clamp of claim 10 wherein said sloping region of said central structure is a portion of a conical surface and wherein said constant dimension region is a cylindrical surface. 12. The spindle clamp of claim 10 wherein said jaw is a unitary member having a lip positioned to contact said disk on a side opposite to said registration surface. 13. The spindle clamp of claim 10 further comprising a cap connected to said clamp drive and said jaw, said cap including a plurality of fingers which are perpendicular to said registration surface and which are symmetrically arranged to guide said disk to said registration surface. 14. The spindle clamp of claim 13 wherein said cap has a truncated conical surface to guide said disk to said fingers. 15. The spindle clamp of claim 13 wherein said jaw includes slots aligned to receive said fingers. 16. The spindle clamp of claim 10 wherein said clamp drive includes a spring which biases said jaw into said clamping position. 17. The spindle clamp of claim 10 further comprising an O-ring within said jaw to bias said portions of said jaw into a contracted condition. 18. A spindle clamp comprising: a unitary jaw having interconnected jaw portions, each having a lip region; a rotational clamp body having a registration surface for seating a disk; a radial control member connected to said rotational clamp body, said radial control member passing through said unitary jaw, said radial control member having a conical region in which said unitary jaw expands in diameter with an initial approach of said lip regions toward said disk residing on said registration surface and having a cylindrical region in which said unitary jaw retains a fixed diameter within a final approach of said lip regions toward said disk residing on said registration surface; and a cap fixed to said unitary jaw, said cap including symmetrically arranged fingers which are perpendicular to said registration surface. 