A sample processing system 101 that may be automated and methods are disclosed where sample(s) 198 are arranged on a carrier element 197 and a process operation control system 171 automatically processes the sample(s) perhaps robotically according to an desired aggregation of event dictated by an input 173. Alteration of an initial aggregated event topology may be accepted while the system is processing an initial aggregation and varied-parameter robotic control simulation functionalities 606 may be accomplished to determine an enhanced sequence for processing. Suggested operator actions may be displayed that might further enhance the scheduling of the altered aggregated event topology together with an automatic operator need prompt 608 that may inform an operator of a need for a particular action in order to accomplish the desired tasks. Reversibility to proposed changes may be made available so that an operator may avoid having to activate proposed changes if they cause a processing result that is not acceptable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of adaptively scheduling robot tasks for a robot coupled to a stainer, wherein the robot processes slides in the stainer according to a protocol, the method comprising the steps of: establishing a network connection between a computer and the stainer; sending commands from the computer to the stainer over the network connection; introducing a first at least one slide into the stainer, the stainer being configured to process the first at least one slide using a plurality of desired slide process operations comprising one or more robot tasks; creating a robot task list of the one or more robot tasks for the stainer, wherein robot tasks include dispensing reagents to the slide with a moveable robotic dispenser; processing the first at least one slide according to the robot task list; during processing of the first at least one slide according to the robot task list, receiving a second at least one slide into the stainer; and adaptively rescheduling the robot tasks of the robot task list to create an altered robot task list of the one or more robot tasks for the stainer. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of discontinuing processing of the first at least one slide according to the robot task list and commencing processing of the first at least one slide according to the altered robot task list. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein rescheduling includes running one or more simulations using varied schedules in order to determine the altered robot task list. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein adaptively rescheduling comprises: determining a robot task priority for each robot task in the robot task list; and sorting the robot task list in order of robot task priority. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the steps are performed automatically by the stainer. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one slide includes a sample. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one slide is arranged in a substantially horizontal position. 