A circuit for detecting the positions and intensities of peaks in a digital input signal (which may be a digitized version of a signal from a CCD forming part of a three dimensional imaging device) employs a second derivative of the input signal for validating the presence of each input peak. Each validation signal enables an interpolation circuit that determines the position of a peak by finding the location of a zero crossing point of a first derivative of the input signal. Each validation signal also enables a maximum detector for measuring the intensity of each peak. The arrangement does not require resetting after each detection of a peak and is less sensitive than prior devices to noise or DC or low frequency components.
Claims I claim: 1. A circuit for detecting the positions of peaks in a digital input signal, comprising (a) means for generating a first derivative signal of said input signal, wherein the position of each said peak is represented by a zero crossing point of said first derivative signal, (b) means for generating a second derivative signal of said input signal, wherein the position of each said peak is represented by a further peak, (c) means for generating a validation signal when the absolute value of a said further peak exceeds a threshold value, and (d) an interpolation circuit enabled by a said validation signal for receiving said first derivative signal for generating an output identifying the location of each said zero crossing point, each such location representing the position of a peak of the input signal. 2. A circuit according to claim 1, including a maximum detector for generating an output representing the amplitude of each peak of the input signal. 3. A circuit according to claim 2, wherein said maximum detector is enabled by a said validation signal and receives the input signal, or a filtered version thereof, from which to generate said output representing the amplitude of each peak of the input signal. 4. A circuit according to claim 1 wherein said means (a) and (b) for generating said first and second derivative signals respectively comprise a pair of finite impulse response filters connected in cascade. 5. A circuit according to claim 2 wherein said means (a) and (b) for generating said first and second derivative signals respectively comprise a pair of finite impulse response filters connected in cascade. 6. A circuit according to claim 3 wherein said means (a) and (b) for generating said first and second derivative signals respectively comprise a pair of finite impulse response filters connected in cascade. 7. A circuit according to claim 1, wherein said means (a) and (b) for generating said first and second derivative signals comprise (e) a finite impulse response filter, and (f) multiplexing, demultiplexing and buffer means for alternately passing said input signal and said first derivative signal into said filter and for respectively and alternately receiving said first derivative signal and said second derivative signal from said filter. 8. A circuit according to claim 2, wherein said means (a) and (b) for generating said first and second derivative signals comprise (e) a finite impulse response filter, and (f) multiplexing, demultiplexing and buffer means for alternately passing said input signal and said first derivative signal into said filter and for respectively and alternately receiving said first derivative signal and said second derivative signal from said filter. 9. A circuit according to claim 3, wherein said means (a) and (b) for generating said first and second derivative signals comprise (e) a finite impulse response filter, and (f) multiplexing, demultiplexing and buffer means for alternately passing said input signal and said first derivative signal into said filter and for respectively and alternately receiving said first derivative signal and said second derivative signal from said filter. 10. A circuit for detecting the positions and intensities of peaks in a digital input signal having a series of scan lines spaced by a predetermined line interval, said circuit comprising (a) a finite impulse filter, (b) means for passing a first one of said scan lines through said filter to generate a first derivative signal of said first scan line wherein the position of each said peak in the input signal is represented by a zero crossing point of said first derivative signal, and, during the next scan line, for subsequently passing said first derivative signal through said filter to generate a second derivative signal of said first scan line wherein the position of each said peak in the input signal is represented by a further peak, (c) means for generating a validation signal when the absolute value of each said further peak exceeds a threshold value, (d) an interpolation circuit enabled by a said validation signal for receiving said first derivative signal for generating an output identifying the location of each said zero crossing point, each such location representing the position of a peak in said first scan line, and (e) a maximum detector for generating an output representing the amplitude of each peak in said first scan line. 11. A circuit according to claim 10, wherein said maximum detector is enabled by a said validation signal and receives said first scan line, or a filtered version thereof, from which to generate said output representing the amplitude of each peak in said first scan line. 12. A circuit according to claim 10, including (f) means for averaging the lines of each consecutive, distinct, adjacent pair of said scan lines of the input signal to generate average scan lines spaced from each other by two line intervals, said first one of said scan lines passed through the filter then being a first one of said average scan lines, and the passing of the first derivative signal through the filter taking place during the interval between the first average scan line and the next average scan line. 13. In combination with a three dimensional imaging device having means for scanning discrete images of each of a plurality of points on a target surface, wherein for each said point the spacing between said images represents a Z coordinate of said point, the geometric center between said images represents an X coordinate of said point, and the line being scanned represents a Y coordinate of said point: a circuit according to claim 2, further including (e) means for converting an output from said imaging device into said digital input signal, with said discrete images appearing as said peaks in the input signal, and (f) a processor connected to receive said outputs from the interpolation circuit and the maximum detector for generating therefrom data identifying the X, Y and Z coordinates of each said point on the target surface. 14. In combination with a three dimensional imaging device having means for scanning discrete images of each of a plurality of points on a target surface, wherein for each said point the spacing between said images represents a Z coordinate of said point, the geometric center between said images represents an X coordinate of said point, and the line being scanned represents a Y coordinate of said point: a circuit according to claim 10, further including (g) means for converting an output from said imaging device into said digital input signal, with said discrete images appearing as said peaks in the input signal, and (h) a processor connected to receive said outputs from the interpolation circuit and the maximum detector for generating therefrom data identifying the X, Y and Z coordinates of each said point on the target surface. 15. The combination of claim 13, wherein said processor solves the equations ##EQU6## where X, Y and Z are said coordinates and b is said spacing between images, f is the focal length of a lens in the imaging device, L is the distance in the Z direction between a reference plane and the lens, and Xo and Yo are the X and Y coordinates of the geometrical center of said images. 16. The combination of claim 14, wherein said processor solves the equations ##EQU7## where X, Y and Z are said coordinates and b is said spacing between images, f is the focal length of a lens in the imaging device, L is the distance in the Z direction between a reference plane and the lens, and Xo and Yo are the X and Y coordinates of the geometrical center of said images. 17. In combination with a three dimensional imaging device having means for scanning discrete images of each of a plurality of points on a target surface, wherein for each said point the spacing between said images represents a Z coordinate of said point, the geometric center between said images represents an X coordinate of said point, and the line being scanned represents a Y coordinate of said point: a circuit for detecting the positions and intensities of peaks in a digital signal representing said images, said circuit further including (a) means for converting an output from said imaging device into said digital input signal, with said discrete images appearing as said peaks in the input signal, and (b) a processor connected to receive data representing said positions and intensities for generating therefrom the X, Y and Z coordinates of each said point on the target surface. 18. The combination of claim 17, wherein said processor solves the equations ##EQU8## where X, Y and Z are said coordinates and b is said spacing between images, f is the focal length of a lens in the imaging device, L is the distance in the Z direction between a reference plane and the lens, and Xo and Yo are the X and Y coordinates of the geometrical center of said images. 