A wire canister capable of being used by robots during the assembly of a wire harness. The wire canister is capable of accepting, storing and dispensing random lengths of wire, i.e., a wire segment. The leading and trailing ends of the wire segment are constrained in such a way that the ends of the wire segment may be readily acquired by the manipulator of a robot and presented to other supporting equipment for purposes of performing operations on the ends of the wire segment.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A transportable canister for accepting, storing and dispensing a wire segment to be used by a robot during the assembly of a wire harness, comprising: a cylindrical housing having an access opening for a wire, a cylindrical drum disposed within said housing, the outer surface of said drum being provided with a wire-accepting helical groove and a wire inlet opening, means for enabling said drum to rotate with respect to said housing, a drive plate attached to said drum whereby a rotation of said drive plate effects a rotation of said drum, said drive plate being provided with a wire outlet opening, a wire guide tube disposed within said drum and extending between said inlet opening and said outlet opening, means forming a first releasable clamp for constraining and centering the leading end of said wire segment, said first clamp means being disposed at said outlet opening, and means forming a second releasable clamp for constraining and centering the trailing end of said wire segment, said second releasable clamp means being disposed at said access opening; whereby in use said drive plate and thus said drum may be rotated to initially align said inlet opening with said access opening and subsequently wind said wire into said groove. 2. The canister of claim 1, further comprising means for guiding said wire from said inlet opening to said groove. 3. The canister of claim 2, further comprising means for retaining said wire in said groove. 4. The canister of claim 3, wherein said enabling means comprises: an end plate attached to said housing, said end plate having a bore and supporting a sleeve adapted to be received by said bore; a bolt affixed to said drum and passing freely through said sleeve, whereby said bolt may rotate with respect to said housing; and a needle bearing juxtaposed between said end plate and said drum. 5. The canister of claim 4, wherein one open end of said guide tube is affixed to the inner peripheral wall of said drum and alignable with said inlet opening, the other open end of said guide tube is affixed to said drive plate and aligned with said outlet opening. 6. The canister of claim 5, wherein said first and said second clamp means each comprises: a scroll plate having a central circular opening, said scroll plate being provided with a plurality of arcuate scrollwork protuberances; a chuck having a cylindrical plug received within said scroll plate opening to allow said chuck to be rotated with respect to said scroll plate, said chuck being provided with a bore coaxial with said scroll plate opening, said chuck having a plurality of recesses extending radially outwardly from said bore to the outer periphery of said chuck; a jaw adapted to slide within each of said recesses, each jaw being provided with a plurality of arcuate teeth adapted to cooperate with said scrollwork protuberances whereby when said chuck is rotated, each of said jaws will be urged to either slide to a closed position wherein said wire segment may be constrained or slide to an open position wherein said wire may be released; releasable means for latching said chuck and preventing the rotation of said chuck after said jaws have been urged toward an open position, and means for rotating said chuck after said chuck is unlatched to cause said jaws to be urged to a closed position. 7. The canister of claim 6, wherein said releasable means comprises a first pin extending from said chuck, a latch spring-biased towards said pin, said latch having a detent adapted to receive said pin, whereby said chuck can be rotated to a latched position wherein said pin is received in said detent and the rotation of said chuck is prevented. 8. The canister of claim 7, wherein said chuck rotating means comprises a rotatable reel upon which a line may be wound, said reel being spring-biased to a position wherein said line maybe wound upon said reel, a post extending from said chuck, said line being attached to said post, whereby when said chuck is rotated to urge said jaws to an open position, said line is unwound from said spring-biased reel and when said chuck is unlatched, said line is rewound onto said spring-biased reel thereby rotating said chuck and urging said jaws to a closed position. 9. The canister of claim 3, wherein said wire guide means comprises a bar having an arcuate edge, said bar being affixed within said housing and positioned proximate said groove, said arcuate surface leading away from said inlet opening and being capable of directing said wire segment away from said inlet opening to said groove. 10. The canister of claim 9, wherein said wire segment retaining means comprises a plurality of blocks extending within said housing along said drum and being positioned proximate said groove. 