A contact sensor for detecting points on a grid where the sensor is being contacted on opposing sides by teeth surfaces or other contacting points. The sensor is especially useful for measuring dental occlusion. The contact sensor includes two sets of parallel electrodes which are each formed on a thin, flexible supporting sheet. The electrodes are separated by a thin, pressure-sensitive resistive coating such as molydenum disulphide. Two such electrode structures are oriented at approximately right angles to create a grid where the intersecting electrodes cross separated by the resistive coatings. Several arrangements of resistive coating over electrodes as disclosed. In the absence of an external force, the material between the electrodes sets provides a high resistance between intersecting electrodes. The resistance between electrode intersections changes as pressure on opposite sides of the intersection changes. The sensor output is dynamic in that the resistance will vary as external pressure is repeatedly applied and removed. The sensor may be made extremely thin and can provide high resolution capable of distinguishing between contact points separated by 0.050 inches or less. A new circuit is provided which measures the resistance between each electrode intersection and provides an output representative of the opposing forces at the intersection. The circuit limits the maximum possible current which can flow in the sensor and provides increased resolution in measuring pressure between contacting surfaces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for measuring a person's dental occulsion, comprising: a thin, flexible sensor, including: a plurality of flexible parallel electrodes attached to and supported by a thin flexible backing sheet to provide a set of driven electrodes; a second plurality of flexible, generally parallel electrodes attached to and supported by a thin flexible backing sheet to provide a set of sensed electrodes; a resistive layer applied to at least one of the sensed and driven electrode sets and made of a resistive material whose resistance changes as a function of the pressure applied thereto; means for positioning the driven and sensed electrodes so that the two electrodes sets face one another separated by the resistive layer so as to form a thin, flexible sensor with the electrodes oriented at an angle to one another so that the electrodes of one set cross the electrodes of the other set at an angle to create a plurality of intersections where driven electrodes cross over sensed electrodes; the resistive layer having a thickness substantially less than the spacing between the electrodes and being arranged so as to provide a layer of resistive material between the driven and sensed electrodes at each intersection while maintaining comparative electrical isolation between the individual sensed electrodes in the absence of pressure applied to the sensor; said means for positioning being such as to allow insertion of the sensor into the person's mouth so that the facing electrode sets are between the person's upper and lower teeth; and measuring means connected to the sensed and driven electrodes for measuring the resistance between the driven and sensed electrodes at each intersection and for providing an output in response thereto representative of the force between contacting points of the person's bite. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the measuring means includes limiting means for preventing the total current flowing through the sensor from exceeding a predetermined limit. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the limiting means further includes: means for providing a test voltage at a test voltage terminal and for preventing current flowing through the test voltage terminal from exceeding a predetermined level; and means for sequentially connecting the test voltage terminal to each of the driven electrodes to apply the test voltage thereto. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 further including means, operative during the time that the test voltage is applied to a driven electrode, for grounding the other driven electrodes to which the test voltage is not applied. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 further including means, operative during the time that each driven electrode has the test voltage applied thereto, for sequentially selecting one or more sensed electrodes and for maintaining the selected one or more sensed electrodes at substantially ground potential while measuring the current flowing through each selected sensed electrode, whereby the ratios of the measured currents to the test voltage provides a representation of the force between contacting points on opposite sides of the sensor at the electrode intersections. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the means for providing a test voltage includes a reference voltage source and a resistor connecting the reference voltage to the test voltage terminal. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the values of the reference voltage and the resistor are chosen so as to limit the current flowing through the sensor to a value less than approximately 70 microamps. 8. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the predetermined current limit is approximately 70 microamps. 9. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the measuring means further includes: means for sequentially applying a test voltage to each of the driven electrodes; means responsive to the test voltage for providing an intermediate signal representative thereof such that the intermediate signal is proportional to the test voltage when the test voltage is above a predetermined threshold and so that the predetermined signal is maintained at a fixed value for test voltages below said threshold; and means for comparing the current flowing through a selected sensed electrode with the intermediate signal to provide a representation of the resistance between the selected sensed electrode and the driven electrode to which the test voltage is applied. 10. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the measuring means further includes means responsive to a direct contact between a sensed electrode and a driven electrode for causing the measuring means to provide a predetermined output as representative of the force between intersections along the corresponding sensed electrode. 11. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the resistive material includes graphite and molybdenum disulfide. 12. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the first and second plurality of generally parallel electrodes are formed on a single backing sheet and arranged so that they face one another and cross one another at an angle when the backing sheet is folded. 13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the backing sheet is formed of a polyester material. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the resistive material includes graphite and molybdenum disulfide. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first and second plurality of generally parallel electrodes are formed on a single backing sheet and arranged so that they face one another and cross one another at an angle when the backing sheet is folded 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the backing sheet supporting the sensed electrodes includes an isolation area between each pair of adjacent sensed electrodes to which the resistive material is not applied. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the resistive layer includes a stripe of said resistive material applied to each of the sensed electrodes, each stripe of resistive material being physically separated from strips of resistive material over adjacent sensed electrodes. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the resistive layer further includes a layer of resistive material applied to the driven electrodes. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the resistive layer applied to the driven electrodes is a continuous layer over the driven electrodes. 20. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the resistive layer applied to the driven electrodes includes a strip of said resistive material over each driven electrode. 21. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the resistive layer includes a continuous layer of resistive material applied to the driven electrodes and wherein the sensed electrodes do not have a layer of resistive material applied thereto. 22. A sensor for measuring opposing forces at a plurality of locations comprising: a plurality of flexible, generally parallel electrodes attached to and supported by a thin flexible backing sheet to provide a set of driven electrodes; a second plurality of flexible, generally parallel electrodes attached to and supported by a thin flexible backing sheet to provide a set of sensed electrodes; a resistive layer applied to at least one of the sensed and darien electrode sets and made of a resistive material whose resistance changes a function of the pressure applied thereto; the backing sheet supporting the sensed electrodes including an isolation are between each pair of adjacent sensed electrodes to which the resistive material is not applied; means for positioning the driven and sensed electrodes so that the two electrodes sets face one another separated by the resistive layer so as to form a thin, flexible sensor with the electrodes oriented at an angle to one another so that the electrodes of one set cross the electrodes of the other set at an angle to create a plurality of intersections where driven electrodes cross over sensed electrodes; the resistive layer having a thickness substantially less than the spacing between the electrodes and being arranged so as to provide a layer of resistive material between the driven and sensed electrodes at each intersection while maintaining comparative electrical isolation between the individual sensed electrodes in the absence of pressure applied to the sensor. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the resistive layer includes a stripe of said resistive material applied to each of the sensed electrodes, each strip of resistive material being physically separated from stripes of resistive material over adjacent sensed electrodes. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the resistive layer further includes a layer of resistive material applied to the driven electrodes. 25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein the resistive layer applied to the driven electrodes is a continuous layer over the driven electrodes. 26. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein the resistive layer applied to the driven electrodes includes a stripe of said resistive material over each driven electrode. 27. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the resistive layer includes a continuous layer of resistive material applied to the driven electrodes and wherein the sensed electrodes do not have a layer of resistive material applied thereto. 28. The apparatus of claim 22 further including measuring means connected to the sensed and driven electrodes for measuring the resistance between the driven and sensed electrodes at each intersection and for providing an output in response thereto representative of opposing forces on opposite sides of the sensor, the measuring means including limiting means for preventing the total current flowing through the sensor from exceeding a predetermined limit. 29. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein the limiting means further includes: means for providing a test voltage at a test voltage terminal and for preventing current flowing through the test voltage terminal from exceeding a predetermined level; and means for sequentially connecting the test voltage terminal to each of the driven electrodes to apply the test voltage thereto. 30. The apparatus of claim 29 further including means, operative during the time that the test voltage is applied to a driven electrode, for grounding the other driven electrodes to which the test voltage is not applied. 31. The apparatus of claim 30 further including means, operative during the time that each driven electrode has the test voltage applied thereto, for sequentially selecting one or more sensed electrodes and for maintaining the selected one or more sensed electrodes at substantially ground potential while measuring the current flowing through each selected sensed electrode, whereby the ratios of the measured currents to the test voltage provides a representation of the force between contacting points on opposite sides of the sensor at the electrode intersections. 32. The apparatus of claim 31 were in the means for providing a test voltage includes a reference voltage source and a resistor connecting the reference voltage to the test voltage terminal. 