A method and apparatus for managing communication between participants in a virtual environment enables the participants to elect to automatically connect with each other via a preferred communication mechanism, manually connect with each other, or choose not to connect with each other. The connection may be point-to-point between two participants or may include multiple participants. Establishment of a connection, or the ability to establish a connection, may be based on the proximity of the participants, or the Avatars representing the participants, in the virtual environment. Once the connection is established, the connection may be managed so that the connection is maintained while the Avatars remain proximate each other and is automatically severed once the Avatars move away from each other. Environmental noise and other audio aspects may be included in the connection to simulate a real-world conversation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of managing an audio communication session between a group of participants in a virtual environment, each of the group of participants being represented in the virtual environment by at least one Avatar, the method comprising the steps of: determining a center of mass of the audio communication session according to locations of the Avatars representing each of the group of participants to the audio communication session within the virtual environment; and causing the center of mass of the audio communication session to adjust according to movement of any of the Avatars representing the group of participants to the audio communication session as the Avatars representing the group of participants to the audio communication session move within the virtual environment; wherein a connect distance is used to determine whether a new participant may join the audio communication session, the connect distance being calculated as a distance between the center of mass of the audio communication session and an Avatar representing the new participant in the virtual environment; and wherein a participant to the audio communication session may be disconnected from the audio communication session if a distance between an Avatar associated with the participant and the center of mass of the audio communication session exceeds a disconnect distance. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the center of mass of the audio communication session is determined as a mid-point between the Avatars representing the group of participants to the audio communication session. 3. A method of managing an audio communication session between a group of participants in a virtual environment, each of the group of participants being represented in the virtual environment by at least one Avatar, the method comprising the steps of: determining a center of mass of the audio communication session according to locations of the Avatars representing each of the group of participants to the audio communication session within the virtual environment; and causing the center of mass of the audio communication session to adjust according to movement of any of the Avatars representing the group of participants to the audio communication session as the Avatars representing the group of participants to the audio communication session move within the virtual environment; wherein a connect distance is used to determine whether a new participant may join the audio communication session, the connect distance being calculated as a distance between the center of mass of the audio communication session and an Avatar representing the new participant in the virtual environment; and wherein if Avatar representing the new participant is closer than the connect distance to the center of mass of the audio communication session, the new participant is allowed to manually connect to the communication session, and if the new participant is closer than a second connect distance to the center of mass of the audio communication session, the new participant is automatically connected to the communication session. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein a participant to the audio communication session may be disconnected from the audio communication session if a distance between an Avatar associated with the participant and the center of mass of the audio communication session exceeds a disconnect distance. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein if Avatar representing the new participant is closer than the connect distance to the center of mass of the audio communication session, the new participant is automatically connected to the audio communication session. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein if Avatar representing the new participant is closer than the connect distance to the center of mass of the audio communication session, the new participant is allowed to manually connect to the audio communication session. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the group of participants to the audio communication session may prevent the user from manually connecting to the communication session. 8. The method of claim 3, wherein the group of participants to the audio communication session may prevent the user from manually connecting to the audio communication session. 9. The method of claim 3, wherein the connect distance increases as the number of participants increases. 10. The method of claim 4, wherein if the Avatar representing exceeds the disconnect distance from the center of mass of the audio communication session, the participant represented by the Avatar is automatically disconnected from the audio communication session. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the disconnect distance is greater than the connect distance. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the connect distance and disconnect distance increase as the number of participants in the audio communication session increases. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the connect distance and disconnect distance are adjusted based on how populated the virtual environment is and the number of participants in the group of participants to the audio communication session. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the audio communication session further comprises directional environmental audio overlayed on the communication session from a virtual environmental audio source in the virtual environment. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein one or more of the participants to the audio communication session can elect to not hear the environmental audio. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the participants to the audio communication session individually elect whether an audio stream presented to the individual participant will include the environmental audio. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the center of mass of the audio communication session is a logical center of the communication session and wherein the group of participants includes three or more participants. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the center of mass of the audio communication session is represented in the virtual environment by a visible dot or other visible indicia. 