A cross member bumper beam and method of making it are disclosed. The cross member bumper beam is attached to the frame rails of a vehicle. The beam is made of first and second materials that are bonded together with an adhesive. The first step of the method is to form a cross member from the first material. The cross member has a channel shape, with at least one bent return first edge portion. The bent return first edge portion includes a latch portion. The second step of the method is to attach the cross member to the frame rails of the vehicle. The channel shape of the cross member is oriented generally away from the frame rails and exposes the bent first edge portion. The third step of the method is to form a bumper facebar from the second material. The bumper facebar also has a channel shape with at least one bent return second edge portion. The bent return second edge portion includes an attachment portion. The fourth step of the methods is to position the bumper facebar so that the channel shape of the bumper facebar opens in a direction generally opposite to the channel shape of the cross member. The fifth step of the method is to apply the adhesive to at least one of the first and second edge portions. The sixth step of the method is to affix the first and second edge portions for bonding with the adhesive by engaging the attachment portion of the bumper facebar with the latch portion of the cross member.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of making a cross member bumper beam that can be attached to the frame rails of a vehicle, with the beam being made of first and second materials that are bonded together with an adhesive, the method comprising the steps of: forming a cross member from the first material, the cross member having a channel shape having at least one bent return first edge portion which includes a latch portion; attaching the cross member to the frame rails of the vehicle so that the channel shape of the cross member is oriented generally away from the frame rails while exposing the bent first edge portion; forming a bumper facebar from the second material, the bumper facebar having a channel shape and having at least one bent return second edge portion which includes an attachment portion; positioning the bumper facebar so that the channel shape of the bumper facebar opens in a direction generally opposite to the channel shape of the cross member; applying the adhesive to at least one of the first and second edge portions; and affixing the first and second edge portions for bonding with the adhesive by engaging the attachment portion of the bumper facebar with the latch portion of the cross member. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first material is metal and the second material is not metal. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of forming the cross member with at least one bent return first edge portion further comprises forming exactly two bent return first edge portions. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the step of forming the bumper facebar with at least one bent return second edge portion further comprises forming exactly two bent return second edge portions. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of affixing the first and second edge portions for bonding with the adhesive further comprises holding the first and second edge portions together in compression to allow the adhesive to cure and thereby bond the cross member to the bumper facebar. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the step of holding the first and second edge portions together in compression further comprises snapping the latch portion to the attachment portion. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of snapping the latch portion to the attachment portion further comprises snapping the latch portion to the attachment portion along the neutral axis between the cross member and the bumper facebar. 8. The method of claim 2, wherein the non-metallic material is a fiberglass reinforced plastic material ("FRP"). 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the FRP is constructed with the fibers all oriented in a particular direction to give the bumper facebar strength along a desired axis. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the FRP is constructed of multiple layers of fibers with the fibers in each layer oriented in a specified manner to give the bumper facebar strength along several axes. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of fixing the first and second edge portions for bonding with the adhesive includes using a urethane or epoxy adhesive. 12. The method of claim 1, including the further step of adding an energy absorber to the bumper facebar on the side of the bumper facebar that is opposite to the direction in which the channel of the bumper facebar opens. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the energy absorber is constructed of polypropylene or urethane foam. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the energy absorber contains a hollow cavity to enhance the energy absorbing characteristics of the energy absorber. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the energy absorber is constructed as a honeycomb. 16. The method of claim 12, including the further step of adding a fascia cover to the energy absorber on the side of the cross member bumper beam that is oriented away from the side frame rails of the vehicle. 17. A cross member bumper beam that can be attached to the frame rails of a vehicle, with the beam being made of first and second materials, the beam comprising: a cross member formed from the first material for attachment to the frame rails of the vehicle, the cross member having a channel shape having at least one bent return first edge portion which includes a latch portion, the channel shape being oriented generally away from the frame rails of the vehicle while exposing the bent first edge portion; a bumper facebar formed from the second material having a channel shape having at least one bent return second edge portion which includes a latch portion, the bumper facebar being oriented so that its channel shape opens in a direction generally opposite to the channel shape of the cross member; and adhesive located between and contacting the first and second edge portions to bond the bumper facebar to the cross member when the latch portion is snapped to the attachment portion to hold the bumper facebar to the cross member while the adhesive cures. 18. The cross member bumper beam of claim 17, wherein the first material is metal and the second material is not metal. 19. The cross member bumper beam of claim 18, wherein the cross member has exactly two bent return first edge portions. 20. The cross member bumper beam of claim 19, wherein the bumper facebar has exactly two bent return second edge portions. 21. The cross member bumper beam of claim 20, wherein the non-metallic material is a fiberglass reinforced plastic material ("FRP"). 22. The cross member bumper beam of claim 21, wherein the FRP is constructed with the fibers all oriented in a particular direction to give the bumper facebar strength along a desired axis. 23. The cross member bumper beam of claim 21, wherein the FRP is constructed of multiple layers of fibers with the fibers in each layer oriented in a specified manner to give the bumper facebar strength along several axis. 24. The cross member bumper beam of claim 17, further comprising an energy absorber attached to the bumper facebar on the side of the bumper facebar that is opposite to the direction in which the channel of the bumper facebar opens. 25. The cross member bumper beam of claim 24, wherein the energy absorber is constructed of polypropylene or urethane foam. 26. The cross member bumper beam of claim 25, wherein the energy absorber contains a hollow cavity to enhance the energy absorbing characteristics of the energy absorber. 27. The cross member bumper beam of claim 25, wherein the energy absorber is constructed as a honeycomb. 28. The cross member bumper beam of claim 25, further comprising a fascia cover attached to the energy absorber on the side of the cross member bumper beam that is oriented away from the side frame rails of the vehicle. 29. A method of making a cross member bumper beam that can be attached to the frame rails of a vehicle, with the beam being made of first and second materials that are bonded together with an adhesive, the method comprising the steps of: forming a cross member from the first material having an upper bent return first edge portion and a lower bent return first edge portion, each first edge portion extending generally transversely of the frame rails and including a respective latch portion; attaching the cross member to the frame rails of the vehicle while exposing the first upper edge portions above the frame rails and exposing the lower first edge portion below the frame rails; forming a bumper facebar from the second material, the bumper facebar having an upper bent return second edge portion and a lower bent return second edge portion, each second edge portion extending generally transversely of the frame rails and including a respective attachment portion; at least one of the cross member and bumper facebar being channel-shaped in cross-section; positioning the bumper facebar so that the channel shape of said at least one of the cross member and bumper facebar opens in a direction generally opposite to the other of the cross member and bumper facebar; applying the adhesive to at least one of the first and second edge portions; and affixing the first and second edge portions for bonding with the adhesive by engaging the attachment portion of the bumper facebar with the latch portion of the cross member, thereby providing a structurally unified composite bumper beam having a cavity in cross-section as provided by the channel-shaped member and extending transversely between the frame rails to thus provide a bumper beam highly resistant to bending. 