A system for automatically compensating for inaccuracies of a robot in all degrees of freedom. The system includes moving a measuring body held by the robot gripper in response to a command representative of a previously determined nominal position within a measuring fixture known to the robot controller, determining by means of sensing means differences between pairs of sensed values and using said difference values to iteratively compensate for the error in respective angular coordinate direction .beta., .alpha. and .gamma. and thereafter using the received pairs of equal sensor values to iteratively compensate for the error in respective orthogonal coordinate direction x, y and z. Alternatively, the errors in respective coordinate directions .beta., .alpha., .gamma., x, y and z may be successively calculated and the calculated error values used to successively compensate for the errors in the associated coordinate directions.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for automatically compensating for positioning errors of a robot gripper in all degrees of freedom in a robot or like system, characterized by the steps of grasping a measuring device at a predetermined reference point with the robot gripper so that a predetermined gripper reference point aligns with said predetermined measuring device reference point; moving said measuring device held by the robot gripper in response to a command representative of a predetermined nominal position within a measuring fixture known to the robot controller; determining, by actual measurement by means of a plurality of pair of sensors the difference between sensor values of a first pair of sensors and using this difference between sensor values of a first pair of sensors for moving the robot gripper in order to compensate for an error in an associated first angular coordinate direction; thereby reducing the difference between sensor values of the first pair of sensors until the sensor values are equal; successively repeating the determining step using each difference between sensor values of successive pairs of sensors in order to compensate for errors in respective associated angular coordinate directions, thereby reducing the difference between sensor values of successive pairs of sensors until the respective sensor values are equal comparing the equal sensor values of said first pair of sensors with a first nominal value representative of said predetermined nominal position of the measuring device, using the difference value obtained by said comparing step for moving the robot gripper in order to compensate for an error in an associated first orthogonal coordinate direction, successively repeating said comparing and said using steps using each equal sensor values of successive pairs of sensors in order to compensate for errors in respective associated orthogonal coordinate directions. 2. A system according to claim 1, characterized in that said measuring device consists of a number of surfaces, the positions of which are exactly defined in relation to the gripper. 3. A system according to claim 2, characterized in that the surfaces are perpendicular to each other. 4. A system according to claim 1, characterized in that the measuring device is in the form of three cube surfaces and is held by the gripper so that the gripper definition point coincides with the cube central point. 5. A system according to claim 4, characterized in that the measuring device is provided with an intermediate wall having a guiding profile for guiding the cube definition point to coincide with the gripper definition point. 6. A system according to claim 1, characterized in that the measuring fixture consists of a number of surfaces, the positions of which are exactly defined in relation to the robot coordinate system, the surfaces being provided with said pairs of sensors in a predetermined pattern. 7. A system according to claim 6, characterized in that the surfaces are perpendicular to each other. 8. A system according to claim 6, characterized in that the measuring fixture is in the form of three surfaces of a cube. 9. A system according to claim 8, characterized in that the distribution of said pairs of sensors are two in a first cube surface, two in a second cube surface and two in a third cube surface. 10. A system according to claim 1, characterized in that said difference between sensor values are used to iteratively compensate for the error in respective coordinate direction .beta., .alpha., .gamma., x, y, z. 11. A system according to claim 1, characterized in that said difference between sensor values are used to calculate the errors in respective coordinate directions (.beta., .alpha., .gamma., x, y, z) and in that the robot gripper is moved in order to successively compensate for the calculated errors in respective coordinate directions. 