Described here is an automated robotic device that isolates circulating tumor cells (CTCs) or other biological structures with extremely high purity. The device uses powerful magnetic rods covered in removable plastic sleeves. These rods sweep through blood samples, capturing, e.g., cancer cells labeled with antibodies linked to magnetically responsive particles such as superparamagnetic beads. Upon completion of the capturing protocol, the magnetic rods undergo several rounds of washing, thereby removing all contaminating blood cells. The captured target cells are released into a final capture solution by removing the magnetic rods from the sleeves. Additionally, cells captured by this device show no reduced viability when cultured after capture. Cells are captured in a state suitable for genetic analysis. Also disclosed are methods for single cell analysis. Being robotic allows the device to be operated with high throughput.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for capturing and isolating cells comprising: (a) mixing a sample comprising rare target cells and contaminant cells with magnetically responsive particles having an affinity to the rare target cells to produce a sample solution having magnetically responsive particles bound to rare target cells; (b) contacting a magnetic member having a non-adherent sleeve with the sample solution; (c) producing a continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution while the magnetic member produces a magnetic field across the non-adherent sleeve, such that the magnetically responsive particles bound to rare target cells are selectively captured onto the non-adherent sleeve and wherein the continuous relative motion is applied in concentric circles such that a majority of the sample solution has access to the magnetic member; (d) contacting the magnetic member having the captured rare target cells with a recovery solution; (e) substantially removing the magnetic field produced by the member across the non-adherent sleeve whereby the magnetically responsive particles bound to rare target cells are released into the recovery fluid. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the non-adherent sleeve comprises a sleeve over the magnetic member, and step (e) of substantially removing magnetic field across the non-adherent sleeve comprises removing the magnetic member from at least a portion of the sleeve. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the magnetic member comprises an electromagnet, and step (e) of substantially removing the magnetic field across the non-adherent sleeve comprises de-magnetizing the electromagnet. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the magnetic member is held stationary in a fluid flow channel and the continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution is produced by flowing the sample solution past the magnetic member. 5. The method of claim 1 where the continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution produces a velocity in the non-turbulent flow regime. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution has a Reynolds number of 0.1 to 100. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution has velocity of 0.1 mm/sec to 1 mm/sec. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the magnetic member has a surface field strength of 0.2 Tesla to 1 Tesla. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the magnetic member has a surface field strength of 0.2 Tesla to 1 Tesla and the continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution has velocity of 0.1 mm/sec to 1 mm/sec. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the non-adherent sleeve comprises a polymer selected from the group consisting of vinyl, chlorofluorocarbon polymers and silicone. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the non-adherent sleeve comprises polyvinyl chloride (PVC). 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising contacting the magnetic member, having captured rare target cells, with a wash fluid after step (c). 13. A method for capture and isolation of intact, rare target cells in a sample having a mixed cell population of target cells and contaminant cells, wherein the target cells are labeled with magnetically responsive material to form labeled target cells, comprising: (a) labeling the sample with a label specific for target cells, said label being magnetically responsive, to form a labeled sample; (b) contacting the labeled sample with a member extending into the sample and comprising a strong magnet covered by a nonmagnetic, nonadherent sleeve; (c) sweeping the member in a continuous motion through the sample to cause cells to attach to the sleeve wherein the sweeping is orbital; (d) washing the sleeve with cells attached to remove unlabeled cells into a cell free solution; (e) separating the magnet from the sleeve, whereby labeled cells are removed from the sleeve; and (f) collecting labeled cells to form a composition comprising beads and labeled cells. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of isolating a single labeled cell from the beads. 15. The method of claim 13 where the label is an antibody against an cell surface marker selected from the group consisting of HLA, EpCAM, CD44, and CD96. 16. The method of claim 13 where the sample is human peripheral blood. 17. The method of claim 13 where the target cells are CTCs. 18. The method of claim 13 where the strong magnet is a rare earth magnet having an axial dipole whereby magnetic particles are concentrated at one elongated end of the magnet. 19. The method of claim 13 wherein the nonadherent sleeve is a polymer. 20. The method of claim 13 wherein the polymer is a polymer selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl chloride, chlorofluorocarbon polymers or silicone. 21. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of applying a magnetic field opposite the sleeve after the magnet has been removed to assist in removing labeled cells from the sleeve. 22. The method of claim 13 further comprising multiple washing steps as recited in step (d). 23. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of extracting intact genetic material from isolated target cells. 24. The method of claim 13 further comprising the step of testing for expression of certain genes in extracted genetic material. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the genes are selected from the group consisting of GAPDH Beta Actin, Big ribosome protein (RPLPO), CRYAB, EGFR, FOXA1, CD44, ESR1 (ER) PGR (PR), and mutated forms of Myc, Ras, BRCA1, BRCA2, APC, and p53. 26. The method of claim 24 comprising the testing for the expression of vimentin, where increased expression of vimentin indicates a mesenchymal CTC. 27. The method of claim 1 wherein the magnetic member produces a magnetic field across a non-adherent sleeve which is a polymer through which the magnetic field is transmitted. 28. A method for capturing and isolating cells comprising: (a) mixing a sample comprising rare target cells and contaminant cells with magnetically responsive particles having an affinity to the rare target cells to produce a sample solution having magnetically responsive particles bound to rare target cells; (b) contacting a magnetic member having a non-adherent sleeve with the sample solution; (c) producing a continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution while the magnetic member produces a magnetic field across the non-adherent sleeve, such that the magnetically responsive particles bound to rare target cells are selectively captured onto the non-adherent sleeve and wherein said continuous relative motion is orbital; (d) contacting the magnetic member having the captured rare target cells with a recovery solution; (e) substantially removing the magnetic field produced by the member across the non-adherent sleeve whereby the magnetically responsive particles bound to rare target cells are released into the recovery fluid. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the non-adherent sleeve comprises a sleeve over the magnetic member, and step (e) of substantially removing magnetic field across the non-adherent sleeve comprises removing the magnetic member from at least a portion of the sleeve. 30. The method of claim 28 wherein the magnetic member comprises an electromagnet, and step (e) of substantially removing the magnetic field across the non-adherent sleeve comprises de-magnetizing the electromagnet. 31. The method of claim 28 wherein the magnetic member is held stationary in a fluid flow channel and the continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution is produced by flowing the sample solution past the magnetic member. 32. The method of claim 28 where the continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution produces a velocity in the non-turbulent flow regime. 33. The method of claim 28 wherein the continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution has a Reynolds number of 0.1 to 100. 34. The method of claim 28 wherein the continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution has velocity of 0.1 mm/sec to 1 mm/sec. 35. The method of claim 28 wherein the magnetic member has a surface field strength of 0.2 Tesla to 1 Tesla. 36. The method of claim 28 wherein the magnetic member has a surface field strength of 0.2 Tesla to 1 Tesla and the continuous relative motion between the magnetic member and the sample solution has velocity of 0.1 mm/sec to 1 mm/sec. 37. The method of claim 28 wherein the continuous relative motion is applied such that a majority of the sample solution has access to the magnetic member. 38. The method of claim 28 wherein the non-adherent sleeve comprises a polymer selected from the group consisting of vinyl, chlorofluorocarbon polymers and silicone. 39. The method of claim 28 wherein the non-adherent sleeve comprises polyvinyl chloride (PVC). 40. The method of claim 28 further comprising contacting the magnetic member, having captured rare target cells, with a wash fluid after step (c). 41. The method of claim 28 wherein the magnetic member produces a magnetic field across a non-adherent sleeve which is a polymer through which the magnetic field is transmitted. 