A robot serviced space facility includes multiple modules which are identical in physical structure, but selectively differing in function and purpose. Each module includes multiple like attachment points which are identically placed on each module so as to permit interconnection with immediately adjacent modules. Connection is made through like outwardly extending flange assemblies having identical male and female configurations for interconnecting to and locking to a complementary side of another flange. Multiple rows of interconnected modules permit force, fluid, data and power transfer to be accomplished by redundant circuit paths. Redundant modules of critical subsystems are included. Redundancy of modules and of interconnections results in a space complex with any module being removable upon demand, either for module replacement or facility reconfiguration, without eliminating any vital functions of the complex. Module replacement and facility assembly or reconfiguration are accomplished by a computer controlled articulated walker type robotic manipulator arm assembly having two identical end-effectors in the form of male configurations which are identical to those on module flanges and which interconnect to female configurations on other flanges. The robotic arm assembly moves along a connected set or modules by successively disconnecting, moving and reconnecting alternate ends of itself to a succession of flanges in a walking type maneuver. To transport a module, the robot keeps the transported module attached to one of its end-effectors and uses another flange male configuraiton of the attached module as a substitute end-effector during walking.
Claims I claim: 1. A robot serviced space facility capable of self-reconfiguration, comprising: a plurality of modules for performing predetermined functions at said facility, said modules each having a plurality of attachment means on an outer surface thereof, each said attachment means being comprised of first and second type complementary coupling apparatus whereby said first type apparatus on one of said modules couples to said second type apparatus of another of said modules to provide a transfer path between said modules for all structural loads, electrical power, data, fluids and the like, wherein said facility is comprised of said modules arranged in multiple interconnection rows to provide redundant critical modules and transfer paths so that any one said module of the facility can be removed without causing the loss of any vital functions of the facility, at least one robotic type manipulator apparatus comprised of at least first and second articulated members each including outer end sections having coupling apparatus compatible with one of said first and second types coupling apparatus of said modules for selective controlled attachment thereto, said manipulator apparatus being controlled so as to move in a walking type motion from one said module to another in a succession of alternate end section couplings to perform a predetermined task, said task including reconfiguring the space facility by detaching, transporting and attaching said modules without the need for assistance of control by local or remote human intervention, said attachment means comprises an outwardly extending flange assembly, and each said flange assembly comprises a two sided assembly having male type coupling means on one side and female coupling means on the other side. 2. The space facility of claim 1 wherein all of said modules comprise like shaped modules. 3. The space facility of claim 2 wherein said attachment means on each said module are regularly spaced. 4. The space facility of claim 1 wherein said first type coupling apparatus includes male type coupling means and said second coupling apparatus includes female type coupling means. 5. The space facility of claim 1 wherein said first and second articulated members are comprised of elongated arm members. 6. The space facility of claim 5 wherein said arm member includes common joint means having a single degree of freedom and wherein each of said outer end sections thereof include respective joint means having three degrees of freedom. 7. The space facility of claim 1 wherein said modules have internal computer controlled cutoffs so that paths taken by power, data and fluids can be controlled. 8. The space facility of claim 7 wherein the robotic manipulator apparatus includes two male type coupling means at one end so that walking between said modules can be accomplished without having to repeatedly connect and disconnect a transport module. 9. The space facility of claim 7 wherein at least one of said modules includes power thruster means for being used as an interplanetary spaceship. 10. The space facility of claim 1 wherein said compatible coupling apparatus of said manipulator selectively comprises male and female type coupling apparatus. 11. The space facility of claim 10 wherein each said male and female type coupling means additionally include complementary type fluid and electrical connector means for providing fluid paths and electrical power and signal paths between said modules and also said manipulator apparatus. 12. The space facility of claim 10 wherein each said male and female type coupling means additionally include mutually complementary abutment means. 13. The space facility of claim 10 wherein each said male type coupling means includes a locking pin roller assembly located thereon, said female type coupling means includes a pair of spaced apart locking pin roller assemblies located so as to straddle the locking pin roller assembly of said male type coupling means when said coupling means are positioned mutually adjacent each other, and said male type coupling means further includes a motor driven locking pin located adjacent to said locking pin assemblies and being operable to pass therethrough when energized to lock a pair of said coupling means in mutual engagement. 14. The space facility of claim 13 wherein said male type coupling means includes a first type fluid and electrical connector moved by said motor driven locking pin, and said female type coupling means includes a second type fluid and electrical connector mounted adjacent said pair of locking pin roller assemblies, said fluid and electrical connectors being brought together in contact when said motor driven locking pin is energized for providing fluid and electrical power and signal paths between modules. 15. The space facility of claim 10 wherein each said male and female type coupling means include mutually complementary alignment means. 16. The space facility of claim 15 wherein said alignment means includes an alignment target on one of said male and female type coupling means, and TV camera means on the other of said male and female type coupling means, and said alignment means also includes a six axis force torque sensor and electrical contacts on said male side locking pin roller assembly and contact pins between the spaced apart rollers of said female type coupling to close the electrical contacts. 17. The space facility of claim 10 wherein said plurality of flange assemblies comprises at least four flange assemblies orthogonally located on said outer surface of said modules. 18. The space facility of claim 17 wherein said four orthogonal flange assemblies are located at one end of said modules. 19. The space facility of claim 18 wherein the module includes a plurality of submodules attachable and detachable by a robot. 20. The space facility of claim 10 wherein said plurality of flange assemblies comprise equally spaced flange assemblies on said outer surface of said modules substantially midway of their length dimension. 21. The space facility of claim 10 wherein said modules include a pair of end surfaces having at least one flange assembly located on said end surfaces. 22. The space facility of claim 10 wherein said plurality of modules are arranged in at least a double row configuration. 23. The space facility of claim 22 wherein said plurality of modules include redundant pairs of predetermined types of control modules. 24. The space facility of claim 22 wherein one of said plurality of modules includes programmable computer apparatus for controlling said manipulator apparatus to perform said predetermined task. 25. The space facility of claim 22 wherein one of said plurality of modules includes a docking port having means being operable to mate and demate with a launch vehicle having a complementary docking fixture and capable of carrying a module from or to the ground. 26. The space facility of claim 25 wherein the launch vehicle carries a robot containing a module and permits the robot to exit the module after docking, attach itself to said space facility, transport said module form the launch vehicle to the space facility, and perform said operations in reverse so that the module and its contained robot transfer from the space facility to the docked vehicle top stage. 27. The space facility of claim 22 wherein one of said plurality of modules includes a module having containment means for a robot, out of which and into which said robot can transport itself. 28. The space facility of claim 27 wherein the robot transfers modules to and from the docked launch vehicle. 29. The space facility of claim 22 wherein one of the modules includes specialized end-effectors for the robot. 30. The space facility of claim 22 wherein the robot itself includes means interconnected by male and female type coupling means whereby one robot can replace the parts of a second robot. 31. The space facility of claim 10 wherein said plurality of flange assemblies comprises flange assemblies on modules and nodes including internal human passageways and means required to support human habitation. 32. The space facility of claim 31 wherein said modules and nodes can be attached to one another by a robot to create a manned space facility with interconnecting human passageways sealed from the outside environment and with transfer of power, data, fluids, and forces through all modules and nodes. 33. The space facility of claim 32 wherein the robot can also detach and transfer the modules and nodes about the facility as well as to and from a docked launch vehicle. 34. The space facility of claim 33 wherein said manipulator apparatus include foot type end-effectors so that the space facility can function as a fixed or mobile station on the surface of a planetary body. 