A new apparatus for processing substrates is disclosed. A multi-level load lock chamber having four environmentally isolated chambers interfaces with a transfer chamber that has a robotic assembly. The robotic assembly has two arms that each can move horizontally as the robotic assembly rotates about its axis. The arms can reach into the isolated chambers of the load lock to receive substrates from the bottom isolated chambers, transport the substrates to process chambers, and then place the substrates in the upper chambers. The isolated chambers in the load lock chamber may have a pivotably attached lid that may be opened to access the inside of the isolated chambers.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: positioning two substrates within a load lock chamber body, wherein the substrates are positioned within first and second chambers that are within the load lock chamber body, wherein the first and second chambers lie in a laterally spaced relation, and wherein the load lock chamber body is coupled with an integrated processing tool; removing the substrates from the load lock chamber body and positioning the substrates in the integrated processing tool; processing the substrates; re-positioning the substrates within the load lock chamber body, wherein the substrates are positioned within third and fourth chambers that are within the load lock chamber body, wherein the third and fourth chambers lie in a laterally spaced relation and at an elevation above the first and second chambers, and wherein the first, second, third, and fourth chambers are environmentally isolated from each other during processing; and monitoring conditions of the substrates within the first, second, third, and fourth chambers, wherein the monitoring comprises monitoring the conditions through transmissive chamber lids. 2. A method of servicing a load lock chamber, comprising: unlocking a lid locking mechanism that couples a lower chamber lid to a load lock chamber body; pivoting the lower chamber lid away from the body; removing an upper chamber lid coupled to an upper chamber of the load lock body; and servicing the load lock chamber, wherein a substrate support device is coupled to and movable with the lower chamber lid. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the substrate support device is a lift pin actuator. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the substrate support device is a substrate support pedestal. 