A self-configuring robotic system and method are disclosed. The system employs a computer having a central processing unit and an operating system containing at least a nucleus, a sequence reprogrammer and task support services. A robotic device and at least one defined task performing device, which may be another robotic device, are used in the system. Each device has a corresponding module that is electrically connected to the device and provides all of the intelligence for the particular device. Each module also provides a control block flag and a starting offset for the computer. The modules are electrically connected to the computer through a plurality of physically separable electrical connections so that all of the intelligence for the devices is on the device side of the associated physically separable electrical connections.
Claims What we claim and desire to secure by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a robotic device means; a first module means for providing all of the intelligence for said robotic device means, said module means being electrically connected to said robotic device means; computer means; a first physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said first module means so that all of the intelligence for the robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the physical interface means; means for performing a defined task; a second, different, module means for providing all of the intelligence for said defined task performing means, said module means being electrically connected to said defined task performing means; and, a second physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said second module means so that all of the intelligence for the defined task performing means is located on the defined task performing means side of the physical interface means. 2. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein said physical interface means provides separable electrical connections between said computer means and said module means for at least data, address, and read and write. 3. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein said module means further comprises means for providing a control block flag and starting offset for said computer means and means for providing an input/output interface between the computer means and said robotic device means. 4. A robotic system comprising: a plurality of robotic device means; a corresponding plurality of different module means with module means providing all of the intelligence for corresponding different robotic device means, and being electrically connected thereto; computer means; and, a corresponding plurality of physical interface means each providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and the corresponding module means so that all of the intelligence for each robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the associated physical interface means. 5. The robotic system of claim 4 wherein each said physical interface means provides separable electrical connections between said computer means and the corresponding module means for at least data, address and read and write. 6. The robotic system of claim 5 wherein each said module means further comprises means for providing a control block flag and starting offset for said computer means and means for providing an input/output interface between the computer means and the corresponding robotic device means. 7. A self-configuring robotic system comprising: computer means having a central processing unit and an operating system that contains at least a nucleus, a sequence reprogrammer and task support services; a plurality of different robotic device means: a corresponding plurality of different module means with each module means providing all of the intelligence for a corresponding robotic device means and being electrically connected to said corresponding robotic device, each said module means having means for providing a control block flag and starting offset for said computer means and means for providing an input/output interface between the computer means and the corresponding robotic device means; and, a corresponding plurality of physical interface means each providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and each of such corresponding module means so that all of the intelligence for each robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the associated physical interface means. 8. A self-configuring robotic system comprising: computer means having a central processing unit and an operating system that contains at least a nucleus, a sequence reprogrammer and task support services; a robotic device means; a first module means providing all of the intelligence for said robotic device means and being electrically connected to said robotic device, said module means having means for providing a control block flag and starting offset for said computer means and means for providing an input/output interface between the computer means and said robotic device means; a first physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said module means so that all of the intelligence for the robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the physical interface means; means for performing a defined task; a second and different module means providing all of the intelligence for said defined task performing means and being electrically connected thereto, said second module means having means for providing a control block flag and starting offset for said computer means and means for providing an input/output interface between the computer means and said defined task performing means; a second physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said second module means so that all of the intelligence for the defined task performing means is located on the defined task performing means side of the physical interface means. 9. A method for self-configuring a robotic system that comprises: a robotic device means; a first module means for providing all of the intelligence for said robotic device means, said module means being electrically connected to said robotic device means; computer means having a central processing unit and an operating system that contains at least a nucleus, a sequence reprogrammer and task support services; a first physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said first module means so that all of the intelligence for the robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the physical interface means; a task device means for performing a defined task; a second module means for providing all of the intelligence for said defined task performing device means, said module means being electrically connected to said defined task performing device means; and, a second physical interface means for providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and said second module means so that all of the intelligence for the defined task performing device means is located on the defined task performing device means side of the physical interface means; said method comprising the steps of: 1. searching for and finding the control block flag in one of the module means; 2. creating an initialization task in response to finding the control block flag in said one of the module means; 3. starting said initialization task; 4. initializing the associated device means from the intelligence contained in said one module means; and, 5. repeating steps 1 through 4 for the other module means and its associated device means. 10. A method for self-configuring a robotic system that comprises: a plurality of robotic device means; a corresponding plurality of module means with each module means providing all of the intelligence for the corresponding robotic device means, and being electrically connected thereto; computer means having a central processing unit and an operating system that contains at least a nucleus, a sequence reprogrammer and task support services; and, a corresponding plurality of physical interface means each providing a plurality of separable electrical connections between said computer means and the corresponding module means so that all of the intelligence for each robotic device means is located on the robotic device means side of the associated physical interface means; said method comprising the steps of: 1. searching for and finding the control block flag in one of the module means; 2. creating an initialization task in response to finding the control block flag in said one of the module means; 3. starting said initialization task; 4. initializing the associated robotic device means from the intelligence contained in said one module means; and, 5. repeating steps 1 through 4 for each one of the other robotic device means until the plurality of robotic device means has been initialized. 