One aspect relates to defibrillating an individual potentially in an absence of any human assistance including that from the individual. Another aspect relates to positioning an electrode in electrical proximity to an individual when the individual is in an unusual defibrillating position; and applying a defibrillating charge to the individual at least partially via the electrode when the individual is in the unusual defibrillating position. Yet another aspect relates to securing at least one defibrillating electrode outside of a material associated with an individual relative to the individual; and extending at least one extensible electric contact(s) from the at least one defibrillating electrode through the material into an electric contact with at least a portion of the individual.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An electrode positioning defibrillator apparatus, comprising: a defibrillator apparatus including a housing having wheels physically coupled onto exterior opposing surfaces, the housing enclosing a capacitor operably coupled to a first and a second defibrillation electrode, a battery for charging the capacitor sufficiently to establish a defibrillating charge, and a processor configured to control delivery of the defibrillating charge to an individual; an individual mover component including a wedge-shaped surface attached to a distal end of the housing with the first defibrillation electrode integrated onto an inclined surface of the wedge-shaped surface; and a linkage having a proximal and distal end with the distal end coupled to the second defibrillation electrode and the proximal end coupled to a top surface of the housing, the linkage electromechanically moveable relative to the housing between at least a first position and a second position. 2. The electrode positioning defibrillator apparatus of claim 1, wherein the linkage is configured to electromechanically extend, retract, or telescope between the at least first position and the second position. 3. The electrode positioning defibrillator apparatus of claim 1, wherein the linkage is configured to electromechanically telescope between the at least first position and the second position. 4. The electrode positioning defibrillator apparatus of claim 1, wherein the linkage is extendable or retractable between the at least first position and the second position. 5. The electrode positioning defibrillator apparatus of claim 1, wherein the linkage is configured to extend, retract, or telescope, via a telescoping member, between the at least first position and the second position. 6. The electrode positioning defibrillator apparatus of claim 1, wherein the wedge-shaped surface is sized to reposition the individual by rolling over the individual. 