The method and apparatus of the present invention permit the accurate sensing of the height of a solder nozzle above a circuit board during operation of the solder nozzle. A non-contact limit switch, which provides an indication of the presence of a planar surface at a preselected proximity, is mounted in a fixed relationship with a solder nozzle which is manipulatable by means of a robotic arm. A reference surface is provided which includes a proximity sensor, such as a through beam fiber optic switch. The proximity sensor is mounted a predetermined distance above the reference surface and is utilized to detect the solder nozzle as it is moved toward the reference surface. By noting the position coordinates of the robotic arm at which the proximity sensor indicates the presence of the solder nozzle at the predetermined distance above the reference surface, and the position of the robotic arm at which the non-contact limit switch closes in response to the proximity of the reference surface, it is possible to accurately calculate a calibration offset value which may be utilized in conjunction with the output of the non-contact limit switch to precisely position the solder nozzle at a desired distance above a circuit board.
Claims I claim: 1. A tool height sensing apparatus for utilization in a system having a tool mounted to a manipulatable robotic arm and adapted to be urged forward toward the surface of a planar member, said apparatus comprising: a non-contact limit switch adapted to generate an indication when said limit switch is brought into a preselected proximity to a planar member; means for mounting said non-contact limit switch in a fixed relationship with said tool; a reference surface having a proximity sensor mounted a fixed distance above said reference surface, said proximity sensor for generating a reference signal in response to the presence of said tool at said fixed distance above said reference surface; manipulator means for urging said tool toward said reference surface; and control means coupled to said manipulator means, said proximity sensor and said non-contact limit switch for generating a calibration offset value for utilization in adjusting the height of said tool above a planar member utilizing said non-contact limit switch, wherein variations in said fixed relationship between said non-contact limit switch and said tool may be accommodated. 2. The tool height sensing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said non-contact limit switch comprises a pneumatic-electric switch. 3. The tool height sensing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said pneumatic-electric switch includes means for directing a gaseous flow at a planar member and means for detecting a variation in the pressure of said gaseous flow in response to said pneumatic-electric switch being brought into said preselected proximity to said planar member. 4. The tool height sensing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said means for mounting said non-contact limit switch comprises a bracket mounted to said tool wherein said non-contact limit switch is fixedly mounted in a parallel relationship with said tool. 5. The tool height sensing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said tool comprises a solder nozzle adapted to dispense heated solder onto the surface of said planar member. 6. The tool height sensing apparatus according to claim 5, further including means for heating said solder nozzle prior to urging said solder nozzle toward said reference surface wherein solder nozzle position errors induced as a result of thermal expansion during operation of said system are substantially eliminated. 7. The tool height sensing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said proximity sensor comprises a through beam fiber optic switch disposed within a semi-circular mount. 8. The tool height sensing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said manipulator means repeatedly urges said tool toward said reference surface and wherein said control means includes means for calculating an average calibration offset value. 