A magnetostrictive drive motor having a rotary drive shaft in the form of a drum which is encircled by a plurality of substantially equally spaced roller members in the form of two sets of cones which are in contact with respective cam surfaces on the inside surface of an outer drive ring. The drive ring is attached to sets of opposing pairs of magnetostrictive rods. Each rod in a pair are mutually positioned end to end within respective energizing coils. When one of the coils in an opposing pair is energized, the energized rod expands while the other rod is caused to contract, causing the drive ring to rock, i.e. rotate slightly in either the clockwise or counterclockwise direction, depending upon which rod in a pair is energized. As the drive ring is activated in repetitive cycles in either direction, one set of drive cones attempt to roll up their respective cam surface but are pinned between the drive shaft drum and the drive ring. As the frictional force preventing sliding builds up, the cones become locked, setting up reaction forces including a tangential component which is imparted to the drive shaft drum to provide a source of motor torque. Simultaneously the other set of cones are disengaged from the drive shaft drum. By repetitively cycling the energization of the magnetostrictive rods, the drive shaft drum indexes in microradian rotational steps.
Claims I claim: 1. A magnetostrictive drive motor, comprising: a drive shaft drum of circular cross section; a drive ring encircling the drive shaft drum and having an inner circumferential surface including at least one plurality of like raised cam surfaces, said cam surfaces further having a predetermined spaced relationship; a respective plurality of roller members located between the drive shaft drum and the drive ring and being in rolling contact with an outer surface of the drum and the plurality of cam surfaces; and magnetostrictive drive means secured to the drive ring and being activated to rotate the drive ring in a predetermined direction, causing the roller members to ride up the cam surfaces and be pinned against the outer surface of the drum thereby generating an inward force having a radial and tangential component, said tangential component producing a torque on the drive shaft drive drum. 2. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 1 wherein said drive means comprises at least one magnetostrictive rod member and an electrical activating coil therefor, whereby the energization causes said rod member to expand and thereby impart rotary motion to said drive ring. 3. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 1 wherein said drive means comprises a pair of magnetostrictive rod members and having a respective electrical activating coil wrapped therearound, said coils being selectively energized to cause the respective rod to expand and thereby impart rotary motion to said drive ring. 4. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 3 wherein said pair of rod members are mutually aligned and having opposing ends secured to said drive ring at substantially the same location thereof. 5. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 1 wherein said one plurality of cam surfaces face in a first direction and additionally including another plurality of like raised cam surfaces facing in a second direction opposite to said first direction. 6. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 1 wherein said at least one and another plurality of like raised cam surfaces are alternately spaced inside of said drive ring. 7. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 6 wherein said one and another plurality of cam surfaces are equally spaced, respectively. 8. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 7 wherein said drive means comprises at least one pair of mutually aligned magnetostrictive rod members each having one end coupled to said drive ring, each said rod member additionally including an activating coil which when energized causes the respective rod member to expand, said expansion causing the other said rod member to contract. 9. The metnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 1 wherein said drive ring is comprised of a first and second half ring member and wherein said first half ring member includes said one plurality of cam surfaces, and additionally including another plurality of like raised cam surfaces on said second half ring member. 10. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 9 wherein both said plurality of cam surfaces are arranged, one over the other, on the inner circumferential surface of said half ring members. 11. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 10 wherein said rollers comprise first and second sets of truncated conical members respectively located at said one and said another plurality of cam surfaces. 12. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 11 wherein said one and said another plurality of cam surfaces are equally spaced, said one plurality of cam surfaces facing in a first direction and said another plurality of cam surfaces facing in a second direction opposite said first direction. 13. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 12 wherein said first and second sets of conical members have smaller end portions facing outwardly in mutually opposite directions. 14. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 13 and additionally including means for biasing pairs of opposing conical members in an outward direction. 15. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 13 and additionally including means located externally of said first and second sets of conical members for selectively forcing one of said sets of conical members inwardly against the bias exerted by said means for biasing in order to reduce surface contact between said one set of conical members and said drive shaft drum. 16. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 15 wherein said conical members include respective axial bores and additionally including a respective number of spring type spindle members located on said externally located means projecting into said axial bores of said conical members. 17. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 15 wherein said means for forcing comprises a pair of magnetizable annular plates arranged on either side of said first and second half ring members. 18. The magnetostrictive drive motor as defined by claim 16 and wherein said drive shaft drum is comprised of first and second half drum members fastened together. 19. The magnetizable drive motor as defined by claim 18 wherein said magnetostrictive drive means comprises at least one pair of mutually aligned magnetostrictive rod members having one end coupled to said drive ring, each rod member including an activating coil which when energized causes the respective rod member to expand and the other rod member, which is unenergized, to contract. 20. The magnetizable drive motor as defined by claim 19 and additionally including at least one support frame located exteriorly of said drive ring for holding said at least one pair of rod members and a motion coupling arm pivotally mounted on said drive shaft and being connected at its ends to the drive ring. 