The invention provides a modular robotic wrist system for use with an industrial manipulator or the like. The individual modular units comprise a mounting bracket, an A axis module which is attachable to the mounting bracket and provides rotational movement about a first axis, a B axis module which is mountable either directly to the mounting bracket or to the A axis module to provide either rotational movement about a second axis or additional rotational movement about the second axis in conjunction with the rotational movement provided by the A axis module about a first axis and tool-mounting flanges which can be used in conjunction with the B axis module to provide rotational movement of an end effector either on the second axis or radially spaced about the second axis. Each of the modular units has a rotating member which is driven by a high-speed, low-torque DC motor coupled to a harmonic drive unit. The individual modules can be provided with position feedback mechanisms which provide both speed and locational information.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A modular robotic wrist system for use with an industrial manipulator or the like comprising: a mounting bracket defining a chamber-like interior and having first means at one end thereof for attaching said mounting bracket onto an arm of an industrial manipulator, and having second means at the opposite end thereof for removably securing thereto an A-axis wrist module; said A-axis wrist module which provides a first degree of freedom comprising a mounting plate having means therewith for the detachable mounting of said A-axis module to said mounting bracket second means, a first rotating member rotatably mounted on said mounting plate which first rotating member includes a bottom portion onto which a B-axis module is mounted, and first drive means in mechanical communication therewith for effecting the rotational movement of said rotating member relative to said mounting plate about a first axis of rotation which first axis is generally parallel with the arm of the robot onto which said mounting bracket and said A-axis wrist are mounted and wherein said first drive means is enclosed within said chamber-like interior of said mounting bracket; and said B-axis wrist module which provides a second degree of freedom which is generally perpendicular to said first degree of freedom comprising a housing having a mounting plate for the detachable mounting thereof to said bottom portion of said A-axis wrist module, a second rotating member rotatably mounted in said housing and second drive means disposed in said housing and in mechanical communication with said second rotating member for effecting the rotational movement thereof relative to said housing about a second axis of rotation, said second axis being substantially perpendicular to said first axis of rotation and said B-axis wrist mounting plate and wherein said second rotating member includes a first and a second mounting flange which detachably receives an end effector or the like thereon, said first mounting flange being mounted on said rotating member for radially spaced rotation about said second axis and said second mounting flange being mounted on said second rotating member for rotation on said axis. 2. The modular robotic wrist system according to claim 1 wherein the first drive means attached to the A-axis first wrist module includes a DC servo drive motor. 3. The modular robotic wrist system according to claim 2 wherein the first drive means includes a harmonic drive unit, driven by the DC servo drive motor. 4. The modular robotic wrist system according to claim 2 wherein the first drive means includes a means in communication with the DC servo drive motor to provide positional information. 5. The modular robotic wrist system according to claim 1 wherein the second drive means attached to the B-axis wrist module includes a DC servo drive motor. 6. The modular robotic wrist system according to claim 5 wherein the second drive means includes a harmonic drive unit driven by the DC servo motor. 7. The modular robotic wrist system according to claim 5 the second drive means includes a means in communication therewith to provide positional information. 