An automated medical system comprises a first instrument assembly including a first ultrasound transducer having a first transducer field of view that transmits and receives ultrasound signals in imaging planes disposed circumferentially about a guide instrument, and a second instrument assembly including a second ultrasound transducer having a second transducer field of view coupled to one of a second flexible guide instrument and a working instrument. A computing system is operatively coupled to the respective first and second transducers and configured to determine a relative spatial orientation of the respective first and second transducers based at least in part on detecting a signal transmitted by one of the first and second transducers and received by the other of the first and second transducers, the received signal having an amplitude indicating the receiving one of the transducers is in the field of view of the transmitting one of the transducers.
Claims What we claim is: 1. An automated medical system, comprising: a first instrument assembly including a first robotically-controlled flexible guide catheter having an interior lumen and a distal end opening in communication with the interior lumen, and an imaging instrument positioned in and axially movable relative to, the interior lumen of the first guide catheter, wherein the ultrasound imaging instrument is configured to be extended out the distal end opening of the first guide catheter, the ultrasound imaging instrument carrying a first ultrasound imaging transducer having a first field of view and configured to transmit and receive ultrasound signals in imaging planes disposed circumferentially about the first robotically-controlled guide catheter; a second instrument assembly including a second robotically-controlled flexible guide catheter having an interior lumen and a distal end opening in communication with the interior lumen, a working instrument positioned in the interior lumen of the second guide catheter, and a second ultrasound imaging transducer coupled to one of the second guide catheter and the working instrument, the second ultrasound imaging transducer having a second field of view; and a computing system operatively coupled to the first and second ultrasound imaging transducers, wherein the computing system is configured to control and process ultrasound signals transmitted and received by the first and second ultrasound imaging transducers, and wherein the computing system is configured to determine a relative spatial orientation of the first and second ultrasound imaging transducers based at least in part on detecting a signal transmitted by one of the first and second ultrasound imaging transducers and received by the other of the first and second ultrasound imaging transducers and a determined position of the transmitting one of the ultrasound imaging transducers, the computing system configured to utilize a magnitude of an amplitude of a signal detected by the receiving one of the transducers to determine a transmission orientation of the transmitting one of the ultrasound imaging transducers relative to the receiving one of the ultrasound imaging transducers. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the first instrument assembly further includes a first flexible sheath having a lumen and distal end opening, the first robotically-controlled guide catheter being disposed in, and axially movable relative to, the first sheath, wherein the first guide instrument catheter may be extended through the distal end opening of the first sheath, and the second instrument assembly further includes a second flexible sheath having a lumen and distal end opening, the second robotically-controlled guide catheter being disposed in, and axially movable relative to, the second sheath, wherein the second guide catheter may be extended through the distal end opening of the second sheath. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising a first localization sensor coupled to one of the first guide catheter and the imaging instrument, and a second localization sensor coupled to one of the second flexible sheath, second guide catheter, and working instrument. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first instrument assembly is operatively coupled to a first remotely controlled instrument driver, such that mechanisms of the first instrument driver operate or control movement, operation, or both, of the first guide catheter and imaging instrument, and the second instrument assembly is operatively coupled to a second remotely controlled instrument driver, such that mechanisms of the second instrument driver operate or control movement, operation, or both, of the second guide catheter and working instrument. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising an operator control station configured for transmitting electrical signals to the first and second remotely controlled instrument drivers to respectively control movement of the imaging instrument and the working instrument. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computing system is configured for determining the relative spatial orientation of the first and second transducers based additionally on a known position of the transmitting transducer. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the first instrument assembly further includes a localization sensor mechanically associated with the transmitting transducer. 8. The system of claim 6, further comprising a localization system for providing the known position of the transmitting transducer. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the relative spatial orientation of the first and second ultrasound imaging transducers comprises relative positions of the transducers in a coordinate system. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a display for displaying an image of the working instrument based on signals transmitted by the first ultrasound imaging transducer. 