A rehabilitation apparatus having a robotic arm controlled by application software and a control board of a CPU. The patient is required to contact a home switch positioned adjacent to the patient and upon command contact a switch on an end defector which has been positioned in a predetermined position by a robotic arm. The patient's ability to move the various positions is monitored and stored in the CPU. The method for use of the apparatus is also disclosed.
Claims What I claim is: 1. An apparatus for the rehabilitation of patients comprising: at least one patient station comprising: means for selectively soliciting a contact from said patient, said means for soliciting being a light; means for receiving said contact from said patient and generating a signal; means for selectively moving said means for receiving to a predetermined position; said means for selectively moving having a robotic arm operable to selectively position said means for receiving to a predetermined position within a predetermined three dimensional area; and a central processing unit communicating with said at least one patient station, said central processing unit having means for receiving said signal from said means for receiving. 2. The rehabilitation apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means for receiving comprises a contact switch. 3. The rehabilitation apparatus of claim 1 wherein said patient station comprises a home switch which is connected to said central processing unit, said home switch movable for positioning adjacent to said patient. 4. A rehabilitation system for a patient said system comprising: a central CPU for controlling the operation of said system; at least one robotic arm having an end effector, said end effector having means for soliciting contact from said patient and means for receiving contact from said patient, said robotic arm selectively operable to position said end effector in at least one predetermined position within a predetermined three dimensional area, said end effector having a remote CPU and means for interconnecting said remote CPU with said means for soliciting and said means for receiving, said remote CPU controlling the operation of said means for soliciting and said means for receiving said remote CPU producing a signal when said means for receiving is contacted by said patient; means for controlling the position of said robotic arm, in response to a command from said central CPU; and means for delivering said signal to said central CPU from said remote CPU; and means for receiving and storing said first and second signals whereby said signals may be accessed for analysis. 5. The system of claim 11 wherein said home switch has a light operable in response to a signal from said central CPU. 6. The system of claim 4 wherein said means for soliciting further comprises at least one light selectively operable in response to a signal from said remote CPU. 7. The system of claim 4 wherein said robotic arm further comprises means for determining the position of said end effector and communicating the position to said central CFU. 8. The system of claim 4 wherein said means for receiving and storing comprise a control board having at least one PROM mounted in said central CPU. 9. The system of claim 4 wherein said at least one robotic arm comprises a plurality of robotic arms. 10. A method of rehabilitation and testing of disabled patients, said method comprising: tapping a home switch to generate a first signal in response to said contact; receiving said first signal in a control board of a CPU; storing said first signal; moving a gripper switch to a predetermined position within a three dimensional area with a robotic arm in response to said first signal; contacting said gripper switch then said gripper switch is in said predetermined position to generate a second signal; receiving said second signal in a control board of a CPU; measuring a time difference between said first signal and said second signal; and storing said time difference in said CPU. 11. A method of rehabilitation and testing of disabled patients, said method comprising: positioning a response device at a predetermined position within a predetermined three dimensional area with a robotic arm; soliciting a response from the patient; waiting a period of time for the response; receiving and storing a signal indicating a proper response; recording the non-occurrence of a response signal in the event that a signal is not produced; and analyzing the performance of the patient. 12. The system of claim 4, further comprising a home switch and means for connecting said home switch with said central CPU, said home switch generating a signal when contacted by said patient. 