A wire insertion tool includes a pair of fingers which are selectively cammed to different states. One finger supports the terminal as the wire is inserted into the terminal by the other finger avoiding reaction forces on the substrate to which the terminal is attached. The fingers have a state in which they keep the wire aligned with the insertion portion of the fingers as the fingers travel from terminal to terminal in a wiring cycle. The fingers have a wire sever state to sever the wire at the end of the wiring cycle in which a length of wire is attached to a plurality of terminals. A feed assembly feeds wire to the fingers as the wire is played out during the wiring cycle to minimize tensioning the wire as the tool travels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wire insertion tool for inserting a wire into electrical engagement with an insulation displacement terminal (IDT) on a substrate, said terminal including a set of spaced tines extending in a given direction for receiving at one end thereof said inserted wire and further including tine support structure at the other end thereof for securing said tines to a post extending approximately normal to said direction, said tool comprising: a support adapted to be attached to an automatic insertion tool head which locates and moves the tool relative to said IDT; a first element movably secured to the support having an open state and a terminal support state, said element having a groove therein adapted for receiving and mating with said tine support structure in said support state, said groove and support structure being dimensioned such that said receiving tends to align said tines relative to said groove; a second element movably secured to the support having an open state, a closed state and a wire insertion state between its open and closed states, said second element including a wire insertion member adapted to mate with said tines in said insertion state for pushing said wire into said electrical engagement with said aligned tines; wire feed means secured to the support for feeding said wire between and aligned with said groove and said insertion member; and actuating means coupled to the support and the first and second elements for initially causing said first element to move from its open state to its support state to seat and align said tine support structure in said groove and thereby align said tines relative to said second element, and then for causing said second element to enter said insertion state to push said wire toward the first element and into said engagement with said tines while said first element supports said tines at said tine support structure with negligible reaction forces on said tool head and on said substrate. 2. The tool of claim 1 wherein said actuating means includes means for maintaining said first element in the support state and for moving the second element into said insertion state during said maintaining. 3. The tool of claim 1 wherein said means for moving said first element includes means adapted to move the first element at a relatively gradual rate over a given time interval prior to the commencement of said second element insertion state. 4. The tool of claim 1 wherein one of said first and second elements includes a blade projecting therefrom facing the other element, said other element including a cutting anvil facing and adapted to mate with said blade, said feed means feeding said wire between said blade and anvil, said actuating means including means for selectively causing at least one of said elements to move toward the other of said elements an amount sufficient to sever said wire passing between said blade and anvil in a sever state. 5. The tool of claim 1 wherein said elements are pivotally secured to the support, the elements including channel means for embracing said fed wire in a wire retaining state to retain said fed wire in alignment with said elements after the attachment of said wire portion to said terminal. 6. The tool of claim 5 wherein said actuating means includes means for placing at least one of the elements in respective different positions in said open, support, wire retaining, and sever states. 7. The tool of claim 5 wherein said channel means includes a channel member extending from the first element an amount sufficient to be spaced sufficiently close to the second element to form an enclosed aperture therewith in said wire retaining state. 8. The tool of claim 1 wherein said elements comprise first and second fingers pivotally secured to the support, the actuating means including a cam rotatably coupled to said fingers for placing said fingers into said states in accordance with the relative rotatable position of the cam to the fingers and further including drive means for selectively rotating said cam. 9. The tool of claim 1 further including wire severing means coupled to the support for selectively severing said wire portion from said wire feed means. 10. The tool of claim 9 wherein said wire severing means includes a blade rigidly attached to the first element and operated by the displacement of said first element through the terminal support and wire retaining states to the wire sever state adjacent the second element. 11. The tool of claim 9 wherein said actuating means includes cam means for sequentially placing the fingers from said open state through the terminal support-wire insertion state and to the wire retaining state. 12. The tool of claim 1 wherein said support includes means adapted to mate with and be attached to a robotic arm. 13. The tool of claim 1 further including control means coupled to the support for moving the tool from a first location to a second location at a given rate, said feed means including means for feeding said wire to said fingers at said given rate. 14. The tool of claim 1 further including control means for moving the tool from a first location to a second location for attaching a wire to a first terminal at the first location and to a second terminal at the second location, said wire being pulled from said tool as said tool travels and tending to have tension of a relatively undesirable value due to said pulling, said feed means including means for feeding said wire to said tool at a rate to maintain the tension in said wire below said value. 15. In a wire insertion apparatus including a tool for automatically attaching a portion of a wire to an insulation displacement terminal (IDT) of the type including a pair of insulation displacement tines extending approximately normal to a post attached to a substrate, said apparatus including tool locating and displacement means for automatically locating the wire insertion tool at a given wire insertion location on the substrate for inserting a wire onto said IDT and for moving the tool from terminal to terminal on the substrate, said tool comprising: a support including means for releasably attaching the support to said locating and displacement means; first and second aligned facing fingers pivotally secured to the support at spaced corresponding pivots; the first finger including terminal support means, said first finger having an open state and a terminal support state, said terminal support means being adapted to abut said terminal to align and support said tines in response to a pushing force normal to said post by the second finger; the second finger having an open state and a wire insertion state, said second finger including wire pushing means adapted to abut said wire portion and push said portion against and into engagement with said tines toward said terminal support means in the wire insertion state; at least one of said fingers including a channel member dimensioned to permit said wire to pass therethrough and shaped to selectively form an enclosed aperture with the other of said fingers in a wire retaining state to retain said passed-through wire in alignment with said terminal support means and pushing means as said tool is moved from terminal to terminal; wire severing means coupled to said fingers spaced between the terminal support means and the pushing means and the respective pivots of the fingers for severing said wire portion from said wire in a sever state; wire feed means secured to the support for selectively feeding said wire portion between said fingers including said terminal support, pushing means and severing means, and the channel of said channel member; and actuating means coupled to said support for causing said fingers to be selectively cooperatively placed in one of said open, terminal support-wire insertion, retaining, and severing states. 16. The tool of claim 15 wherein said fingers are so constructed that they pass from the open state to the terminal support-insertion state to the retaining state and thence to the severing state as the fingers pivot closed from the open state. 17. A method for attaching a wire to an insulation displacement terminal (IDT) having a set of tines open at one end to receive a wire to be attached thereto, a support structure at the other end of said set, and a post for attaching said tines substantially parallel to a substrate so the inserted wire is normal to the substrate, said method comprising: (a) supporting said terminal at said support structure; (b) pushing a first portion of said wire into engagement with said tines in a direction toward said supported support structure and parallel to the substrate; (c) releasing the support structure and pushed portion; (d) aligning a second wire portion of said wire with a second terminal; (e) repeating the steps a-c; and then: (f) severing the wire from the last-attached terminal. 18. The method of claim 17 comprising repeating the steps a-f automatically with a plurality of sets of terminals. 19. The method of claim 17 further including the steps of: approaching the terminal with said first wire portion; aligning said first wire portion with the terminals tines; and then continuing onto steps a-f. 20. A method for automatically attaching a wire to a plurality of IDT terminals whose tines are parallel to a substrate comprising: (a) approaching one of the terminals with a wire to be inserted normal to the substrate; (b) aligning a first portion of the wire to the one terminal; (c) supporting the one terminal in a given direction; (d) while supporting, pushing the wire onto the terminal parallel to said given direction and said substrate; (e) releasing the wire portion and the terminal; (f) moving a second portion of the wire to a separate, different terminal; (g) repeating steps a-f for each separate terminal in the sequence; and then: (h) severing the wire from the wire portion attached to the last terminal in the sequence. 