The described and improved multi-arm invention of this application presents three strategies for adaptive control of cooperative multi-arm robots which coordinate control over a common load. In the position-position control strategy, the adaptive controllers ensure that the end-effector positions of both arms track desired trajectories in Cartesian space despite unknown time-varying interaction forces exerted through a load. In the position-hybrid control strategy, the adaptive controller of one arm controls end-effector motions in the free directions and applied forces in the constraint directions; while the adaptive controller of the other arm ensures that the end-effector tracks desired position trajectories. In the hybrid-hybrid control strategy, the adaptive controllers ensure that both end-effectors track reference position trajectories while simultaneously applying desired forces on the load. In all three control strategies, the cross-coupling effects between the arms are treated as "disturbances" which are compensated for by the adaptive controllers while following desired commands in a common frame of reference. The adaptive controllers do not require the complex mathematical model of the arm dynamics or any knowledge of the arm dynamic parameters or the load parameters such as mass and stiffness. Circuits in the adaptive feedback and feedforward controllers are varied by novel adaptation laws.
Claims What is claimed is 1. In a hybrid controller adapted to issue control signals, each of which control a respective manipulator in a multi-manipulator system wherein each manipulator's position and/or force is applied in controlling a common load being acted upon in coordination by all of the manipulators of the system, the improvement comprising: means individually associated with each of said manipulators for independently coordinating its part in controlling said load, and in so doing, introducing into the other manipulators, through the load, a cross-coupled position and/or force term; and adaptive control means for generating a variable control signal applied to each of said manipulators, which variable control signal compensates in real-time for the inter-manipulator cross-coupling terms introduced into the other manipulators through said load as it is being acted upon by said multi-manipulator system. 2. The hybrid controller in accordance with claim 1 wherein the manipulators operate in an environment and such manipulators and the environment form a complex, dynamic model specified as having environmental and manipulator parameter values that are unknown, and the improvement is further characterized by: said variable control signal generating means include signal handling circuitry which is formulated and operable free from any knowledge of said model environmental or parameter values. 3. The hybrid controller in accordance with claim 2, wherein each manipulator exhibits a force response and includes a driving means that is responsive to a force command signal, and the improvement is further characterized by: said adaptive control means including at least one adaptive force controller for controlling each of said manipulator's driving means in the force that it applies to the load; and said adaptive force controller includes a realtime force signal generating means for emitting a signal that causes said manipulator to exhibit the desired force response that is indicated by said force command signal. 4. The hybrid controller in accordance with claim 3, and wherein each manipulator exhibits a position response and includes a driving means that is responsive to a position command signal, and the improvement is further characterized by: at least one adaptive position controller for controlling each of said manipulator's driving means in the position that it applies to said load; and said adaptive position controller includes a real-time position signal generating means for emitting a signal that causes said manipulator to exhibit the desired position response that is indicated by said position command signal. 5. The hybrid controller in accordance with claim 4 and wherein the improvement is further characterized by: each manipulator's adaptive control means is independently operative from the adaptive control means which control the other manipulators; and means for issuing coordinated force and/or position commands to each of said independently operative adaptive control means. 6. The hybrid controller in accordance with claim 5 wherein said adaptive control means is further characterized as comprising: an adaptive force control circuit which includes a force signal feedback and feedforward generating means; an adaptive position control circuit which includes a position signal feedback and feedforward generating means; and means for connecting both said force and position signal generating means to said manipulator driving means in order to control said manipulator's position and/or force exerted on said load in accordance with said position and/or force commands. 7. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 2 wherein said adaptive control means further comprises: means for deriving an auxiliary signal for controlling, at least in part, the position and dynamics of said manipulator; and summing means for adding said auxiliary signal in combination with command signals representing position and dynamics in said position-controlling adaptive feedforward and feedback control loops. 8. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 1 and including a position and/or force command generator for emitting signals indicative of a desired position and/or force on said load and further wherein each manipulator's actual force/position applied to said load are sensed in order to derive position/force error terms that are thereafter respectively represented as error signals by the hybrid controller, and wherein the improvement is further characterized in that said adaptive control means comprises: a signal summing junction for forming said real-time force and/or position control signal(s); a feedforward command control loop for applying said desired force/position command signal(s) to said summing junction; an adaptive force/position control loop for receiving said desired force command signal; and adaptation control means in said adaptive force/position control loop responsive to said command signal(s) and also responsive to said actual sensed error signal(s) for modifying the command(s) and error(s) signals and applying the so-modified signal(s) to said summing junction. 9. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 8 and wherein said signal modifying means in said adaptive control means operates in accordance with a force control law, and said controller further comprises: a plurality of variable gain circuits for implementing a force control law characterized as: ##EQU40## wherein P.sub.r (t) is said desired force command signal term; d(t) is, at least in part, a cross-coupling force/position compensating term; the K.sub.I, K.sub.p, and K.sub.v signal terms are individually varied gain control terms; E is a force error term and Z is a velocity damping term. 10. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 9 and wherein said signal modifying means in said adaptive control means operates in accordance with a position control law, and said controller further comprises: a plurality of variable gain circuits for implementing a position control law characterized as: ##EQU41## wherein the term R(t) is a desired position trajectory signal term, [K.sub.p E.sub.p +K.sub.p E.sub.p ] and [CR+BR+AR] are terms contributed by the feedback and feedforward adaptive position control loops. 11. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 1 and including a position and/or force command generator for emitting signals indicative of a desired position and/or force on said load and further wherein each manipulator's actual force/position applied to said load are sensed in order to derive position/force error terms that are thereafter represented by error signals to be fedback over a feedback control loop to the hybrid controller, and wherein the improvement is further characterized in that said adaptive control means also comprises, in addition; a signal summing junction for forming said real time force and/or position control signal(s); a feedforward command control loop for applying said desired force/position command signal(s) to said additional summing junction; an adaptive control loop for receiving said desired force command signal; and adaptation control means in said adaptive control loop responsive to said force command signal and also responsive to said actual sensed force error signal for modifying the command and error signals and applying the so-modified signal to said summing junction. 12. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 11 and further comprising: a position/force trajectory generator emitting desired force/position trajectory signals including position, velocity and acceleration signals; and means for applying said desired position, velocity and acceleration signals to said adaptive position feedforward and adaptive position feedback loops. 13. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 12 and further comprising: a linear adaptive position control law represented as the output signal from said adaptive position controlling means. 14. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 1 and wherein said improvement is further characterized by: means for compensating for dynamic cross coupling which results from adaptively controlling both position and force of said load by said manipulators. 15. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 14 wherein the manipulator driving means is further characterized as including: a signal summing junction for force control connectable to said manipulator(s) for applying thereto a combined variable force control signal derived, at least in part, from said feedforward control loop. 16. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 15 and further comprising: variable gain control circuits in said adaptive force control loop; and an adaptation control responsive to signals indicative of the manipulator's actual Cartesian movements in said environment for controlling said gain control circuits in order to compensate for the system's non-linearities. 17. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 16 and further comprising: a position/force trajectory generator emitting force reference and/or position trajectory reference command signals; and means for comparing the desired position/force reference command signals) and an actual force signal representing the Cartesian force applied by said manipulator to said load, in order to derive an error signal for application to said feedback control loops. 18. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 17 wherein said signal summing means further comprises: a signal summing junction for summing said desired force reference command signal with said actual manipulator Cartesian force signal to derive therefrom said real-time force control signal. 19. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 18 and further comprising: means connecting said feedforward loop between said position/force command generator and said signal summing junction for feeding said desired force reference signal forward to said signal summing junction. 20. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 15 and further comprising; proportional-integral-differential (PID) controller circuits in said feedback and feedforward force control loop. 21. A hybrid in accordance with claim 20 and further comprising: variable gain control circuits in each of the PID controller circuits; and means for varying said variable gain control circuits in order to compensate, at least in part, for said system non-linearities. 22. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 21 and further comprising: a linear adaptive force control law represented as said output signal from said signal summing junction. 23. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 22 wherein said force control law is further characterized as: ##EQU42## wherein P.sub.r (t) is said desired force reference signal term, d(t) is an auxiliary force signal term emitted by said adaptation control, and the K.sub.I, K.sub.p, and K.sub.v signal terms are varied by the gain control circuits for the PID controller circuits in said feedback force control circuit. 24. A hybrid controller in accordance with claim 1 wherein said positioning of said load is controlled by a control law characterized as: ##EQU43## wherein the term R(t) is a desired position trajectory, [K.sub.p E.sub.p +K.sub.p E.sub.p ] and [CR+BR+AR] are terms contributed by feedback and feedforward adaptive position control loops; and wherein said force control law is characterized as: wherein P.sub.r (t) is said desired force reference signal term, d(t) is an auxiliary force signal term emitted by said adaptation control, and the K.sub.I, K.sub.p, and K.sub.v are variable gain terms; E is an error term; and Z is a velocity term. 25. A method of cooperative dual-arm robots together manipulating, via end-effectors, a common load by a position-position and position-hybrid control strategy, comprising the steps of: controlling the robots by adaptive controllers; commanding both arms of one robot to track desired trajectories in Cartesian space despite unknown time-varying interaction forces exerted through the load; adaptively controlling, for said robot, one arm's end-effector motions in free directions and applied forces in the constraint directions in Cartesian space, while adaptively controlling the other arm to ensure that its end-effector tracks desired position trajectories in said space. 26. A method of control in accordance with claim 25 wherein said adaptive control includes coordinating force/position control over said arms at a command level. 27. A method of control of cooperative dual-arm robots together manipulating, via end-effectors, a common load by a position-position control strategy, comprising the steps of: controlling the robots by adaptive controllers; and, for said position-position control strategy, commanding both arms to track desired trajectories in Cartesian space despite unknown time-varying interaction forces exerted through the load, and further comprising the steps of additionally including a position-hybrid control strategy, wherein the step of adaptive control further includes: adaptively controlling one arm's end-effector motions in free directions and applied forces in the constraint directions in Cartesian space, while adaptively controlling the other arm to ensure that its end-effector tracks desired position trajectories in said space. 28. A method of control in accordance with claim 27 and additionally including a hybrid-hybrid control strategy, wherein the step of adaptive control further includes: ensuring that both controller's end-effectors track reference position trajectories; while, simultaneously applying desired forces on the common load being acted upon by the dual-arm robots. 