A process is provided for removing polymer from a backside of a workpiece and/or photoresist from a front side of the workpiece. For backside polymer removal, the wafer is positioned near the ceiling to above a localized or remote plasma source having a side outlet through the sidewall of the chamber, and backside polymer is removed by rotating the workpiece while flowing plasma by-products from the side outlet to the wafer backside. For front side photoresist removal, the wafer is positioned away from the ceiling and below the side outlet of the localized plasma source, and front side photoresist is remove by rotating the workpiece while flowing plasma by-products from the side outlet to the wafer front side.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for removing polymer from a backside of a workplace comprising: supporting said workpiece on the backside in a vacuum chamber while exposing a peripheral annular portion of the backside; providing a localized plasma source adjacent a sidewall of the chamber and having an output port contained in said side wall and open to the interior of said chamber; confining the front side of said workpiece by holding said workplace in a first position in said chamber above the level of the top of said output port of said localized plasma source removing polymer from the backside of said workpiece, said removing comprising generating a plasma containing polymer etch species in the localized, plasma source, and flowing, drifting or diffusing first plasma by-products through said output port; and placing said workpiece in a second position below the level of the bottom of said output port of said localized plasma source; and stripping photoresist from a front side of the workplace, said stripping comprising generating a plasma containing photoresist removal species in said localized plasma source, and flowing, drifting or diffusing second plasma by-products from said localized plasma source through said output port. 2. The process of claim 1 further comprising applying a radio frequency (RF) bias between plasma in said localized plasma source and said workpiece. 3. The process of claim 1 wherein said confining and removing are performed one of: (a) before, or (b) after said placing and stripping. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said removing polymer from the backside is carried out while said workpiece is at a temperature below 200 degrees C. and said removing photoresist from the front side is carried out while said workpiece is at a temperature above 300 degrees C. 5. The process of claim 1 wherein said generating a plasma in said localized plasma source comprises one of: (a) inductively coupling plasma source power into said localize plasma source, (b) capacitively coupling plasma source power into said localized plasma source, or (c) generating a toroidal plasma in said localized plasma source. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein said first and second plasma by-products comprise at least one of: ions, neutrals, radicals. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein flowing first plasma by-products through said, output port of said localized plasma source comprises one of: (a) creating a diffusive flow of said first plasma by-products, or (b) creating a concentrated jet stream of said first plasma by-products. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein the same plasma chemistry is present in said localized plasma source during removal of backside polymer and front side photoresist. 9. The process of claim 1 wherein flowing, drifting or diffusing the second plasma by-products comprises directing said second plasma by-products from said output port of said localized plasma source to a target zone of the front side while rotating the workpiece. 10. The process of claim 9 wherein: said first position corresponds to a reduced workpiece-ceiling gap and said second position corresponds to a large workpiece-ceiling gap; said reduced workpiece-ceiling gap is between about 0.5 mm and 5 mm during the removal of the backside polymer; and said large workpiece-ceiling gap is between about 1 cm and 15 cm during the stripping of the photoresist. 11. The process of claim 1 further comprising: during said removing of polymer from the workpiece backside, removing polymer etch species from an upper process zone, said upper process zone comprising a volume in said vacuum chamber adjacent said front side or said workpiece. 12. The process of claim 11 wherein the removing of polymer etch species from said upper process zone comprises flowing a purge gas into said upper process zone while evacuating said vacuum chamber. 13. The process of claim 1 further comprising constantly heating said workpiece so as to ramp the temperature of said workpiece. 14. The process of claim 13 wherein said holding and removing are performed prior to said placing and stripping, whereby the stripping of photoresist from the workplace front side is performed at a higher workpiece temperature than removing of polymer from the workpiece backside. 15. The process of claim 1 wherein flowing, drifting or diffusing the first plasma by-products comprises directing said first plasma by-products from said output port of said localized plasma source to a target zone of the backside while rotating the workpiece. 16. The process of claim 15 further comprising, during said stripping photoresist: flowing a non-reactive species gas through a ceiling of said chamber into said upper process zone; and adjusting the uniformity of photoresist removal rate by adjusting: (a) a flow rate of said non-reactive species gas, (b) a flow rate of said second plasma by-products from said localized plasma source through said output port, (c) a workpiece-to-ceiling gap and (d) rotational speed. 17. The process of claim 15 wherein said directing said first plasma by-products from said output port of said localized plasma source to a target zone of the backside comprises directing a localized stream of said by-products to said target zone, said target zone having a diameter corresponding to a diameter of said stream. 18. A process for stripping photoresist from a front side of a workpiece, comprising: supporting said workpiece on the backside in a vacuum chamber while leaving exposed a peripheral portion of said backside; providing a localized plasma source adjacent a sidewall of the chamber and having an output port contained in said side wall and opening to the interior of said chamber; holding said workpiece in a first position in said chamber above the level of the top of said output port of said localized plasma source; removing polymer from the backside of said workpiece, said removing comprising generating a plasma containing polymer etch species in the localized plasma source, and flowing, drifting or diffusing first plasma by-products through said output port; placing said workplace in a position below the level of the bottom of said output port of said localized plasma source; and stripping photoresist from a front side of the workpiece, said stripping comprising generating a plasma containing photoresist removal species in said localized plasma source, and flowing, drifting or diffusing second plasma by-products from said localized plasma source through said output port. 19. The process of claim 18 wherein flowing the second plasma by-products comprises directing said second plasma by-products from said output port of said localized plasma source to a target zone while rotating the workpiece. 20. The process of claim 18 further comprising: flowing a non-reactive species gas through a ceiling of said chamber into said upper process zone, said upper process zone comprising a volume in said vacuum chamber adjacent said front side of said workpiece; and adjusting the uniformity of photoresist removal rate by adjusting: (a) a flow rate: of said non-reactive species gas, (b) a flow rate of said second plasma by-products from said localized plasma source through said output port, (c) a workplace-to-ceiling gap and d) rotational speed. 