A power driven rotary apparatus is disclosed for winding wire onto reels. A power driven turret has four stations, each adapted for receiving and supporting a reel about which wire is to be wound. Each station has a spindle for mounting a reel at a first location corresponding to a predetermined rotational position of the turret. The turret is rotated sequentially and continuously to each position. Means is provided for directing wire to be wound adjacent the reel when it is located at the wire winding positions located at twelve o'clock and nine o'clock respectively. Means is provided for rotating the reel at the second position in a direction adapted for winding the wire thereabout, and means is provided for stopping rotation of the reel after a predetermined amount of wire is wound thereabout. The reel is removed after the predetermined amount of wire is completely wound thereabout. The apparatus is adapted for sequential mounting of reels onto the turret for winding wire thereabout to provide a substantially continuous and sequential wire winding procedure. A method for rapidly winding wire onto these reels is also disclosed.
Claims I claim: 1. A power driven take-up apparatus for winding flexible reeling stock onto take-up reels which comprises: a. a power driven turret member having a plurality of stations, each adapted for receiving and supporting a reel or spool about which flexible reeling stock is to be wound; b. automatic means for automatically mounting and positioning a reel or spool at a first station corresponding to a predetermined rotational position of said turret member; c. means for rotating said turret member so that said reel or spool is moved at least to a second position; d. means for directing reeling stock to be wound onto said reel to a location adjacent said reel or spool when it is located at said second position; e. means for rotating said reel or spool at two of said positions in a direction adapted for winding the reeling stock thereabout; f. means for stopping rotation of said reel or spool after a predetermined amount of wire is wound thereabout; and g. automatic means for automatically removing said completely wound reel or spool from said turret member; said apparatus being adapted for sequential mounting of reels or spools onto said turret member for winding flexible reeling stock thereabout to provide a substantially continuous sequential wire winding procedure, wherein said means for rotating said reel or spool at said two of said positions comprises a motor driven pulley and belt system arranged to selectively rotate each reel at said two of said positions of said turret member for winding the reeling stock around said reels or spools, said motor driven pulley and belt system comprises at least two power driven motors, each adapted to drive a separate system of pulleys and pulley driving belts, and each station on said turret member for receiving a take-up reel or spool has a rotatable shaft connected to at least two pulleys, and one of each said set of pulleys is adapted to be rotated by engagement of a pulley belt at a predetermined location corresponding to a turret member position. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein each pulley belt is positioned for respective engagement by a pulley when the turret member is located at one of a plurality of stations. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said turret member has a circular configuration and is adapted to be rotated counterclockwise to a plurality of stations corresponding respectively to three o'clock, twelve o'clock, nine o'clock and six o'clock positions as viewed from the front of said turret member. 4. A power driven rotary apparatus for winding flexible reeling stock onto reels, which comprises: power driven turret means having at least two stations, each adapted for receiving and supporting a reel about which flexible reeling stock is to be wound; means for rotating the turret means such that each of said stations can be indexed to at least two positions at which operations can be performed on said reel, wherein flexible reeling stock can be wound about said reel at two of said at least two positions, and reels can be mounted on or removed from said stations at least at one position; means for directing flexible reeling stock onto said reel when said reel is located at a first of said two positions at which flexible reeling stock is wound on the reel; and means for rotating the reel when it is located at each of said positions at which flexible reeling stock is to be wound, to wind the flexible reeling stock thereon, said means for rotating comprising independent and selectively operable rotating means such that each reel is driven by the same rotating means throughout every position at which flexible reeling stock is wound about that reel, but wherein different reels simultaneously at the at least two positions at which flexible reeling stock is wound are driven by different rotating means. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said turret means has a generally circular configuration. 6. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein said flexible reeling stock is wire. 7. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein each station on said turret member for receiving a reel has a rotatable shaft with a pair of pulleys mounted thereon, a first one of the pulleys of each pair being connected in driving engagement to said shaft so that said shaft is positively rotated by engagement of a pulley belt with said first pulley when the station is at a position at which flexible reeling stock is wound, and said independent and selectively operable rotating means comprises at least two motors adapted to drive two systems of pulleys and pulley driving belts arranged to selectively rotate a reel or spool wherein each reel is rotated by the same system of pulley driving belts at every position where flexible reeling stock is wound about that reel. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7, further comprising at least one automatic means for mounting and removing empty and fully wound reels, respectively. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein each driving belt is engaged by one pulley at each of said stations when that station is at a position at which flexible reeling stock is to be wound. 10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the reel at each station is driven by a different belt than the reel at each adjacent station. 11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the pulleys at each station remain in driving engagement with said pulley belts over at least part of the path traveled by said pulleys when said station moves between positions where flexible reeling stock is to be wound. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said turret means has four stations, and there are four positions including a reel loading position, a first winding position, a second winding position, and a reel removing position. 13. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the pulleys at each station remain substantially in driving engagement with said pulley belts over substantially all of the path traveled by said pulleys when said station moves between positions where flexible reeling stock is to be wound. 14. A method for winding flexible reeling stock onto takeup reels, which comprises: rotating a turret member having at least two stations, each adapted for receiving and supporting a reel about which flexible reeling stock is to be wound, so that each station is indexed to at least two positions at which operations can be performed on said reel, wherein flexible reeling stock can be wound about said reel at two of said positions, and reels can be mounted on or removed from said turret member stations at least at one of said positions; directing flexible reeling stock onto said reel when said reel is located at a first of said two positions at which flexible reeling stock is wound; rotating said reel at each station when it is located at a position at which reeling stock is to be wound, in a direction adapted for winding the flexible reeling stock thereabout, by independent and selectively operable rotating means, such that each reel is driven by the same rotating means at every position at which flexible reeling stock is wound about that reel, but wherein different reels simultaneously at positions at which flexible reeling stock is wound are driven by different rotating means; and sequentially mounting said reels onto said turret member for winding flexible reeling stock thereabout to provide a substantially continuous sequential flexible reeling stock winding procedure. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein each station on said turret member for receiving a reel has a rotatable shaft with at least two pulleys mounted thereon, one of said pulleys being connected in driving engagement to said shaft and adapted to be rotated by engagement of a pulley belt when the station is at a position at which flexible reeling stock is wound, and further comprising the step of driving at least two systems of pulleys and pulley driving belts using independent and selectively operable motors, said systems of pulleys and pulley driving belts arranged to selectively rotate reels wherein each reel is rotated by the same system of pulley driving belts throughout every position where flexible reeling stock is wound about that reel. 16. The method according to claim 15, further comprising the steps of automatically mounting and removing empty and fully wound reels, respectively. 17. The method according to claim 16, further comprising driving the reels at each station by a different motor and system of pulleys and belts than the reels at each adjacent station. 18. The method according to claim 17, further comprising drivingly engaging the pulleys at each station with said pulley belts over at least part of the path traveled by said pulleys when said station moves between positions where flexible reeling stock is to be wound. 19. The method according to claim 18, further comprising drivingly engaging the pulleys at each station with said pulley belts over substantially all of the path travel by said pulleys when said station moves between positions where flexible reeling stock is to be wound. 20. The method according to claim 19, wherein said turret means has four stations, and further comprising rotating said four stations through four positions including a reel loading position, a first winding position, a second winding position, and a reel removing position. 