A steerable multi-linked device may include a first multi-linked mechanism and a second multi-linked mechanism. At least one of the first multi-linked mechanism and the second multi-linked mechanism may include a first link, a plurality of intermediate links, a second link movably coupled to a second one of the intermediate links and a reinforcing member. A first one of the intermediate links may be movably coupled to the first link, and the reinforcing member may extend from a first end of a third one of the intermediate links toward a second end of the third one of the intermediate links.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A steerable multi-linked device, comprising: a first multi-linked mechanism; and a second multi-linked mechanism, wherein the second multi-linked mechanism concentrically surrounds the first multi-linked mechanism, wherein the second multi-linked mechanism comprises: a first link; a plurality of intermediate links, wherein a first one of the intermediate links is movably coupled to the first link, wherein the plurality of intermediate links comprise a first plurality of grooves; a second link movably coupled to a second one of the intermediate links; and a reinforcing member, wherein the reinforcing member extends from a first end of a third one of the intermediate links toward a second end of the third one of the intermediate links, wherein the reinforcing member is configured to reduce stress on the third one of the intermediate links, wherein the first multi-linked mechanism comprises a second plurality of intermediate links comprising a second plurality of grooves, wherein the first plurality of grooves and the second plurality of grooves cooperate to define at least one working port along a length of the steerable multi-linked device. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the reinforcing member is connected to a first surface of the third one of the intermediate links. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the reinforcing member is formed integral with the third one of the intermediate links. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the first link comprises one or more reinforcing members. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the second link comprises one or more reinforcing members. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the reinforcing member comprises a metal collar. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein a wall thickness associated with the reinforcing member is such that the reinforcing member interferes with a range of motion associated with one or more adjacent links. 8. The device of claim 6, wherein a longitudinal length associated with the reinforcing member is such that the reinforcing member interferes with a range of motion associated with one or more adjacent links. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein the reinforcing member surrounds at least ten percent of a surface area of a first surface of the third one of the intermediate links. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the reinforcing member is comprised of at least one of the following: a polymer thermoplastic material; a metal; a fiber; and a mesh. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first multi-linked device and the second multi-linked device comprises a plurality of reinforcing members. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the reinforcing member is a circumferentially reinforcing member. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein: the third one of the intermediate links comprises a through-hole configured to surround a cable, and the reinforcing member is configured to reduce stress on the third one of the intermediate links when a force is applied to the cable. 14. The device of claim 1, wherein the reinforcing member is configured to reduce stress experienced by one or more of: the first link, at least one of the plurality of intermediate links and the second link when a force is applied to a cable of the device. 