A storage library with a simplified operating mechanism for computer back-up data cartridges. The cartridge is placed in a tray in an opening in a sealed storage chamber and transported into and removed from a multi-tier storage carrousel by a robotic arm. When a tape is to be retrieved, the arm moves the stored cartridge either to a module or directly to the window tray. A simple transmission operating the carrousel permits any cartridge to be moved to the storage-retrieval station in no more than two revolutions of the multi-carrousel central drive shaft. The use of a carrousel reduces the distance the arm must travel and decreases the time for storage or retrieval of a cartridge. Only two of seven axes have incremental positioning controls: the vertical lift and the carrousel rotation. All other axes have fixed travel distances. A cartridge gripper is compliant, readily adaptable to different cartridge configurations, and materially reduces the need for precision positioning.
Claims I claim: 1. The combination comprising a module for utilizing data storage cartridges, a carrousel having storage spaces for a plurality of data storage cartridges and having a predefined storage-retrieval station, first drive means for rotating said carrousel and stopping at any of a plurality of predetermined positions, a robotic arm, means supporting said arm for rotational movement about an axis parallel with and offset from the rotational axis of said carrousel, second drive means for rotating said arm in a plane perpendicular to the plane of the rotational axis of said arm, a carriage mounted for longitudinal movement along said arm and having gripper means for holding one of said cartridges, third drive means for transporting said gripper means along the longitudinal axis of said arm between said storage-retrieval station and said module, and means for opening and closing said gripper means. 2. The combination as claimed in claim 1 including a housing enclosing said library and having a cartridge reception and delivery door, a module for reading information contained in said cartridges, and a module door for placing cartridges in said module, wherein said module door, said storage-retrieval station, and the rotational axis of said arm are positioned approximately on a straight line. 3. The combination as claimed in claim 2 including means for stopping said carrousel with a predetermined cartridge at said storage-retrieval station, control means for actuating said gripper means to grasp said cartridge, and optionally move said carriage to said module door or to said cartridge reception and delivery door. 4. In an automatic data-storage library, the combination comprising a housing having a window and a receiving tray for receiving and delivering data storage cartridges, a carrousel having multiple vertically displaced storage tiers, each having storage spaces for a plurality of said cartridges and having a predefined storage-retrieval station, a module for reading information contained in said cartridges, a rotatable vertical column, a robotic arm secured to said column, carriage means on said arm for releasably holding a cartridge, first drive means for rotating said column thereby to move said arm between a first position in which said carriage is adjacent said storage-retrieval station, said module, or said receiving tray, and a second position in which said carriage is removed from said storage-retrieval station, said module and said tray, second drive means for moving said arm vertically on said column thereby to position said arm adjacent different tiers of said carrousel, said second drive means including first and second drive plates secured at spaced points to said first column, a lead screw extending between said drive plates and in threaded engagement with said arm, and motor means for rotating said lead screw, second drive means for moving said carriage means horizontally between first and second positions on said arm, said first position being at said storage retrieval station, and said second station being in vertical alignment with said module and said receiving tray. 5. The combination claimed in claim 4 wherein a straight line through a cartridge in reading position in said module and another cartridge at said storage-retrieval station passes through the center of rotation of said column. 6. In an automatic data storage library for storing and retrieving a plurality of data cartridges, the combination comprising a carrousel rotatably mounted for rotation about a first axis and having a plurality of separate sub-carrousels, each rotatably mounted on an auxiliary axis parallel with and displaced from said first axis, each sub-carrousel including means for storing a plurality of data cartridges, a primary drive shaft for rotating said carrousel, a plurality of sub-carrousel drive shafts each secured to one of said carrousels whereby each sub-carrousel can rotate about its own auxiliary axis, means for rotating said primary drive shaft to rotate said carrousel, a sub-carrousel drive system comprising a first synchronizing member supported by and rotatable on said primary drive shaft and coupled with a predetermined speed ratio to one of said sub-carrousel driver shafts, and means coupling all of said sub-carrousel drive shafts together for synchronized rotation. 7. The combination claimed in claim 6 wherein said carrousel has a plurality of vertically spaced tiers each including a plurality of sub-carrousels. 8. The combination claimed in claim 6 wherein said carrousel includes four sub-carrousels and each sub-carrousel has storage space for four cartridges. 9. The method of storing back-up data for a computer system comprising the steps of providing a carrousel rotatable about a first vertical axis and having spaces for storing a plurality of data storage cartridges, coding the storage space of each cartridge, rotating said carrousel to a predetermined position in accordance with said coding to place a selected one of said cartridges at a storage-retrieval station, providing a robotic arm rotatable about a second vertical axis offset from said first vertical axis of said carrousel, providing a tape-reading module, moving said cartridge longitudinally along said arm from said storage-retrieval station to said module, the position of said cartridge when in said module and when at said storage-retrieval station being in a plane passing through the rotational axis of said arm. 10. In an automatic storage library for data cartridges, the combination comprising a housing, a cartridge receiving window in said housing, a cartridge-reading module for reading data from said cartridges, a primary carrousel rotatably mounted on a first axis and having a plurality of sub-carrousels each rotatably mounted for rotation about an auxiliary axis parallel with and offset from said first axis and having storage space for a plurality of cartridges, means for rotating said primary carrousel and said sub-carrousels as a unit about said first axis, means for rotating each of said carrousels about its auxiliary axis in synchronized relationship to the rotation of said primary carrousel, means for positioning said carrousel too place a predetermined cartridge stored on said carrousel at a storage retrieval station, and means for transferring cartridges between said window, said module and said storage-retrieval station. 11. The combination claimed in claim 10 wherein said module and said window are on common vertical line. 12. The combination claimed in claim 11 wherein said means for transfering said cartridges includes an arm supported for arcuate movement about a predetermined vertical axis. 13. The combination claimed in claim 12 wherein a cartridge at said storage-retrieval station, and a cartridge in said module, and a cartridge in said window are in a common plane with the rotational axis of said arm. 