It is provided an alarm system for underground boundary intrusion detection, and methods for deployment and operation. The deployment method includes constructing of a computing-and-empowering apparatus, connecting thereof a longitudinally extended power-and-communication cable, connecting addressable junction-units, storing a physical location and an address of each junction-unit in the computing-and-empowering apparatus, connecting each addressable junction-unit to a wired-mole having a wire bundle which initially is contracted there within and measurable physical characteristics, and infiltrating the wired-moles normally into ground to a desired depth. In operation, the sensors frequently measure the physical characteristics of the wired-mole, deliver the measurement of the physical characteristics to the computing-and-empowering apparatus, which stores and analyzes the measurements, comparing past and present measurements. Once it concludes that an underground boundary intrusion might occur, it issues an alarm signal which includes the physical location of the addressable junction units where intrusion presumably has occurred.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for deploying an alarm system characterized by being fitted for deploying an alarm system for underground boundary intrusion detection, the method comprising: a) constructing a computing-and-empowering apparatus; b) connecting thereof at least one longitudinally extended power-and-communication cable; c) connecting to the power-and-communication cable a first number of addressable junction-units, whereas each addressable junction unit comprises a communication-controller and a sensor; d) storing a physical location and an address of each junction-unit in said computing-and-empowering apparatus; e) connecting each addressable junction-unit to one of a first number of wired-moles, said wired-mole includes a wire bundle which initially is contracted there within, whereas the wired mole has at least one physical characteristic measurable by said sensor of the junction unit connected thereof; f) infiltrating the wired-moles into ground in a certain direction which is substantially parallel for the majority of the wired-moles; g) directing said computing-and-empowering apparatus to command the wired moles to each start digging operation and accordingly release its wire bundle, and to continue said digging operation until a predetermined wire bundle length has been released by the wired-mole; and h) once the majority of the wired-moles have stopped digging upon release of the corresponding predetermined wire bundle length, declaring an operational mode of an alarm system, said alarm system comprised of said computing-and-empowering apparatus, said at least one longitudinally extended power-and-communication cable, said first number of addressable junction units, and at least the majority of said first number of wired-moles; whereby in said operational mode each of said sensors frequently measures said at least one physical characteristic of a corresponding one of said wired-moles connected thereof, and delivers the measurement of the physical characteristics to said computing-and-empowering apparatus, which stores and analyzes the measurements, comparing past and present measurements, and once said computing-and-empowering apparatus concludes that an underground boundary intrusion might be occurring, it issues an alarm signal comprised of the physical location of the addressable junction units where intrusion presumably occurred. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the wired-mole includes a robotic mole, whereas initially most of said wire bundle is contracted within said robotic mole. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the computing-and-empowering apparatus comprises a power supply, a deployment-command module, an alarm-analysis module, an external interface, and a data-base module. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said data-base module comprises a measurement table and a physical location table. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said robotic-mole comprises a wire-release mechanism, a communicator, a rotary-motor, a drilling-head, and a navigation mechanism. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said navigation mechanism includes a steering device, an inclination meter, a processing and control unit and a powering unit. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said wire bundle comprises at least two electrical power wires. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein said wire-release mechanism measures the released length of said bundle-wire and communicates the released length to said deployment-command module in series through said communicator, said wire-bundle, said communication-controller, and through said power-and-communication cable. 9. The method of claim 2, wherein said robotic-mole is a sandy robotic-mole. 10. The method of claim 2, wherein said robotic-mole is a rocky robotic-mole. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the alarm system is deployed underneath an above-ground fence or wall. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said certain direction is substantially normal to ground. 13. The method of claim 3, wherein said computing-and-empowering apparatus is controlled by a human operator through said external interface. 14. The method of claim 7, wherein said sensor is a miniature multi-meter, which measures at least one of the attribute group consisting of resistivity, capacity and inductivity of the electric wire pair. 15. The method of claim 7, wherein said sensor is a miniature multi-meter, which measures all of the attribute group consisting of resistivity, capacity and inductivity of the electric wire pair. 16. The method of claim 7, wherein said sensor measures the inductivity of the electric wire pair, and is able to measure a remained length of the electric wire pair in case that it have been cut as a result of underground intrusion. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said computing-and-empowering apparatus and the addressable junction-unit are each equipped with a transceiver and a wireless channel is established between said computing-and-empowering apparatus and each addressable junction-units. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said power-and-communication cable comprises at least one pair of electrical wires. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein power-and-communication cable carries at least one communication channel. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein said wire bundle is an entangled bundle of four sub-millimeter electric wires, two wires for power delivery and two wires for communication. 