An asynchronous temporal neural processing element. The processing element is useful in solving problems from the class of temporal signal processing problems and is modeled closely on the sub-cellular biology and electrophysiology of neurons having chemical synapses.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A neural network processing element, a plurality of which comprise a neural network, said processing element comprising: means for simulating one or more chemical synapses; means for simulating a neuron soma; means for simulating one or more dendrites operably connecting said means for simulating one or more chemical synapses to said means for simulating a neuron soma; means for simulating an axon; means for simulating an axon hillock operably connecting said means for simulating a neuron soma to said means for simulating an axon: means for receiving asynchronous signals and providing said signals to said means for simulating one or more chemical synapses; and means for sending asynchronous signals from said means for simulating an axon. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein said means for simulating one or more chemical synapses comprises means for simulating one or more chemical synapses selected from the group consisting of excitatory synapses, inhibitory synapses, and shunting synapses. 3. The invention of claim 1 wherein said means for simulating one or more chemical synapses comprises means for simulating one or more presynaptic regions. 4. The invention of claim 1 wherein said means for simulating one or more chemical synapses comprises means for simulating one or more post synaptic regions. 5. The invention of claim 1 additionally comprising bias adaptation network means for dynamically controlling an operational parameter of said means for simulating an axon hillock, said operational parameter selected from the group consisting of a threshold/delay level, an action potential pulsewidth level, and a refractory period. 6. The invention of claim 1 additionally comprising bias adaptation network means for dynamically controlling an operational parameter of said means for simulating a chemical synapse, said operational parameter selected from the group consisting of a current amplitude, a current duration, and a delay period. 7. The invention of claim 1 wherein said means for sending signals comprises means for sending asynchronous pulsed signals. 8. The invention of claim 7 wherein said means for sending asynchronous pulsed signals comprises means for varying threshold/delay, pulsewidth, and refractory period of said asynchronous pulsed signals. 9. The invention of claim 1 additionally comprising asynchronous reset means for returning said processing element to a set of initial conditions. 10. A method of processing signals asynchronously comprising the steps of: a) receiving one or more asynchronous action potential signals; b) providing the action potential signals to one or more chemical synapse simulation means; c) modifying the amount of energy stored in a neuron soma simulation means according to the action potential signals provided in step b); and d) sending an asynchronous action potential signal from axon hillock simulation means according to the amount of energy stored in the neuron soma simulation means. 11. A method of processing asynchronous signals, the method comprising the steps of: (a) simulating one or more chemical synapses; (b) simulating a neuron soma; (c) simulating one or more dendrites operably connecting the simulated chemical synapses to the simulated neuron soma; (d) simulating an axon; (e) simulating an axon hillock operably connecting the simulated neuron soma to the simulated axon; (f) receiving asynchronous signals and providing the signals to the simulated chemical synapses; and (g) sending asynchronous signals from the simulated axon. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of simulating one or more chemical synapses comprises the step of simulating one or more chemical synapses selected from the group consisting of excitatory synapses, inhibitory synapses, and shunting synapses. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of simulating one or more chemical synapses comprises the step of simulating one or more presynaptic regions. 14. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of simulating one or more chemical synapses comprises the step of simulating one or more post synaptic regions. 15. The method of claim 11 additionally comprising the step of providing a bias adaption network for dynamically controlling an operational parameter of the simulated axon hillock, the operational parameter selected from the group consisting of a threshold/delay level, an action potential pulsewidth level, and a refractory period. 16. The method of claim 11 additionally comprising the step of providing a bias adaption network for dynamically controlling an operational parameter of the simulated chemical synapses, the operational parameter selected from the group consisting of a current amplitude, a current duration, and a delay period. 17. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of sending asynchronous signals comprises the step of sending asynchronous pulsed signals. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the step of sending asynchronous pulsed signals comprises the step of varying threshold/delay, pulsewidth, and the refractory period of the asynchronous pulsed signals. 19. The method of claim 11 additionally comprising the step of returning to a set of initial conditions by asynchronous reset. 