A storage conveyer for workpieces is movable between selected locations to carry work pieces from one machine to another whilst maintaining the integrity of a batch. An endless chain is wound in a double helix configuration, each helix being supported on a respective driven shaft and an idler shaft. The chain carries pallets for supporting workpieces. The pallets are stepped through a loading location under the control of the manual worker and through a load/unload location where they are accessible to a robot machine, which may be given control of the chain drive. Location is at a lower position and extends out of the helical chain run to provide access for the robot machine.
Claims We claim: 1. A storage conveyor comprising a housing with walled sides within which an endless conveyor means is wound in a double helix configuration, said conveyor means carrying a series of support means for workpieces, in which said conveyor means is drivable to step said support means to descend one helical path and climb the other helical path, said housing further comprising a lateral extension housing with walled sides mounted approximately half way up a first side of said housing and having an open top, an extension of one of said helixes mounted to move through said lateral extension and to carry said support means in turn therethrough such that each support means may be loaded or unloaded from above said lateral extension through said open top during operation of said conveyor. 2. A storage conveyor as claimed in claim 1, wherein a second load/unload location is provided on a top run of said helix. 3. A storage conveyor as claimed in claim 1, wherein said support means comprise pallets which are attached to said conveyor means midway between sides of said pallets, said pallets resting at said sides on guide rails. 4. A storage conveyor as claimed in claim 3, wherein a first pallet is loosely attached to said conveyor means to allow vertical and horizontal play between said first pallet and said conveyor means, stops being provided to limit horizontal swivelling movement between said first pallet and conveyor means. 5. A storage conveyor as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a plurality of supporting feet provided on said conveyor and location means provided at a predetermined on the floor location to receive said supporting feet thereby accurately locating said housing relative to said floor. 6. A storage conveyor as claimed in claim 1, wherein each said helix is supported on a respective pair of shafts, each said shaft carrying a plurality of sprockets for supporting said conveyor means, wherein a first shaft is driven, a single sprocket on each said driven shaft being fast with said shaft, and the remaining sprockets being a friction fit on said shafts at predetermined heights to allow relative rotation between said sprockets and shafts in response to variations in tension in said conveyor means. 7. A storage conveyor as claimed in claim 6, wherein said shafts are parallel and angled to the vertical by from 1.degree. to 5.degree.. 