A fully automated robotized system and method is provided for cooking food products. The system and method is especially useful for use in a quick service or fast food restaurant and, in one embodiment, is capable of cooking, on a fully automated basis, french fries, chicken nuggets, fish filets and chicken patties. In one embodiment, the system includes a robot, a bulk uncooked food dispensing station, a cooking station and a cooked food storage station. The system can be controlled by a computer operating and control station that controls and directs the robot to obtain bulk food from the dispensing station, place it in cooking position at the cooking station and when cooked, remove the food and deliver it to the storage station, at a rate required to fill anticipated customer orders.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotized system for cooking food products comprising: (a) a robot capable of working in an area that determines a work area; (b) dispensing means for dispensing uncooked food products into a moveable container located in said work area comprising at least one bulk uncooked food dispenser; (c) cooking means for cooking food products comprising at least one cooking station is said work area; (d) storage means adjacent said work area for receiving and storing cooked food; (e) dump means for dumping into said storage means food products cooked by said cooking means and delivered to said dump means by said robot via said container; and (f) an end of arm robot tool for said robot, said robot capable of, in conjunction with said end of arm tool, selectively engaging, disengaging and moving said container to desired locations in said work area while said food products are contained in said container, said desired locations including an uncooked food dispensing location for receiving food products into said container from said food dispenser, a cooking location at said cooking station for cooking said food products and a dumping location where cooked food products are unloaded from said container. 2. The robotized system of claim 1 wherein said cooking station comprises at least one fry vat for cooking said food products in a cooking fluid. 3. The system of claim 2 further comprising skimming means engageable by said end of arm tool and operable by said robot for skimming surface impurities from the surface of cooking fluid contained in said fry vat. 4. The system of claim 2 further comprising liquid level measuring means operable by said robot, for determining the level of cooking fluid in said fry vat. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said measuring means comprises an ultrasonic liquid level detector. 6. The system of claim 2 further comprising filling means for adding cooking fluid to said fry vat, said filling means comprising a cooking fluid reservoir moveable by said robot. 7. The robotized system of claim 1 wherein said cooking station comprises first and second fry vats. 8. The robotized system of claim 1 further comprising said container. 9. The robotized system of claim 8 wherein said container means comprises at least one fry basket. 10. The robotized system of claim 9 wherein said container means comprises a plurality of fry baskets. 11. The robotized system of claim 1 wherein said dispensing means comprises a first food dispenser that is a french fry dispenser and a second food dispenser that is a chicken nugget dispenser. 12. The robotized system of claim 11 further comprising a third food dispenser for dispensing fish filets. 13. The robotized system of claim 12 further comprising a fourth food dispenser for dispensing chicken patties. 14. The robotized system of claim 13 wherein said cooking station comprises at least one separate fry vat for each of said types of food products. 15. The robotized system of claim 9 further comprising storage means for cooked french fries and chicken nuggets. 16. The robotized system of claim 11 further comprising separate storage means for cooked french fries and chicken nuggets. 17. The robotized system of claim 11 further comprising storage means for cooked french fries and chicken nuggets. 18. The robotized system of claim 1 wherein said dispensing means can dispense at least one type of uncooked food product selected from the group consisting of french fries, chicken nuggets, fish fillets and chicken patties. 19. The robotized system of claim 1 wherein at least one separate container is provided for each type of uncooked product food. 20. The robotized system of claim 1 wherein said food dispenser is capable of dispensing a preselected amount of food products into said container. 21. The robotized system of claim 1 wherein said robot is ceiling mounted. 22. The robotized system of claim 1 further comprising computer operating and control means for controlling and directing said robot to engage and transport said container in sequence to and from said food dispensing station and to from said cooking station at a frequency based on an anticipated volume of customer orders. 23. The system of claim 22 wherein said anticipated volume of customer orders is based on stored data stored in said computer operating and control means. 24. The system of claim 23 wherein at least part of said stored data is based on data collected on a real time basis from customer orders for that day. 25. The system of claim 23 wherein at least a portion of said stored data is based on historical data. 26. The system of claim 23 wherein said stored data contains the anticipated volume of customer orders based on food product type on an hourly basis. 27. The system of claim 22 wherein said computer operating and control means includes conflict determining means for determining whether a proposed system operation would conflict with any current or future system operation already set in motion by dispensing food products for said current or future operation. 28. The system of claim 27 wherein said computer operating and control means includes means for determining when a proposed system operation can be started and completed without conflict with any current or future system operation already set in motion by dispensing food products for said current or future operation. 29. The system of claim 1 further comprising locator means for allowing said robot to position said container in said cooking location with respect to said cooking means and at a dumping location with respect to said dump means while said container is engaged to said robot, and for retaining said container in said desired positions when said robot disengages from said container. 30. The system of claim 29 wherein said locator means comprises, in conjunction with said container, at least one upwardly projecting locator pin and a complementary engagement aperture, either said locator pin or said aperture being fixed on each of said cooking means and dump means, and the other of said locator pin and aperture being fixed on said container. 31. The system of claim 30 wherein said locator means comprises either a spaced apart pair of said locator pins or a pair of similarly spaced apart complementary apertures at said cooking and dumping locations and the other of said pair of locator pins and pair of apertures being fixed on said container. 32. The system of claim 31 wherein said locator pins are fixed with respect to said cooking and dump positions and said apertures are fixed with respect to said container. 33. An automated method of cooking food products comprising utilizing the system of claim 1 to cook said food products. 34. An automatic robotized system for cooking food products comprising: (a) a food dispensing station comprising at least one food dispenser for dispensing uncooked food to a food container for holding a quantity of food in a work area; (b) at least one cooking station in said work area for cooking food in said container; (c) a robot capable of engaging, transporting and releasing said food container in said work area, said container selectively engageable and moveable by said robot to desired locations, including a dispensing position as said food is dispensed into said container and to a cooking position at said cooking station; and (d) computer control means for controlling and directing said robot to engage and transport said container in sequence to and from said food dispenser and to and from said cooking station at a frequency determined by said computer control means based on the frequency and quantity of food ordered by customers. 35. The system of claim 34 wherein said system comprises a plurality of said food dispensers for dispensing different types of uncooked food. 36. The system of claim 35 wherein said system comprises a plurality of said food containers equal or greater in number to the number of food dispensers. 37. The system of claim 36 wherein said cooking station further comprises a plurality of frying vats. 38. The system of claim 36 wherein said computer control means includes memory means containing a daily plan of varying production rates as a function of time and food type. 39. The system of claim 38 wherein said computer control means includes means for monitoring and gathering sales data based on actual sales of cooked food by type and quantity on a real time basis and means for adjusting said daily plan. 40. The system of claim 38 wherein said computer control means further includes a short-term plan of robot and station functions. 41. An automated method of cooking food products comprising utilizing the system of claim 34 to cook said food products. 42. A fully automated robotized fry cell for processing bulk uncooked french fries, chicken nuggets, fish filets and chicken patties comprising: (a) a dispensing station comprising a plurality of food dispensers including a french fry dispenser, a chicken nugget dispenser, a fish filet dispenser and a chicken patty dispenser, each dispenser capable of dispensing an amount of food into a container; (b) a cooking station comprising at least one fry vat; (c) a robot capable of working in an area that determines a work area; (d) an end of arm robot tool for said robot, said robot capable of, in conjunction with said end of arm tool, selectively engaging, disengaging and moving, in said work area to said stations while engaged, said container for holding a quantity of food from said dispensing station; (e) said dispensing station and said cooking station being located with respect to said work area so that said robot can place said container in a food receiving position with respect to any of said plurality of food dispensers, and in a cooking position with respect to said fry vat; and (f) locator means for allowing said robot to position said container and for retaining said container in a desired cooking position in said fry vat. 43. The fry cell of claim 41 wherein said locator means comprises at least one upwardly projecting locator pin and a complementary engagement aperture for said locator pin, either said aperture or said pin being associated with said fry vat and the other being associated with said container, so that when said pin is inserted within said aperture said container is located and retained in cooking position with respect to said fry vat. 44. The fry cell of claim 43 wherein said locator means comprises a pair of said locator pins spaced apart and a complementary pair of similarly spaced apart engagement apertures. 45. The fry cell of claim 44 wherein said locator pins are associated with said fry vat and said engagement apertures are associated with said container. 46. The fry cell of claim 45 wherein said apertures are located on a gripper block secured to said container, said gripper block being engageable by said end of arm robot tool for moving said container to a desired location in said work area. 47. An automated method of cooking food products comprising utilizing the system of claim 41 to cook said food products. 48. An automated system for cooking food products comprising: (a) a work area containing dispensing, cooking and storage stations and defining an area in which an operator can interface with said stations; (b) said dispensing station for dispensing bulk, uncooked food and comprising at least one food dispenser for dispensing uncooked food pieces into a moveable container located in said work area; (c) said cooking station comprising at least one frying vat; (d) said storage station for receiving and storing cooked food; (e) automated dump means for automatically dumping into said storage means food cooked by said cooking station in response to food being delivered and placed on said dump means by the operator. 49. The system of claim 48 wherein said first food dispenser is a french fry dispenser and said system further comprises a said second food dispenser that is a chicken nugget dispenser. 50. The system of claim 49 further comprising a third food dispenser for dispensing fish filets. 51. The system of claim 50 further comprising a fourth food dispenser for dispensing chicken patties. 52. The system of claim 51 further comprising at least one separate fry vat for each of said types of food. 53. The system of claim 50 further comprising storage means for cooked french fries and chicken nuggets. 54. The system of claim 49 further comprising separate storage means for cooked french fries and chicken nuggets. 55. The system of claim 49 further comprising storage means for french fries and chicken nuggets. 56. The system of claim 48 wherein said food dispensing station can dispense at least one type of uncooked food selected from the group consisting of french fries, chicken nuggets, fish filets and chicken patties. 57. The system of claim 48 wherein each of said food dispensers is capable of dispensing a preselected amount of food into said container. 58. The system of claim 48 further comprising computer operating and control means for controlling and directing the operator to engage and transport said food container in sequence to and from said food dispensing station and to and from said cooking station at a frequency based on an anticipated volume of customer orders. 59. The system of claim 58 wherein said computer operating and control means includes conflict determining means for determining whether a proposed system operation would conflict with any current or future system operation already set in motion by dispensing food for said current or future operation. 60. The system of claim 59 wherein said computer operating and control means includes means for determining when a proposed system operation can be started and completed without conflict with any current or future system operation already set in motion by dispensing food for said current or future operation. 61. The system of claim 58 wherein said anticipated volume of customer orders is based on stored data stored in said computer operating and control means. 62. The system of claim 61 wherein at least part of said stored data is based on data collected on a real time basis from customer orders for that day. 63. The system of claim 61 wherein at least a portion of said data is based on historical data. 64. The system of claim 61 wherein said stored data contains the anticipated volume of customer orders based on food type on an hourly basis. 65. The system of claim 48 further comprising locator means for allowing the operator to position said container means in cooking position with respect to said cooking means and at a dump position with respect to said dump means and for retaining said container means in said desired positions when said operator disengages from said container means. 66. The system of claim 65 wherein said locator means comprises, in conjunction with said container means, at least one upwardly projecting locator pin and a complementary engagement aperture, either said locator pin or said aperture being fixed on each of said cooking means and dump means, and the other of said locator pin and aperture being fixed on said container means. 67. The system of claim 66 wherein said locator means comprises either a spaced apart pair of said locator pins or a pair of similarly spaced apart complementary apertures at each cooking and dump position and the other of said pair of locator pins and pair of apertures being fixed on said container. 68. The system of claim 67 wherein said locator pins are fixed with respect to said cooking and dump positions and said apertures are fixed with respect to said container. 69. An automated method of cooking food products comprising utilizing the system of claim 48 to cook said food products. 70. An operating and control system for a system for cooking a plurality of types of food products having a robot capable of engaging, transporting and releasing a food container in a work area, a food dispensing station comprising at least one food dispenser for dispensing uncooked food to said food container in said work area, a cooking station comprising at least one cooking apparatus in said work area and at least one food container selectively engageable and movable by said robot for holding a quantity of food dispensed from said food dispenser and for holding said quantity of food in cooking position with respect to said cooking means, said operating and control system comprising a computer operating and control system for controlling and directing said robot to engage and transport said food container in sequence to and from said food dispenser and to and from said cooking means at a frequency determined by said computer means based on the anticipated frequency and quantity of food products ordered by customers. 71. The system of claim 70 wherein said computer control system includes memory means containing a daily plan of varying production rates as a function of time and food type. 72. The system of claim 71 wherein said computer control system includes means for monitoring and gathering sales data based on actual sales of cooked food by type and quantity on a real time basis and means for adjusting said daily plan in response to said real time sales data. 73. The system of claim 71 wherein said computer control means further includes a short-term plan of robot and station functions. 74. The system of claim 73 wherein at least part of said short-term plan is based on data collected on a real time basis from customer orders for that day. 75. The system of claim 71 wherein at least a portion of said daily plan is based on historical data. 76. The system of claim 71 wherein said memory means contains the anticipated volume of customer orders based on food type on an hourly basis. 77. The system of claim 70 wherein said computer operating and control system includes conflict determining means for determining whether a proposed system operation would conflict with any current or future system operation already set in motion by dispensing food for said current or future operation. 78. The system of claim 77 wherein said computer operating and control system includes means for determining when a proposed system operation can be started and completed without conflict with any current or future system operation already set in motion by dispensing food for said current or future operation. 79. An automatic robotized system for cooking food products comprising: (a) a computer controlled robot capable of selectively engaging, transporting and releasing a food container for holding a quantity of food in a work area; (b) a computer controlled food dispensing station comprising at least one food dispenser for dispensing uncooked food to said food container in said work area; (c) at least one computer controlled cooking station in said work area; (d) computer control means for controlling and directing said robot to engage and transport said food container in sequence to and from said food dispenser and to and from said cooking means at a frequency determined by said computer means based on the frequency of customer orders, and for monitoring, controlling and operating said food dispensing station and said cooking station. 80. The system of claim 79 wherein said system comprises a plurality of food dispensers for dispensing different types of uncooked food. 81. The system of claim 80 wherein said system comprises a plurality of said food containers equal or greater in number to the number of food dispensers. 82. The system of claim 81 wherein said cooking station comprises a plurality of cooking frying vats. 83. The system of claim 80 wherein said computer control means includes memory means containing a daily plan of varying production rates as a function of time and food type. 84. The system of claim 83 wherein said computer control means includes means for monitoring and gathering sales data based on actual sales of cooked food by type and quantity on a real time basis and means for adjusting said daily plan. 85. The system of claim 84 wherein said computer control means further includes a short-term plan of robot and station functions. 86. An automated method of cooking food products comprising utilizing the system of claim 74 to cook said food products. 87. A fully automated robotized fry cell for processing bulk uncooked french fries, chicken nuggets, fish filets and chicken patties comprising: (a) a computer controlled dispensing station comprising a plurality of food dispensers including a french fry dispenser, a chicken nugget dispenser, a fish filet dispenser and a chicken patty dispenser, each dispenser capable of dispensing food into container means for holding a quantity of food; (b) a computer controlled cooking station comprising at least one fry vat; (c) a computer controlled robot having at least one robot arm capable of movement over an area that determines the robot work area; (d) an end of arm robot tool for said robot, said robot capable of, in conjunction with said end of arm tool, selectively engaging, disengaging and moving in said work area to desired locations while engaging said container means for holding a quantity of food from said dispensing station; (e) said dispensing station and said cooking station being located with respect to said work area so that said robot can place said container means in a food receiving position with respect to any of said plurality of food dispensers, and in a cooking position with respect to said fry vat; and (f) locator means for allowing said robot to position said container means and for retaining said container means in a desired cooking position in said fry vat. 88. The fry cell of claim 87 wherein said locator means comprises at least one upwardly projecting locator pin and a complementary engagement aperture for said locator pin, either said aperture or said pin being associated with said fry vat and the other being associated with said container means, so that when said pin is inserted within said aperture said container means is located and retained in cooking position with respect to said fry vat. 89. The fry cell of claim 88 wherein said locator means comprises a pair of said locator pins spaced apart and a complementary pin of similarly spaced apart engagement apertures. 90. The fry cell of claim 89 wherein said locator pins are associated with said fry vat and said engagement apertures are associated with said container means. 91. The fry cell of claim 90 wherein said apertures are located on a gripper block secured to said container means, said gripper block being engageable by said end of arm robot tool for moving said container means to a desired location in said work area. 92. A fully automated method of processing french fries, chicken nuggets, fish filets and chicken patties comprising utilizing the system of claim 87. 93. A scheduling system for operating an automated robotized system for simultaneously handling and cooking a plurality of types of food batches which operates by a robot performing a first cycle requiring a time period A, which first cycle includes obtaining and transporting a batch of uncooked food to a cooking station and thereafter performing a second cycle requiring a time period B after the food batch has cooked for time C, and includes retrieving the cooked food batch from the cooking station and delivering the cooked food batch to a predetermined location, said scheduling system comprising: (a) memory storage means for storing the time periods A and B; (b) computer processing and scheduling means for: (i) determining the periods of time scheduled if other food batches already in progress; (ii) locating the first available time period greater or equal to time period A; (iii) determining whether an unscheduled time period greater than or equal to time period B and beginning at time C after time period A is available and if said unscheduled time period is available in said memory storage means, scheduling time period B in said period; and (iv) if no such unscheduled time period is available, said processing means locates the next available time for time period A and repeats steps (iii) and (iv) if necessary until said unscheduled time period is located and scheduled. 94. A robotized system for cooking food products comprising: (a) a robot having at least one arm capable of engaging, transporting and releasing a food container in an area that determines a work area; (b) at least one food dispenser for dispensing a predetermined food batch consisting of a plurality of uncooked food pieces into a moveable container means located in said work area; (c) at least one cooking station for cooking food and positioned to allow said robot to place said container means in cooking position with respect to said cooking station; and (d) receiving means adjacent said work area for receiving cooked food delivered by said robot. 95. The robotized system of claim 1 wherein said cooking station comprises at least one fry vat for cooking food in a cooking fluid. 96. The robotized system of claim 95 wherein a different food container is assigned to each cooking location. 97. The robotized system of claim 94 wherein said cooking station comprises first and second fry vats and each vat has a plurality of cooking locations, each location capable of accommodating a food container for cooking the food contained in said container. 98. The robotized system of claim 94 wherein said food dispenser is a french fry dispenser and said system further comprises a said second food dispenser that is a chicken nugget dispenser. 99. The robotized system of claim 98 further comprising a third food dispenser for dispensing fish filets. 100. The robotized system of claim 99 further comprising a fourth food dispenser for dispensing chicken patties. 101. The robotized system of claim 94 further comprising a storage means for cooked french fries and chicken nuggets. 102. The robotized system of claim 94 wherein at least one separate container is provided for each type of uncooked food. 103. The robotized system of claim 94 wherein said food dispenser is capable of dispensing a preselected amount of food into said container. 104. The robotized system of claim 94 further comprising computer operating and control means for controlling and directing said robot to engage and transport said food container in sequence to and from said food dispensing station and to and from said cooking means at a frequency based on an anticipated volume of customer orders. 105. The system of claim 104 wherein said anticipated volume of customer orders is based on stored data stored in said computer operating and control means. 106. The system of claim 105 wherein at least part of said stored data is based on data collected on a real time basis from customer orders for that day. 107. The system of claim 106 wherein at least a portion of said data is based on historical data. 108. The system of claim 105 wherein said stored data contains the anticipated volume of customer orders based on food type on an hourly basis. 109. The system of claim 104 wherein said computer operating and control means includes conflict determining means for determining whether a proposed system operation would conflict with any current or future system operation already set in motion by dispensing food for said current or future operation. 110. The system of claim 109 wherein said computer operating and control means includes means for determining when a proposed system operation can be started and completed without conflict with any current or future system operation already set in motion by dispensing food for said current or future operation. 111. The system of claim 104 wherein said computer control and operating means includes memory means containing a daily plan of varying production rates as a function of time and food type. 112. The system of claim 111 wherein said computer control means includes means for monitoring and gathering sales data based on actual sales of cooked food by type and quantity on a real time basis and means for adjusting said daily plan. 113. The system of claim 111 wherein said computer control means further includes a short-term plan of robot and station functions. 114. The system of claim 104 wherein said computer operating and control means controls said food dispensing station by causing said station to dispense a preselected amount of food at a desired time. 115. The system of claim 94 further comprising locator means for allowing said robot to position said container means in cooking position with respect to said cooking station while said container means is engaged to said robot, and for retaining said container means in said desired positions when said robot disengages from said container means. 116. The system of claim 115 wherein said locator means comprises, in conjunction with said container means, at least one upwardly projecting locator pin and a complementary engagement aperture, either said locator pin or said aperture being fixed on each of said cooking means, and the other of said locator pin and aperture being fixed on said container means. 117. The system of claim 116 wherein said locator means comprises either a spaced apart pair of said locator pins or a pair of similarly spaced apart complementary apertures at each cooking position and the other of said pair of locator pins and pair of apertures being fixed on said container means. 118. The system of claim 117 wherein said locator pins are fixed with respect to said cooking positions and said apertures are fixed with respect to said container means. 