Total analysis systems and methods for simultaneously monitoring a suite of biological and/or chemical species in water and/or other process systems are disclosed. The system provides a sample-volume controlled sensor array comprising a fluid delivery device and a plurality of optical sensor elements for determining the presence and total concentrations of multiple analytes in the process system simultaneously. Delivery means are provided to deliver a metered quantity of sample fluid to the sensor array. Image identification algorithms are provided for identifying the analytes based on image intensity, color pattern, positional arrangement, and the like. The methods incorporate multivariate optimization algorithms to analyze multiple sensor responses. This produces analytical results that are typically difficult to obtain without full system or variable compensation. The improved array response may then be utilized to measure, monitor, and control the concentration of analytes in the chemical or biological sample or water system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for simultaneously measuring a plurality of biological or chemical analytes in a fluid, said system comprising: a substrate comprising a plurality of sensor elements, each said sensor element responding to at least one of said plurality of analytes; at least one light source for directing light onto said sensor elements; a detector means for detecting a response from said sensor elements, wherein said detector means includes a processor that is programmed to: convert said response from each of said sensor elements into a digital record; execute an image identification algorithm for identifying said at least one analyte based on said digital record, wherein an analyte identification output is produced for each of said at least one analyte identified; and execute an optimization algorithm for identifying a concentration for each of said at least one analyte, wherein a concentration output is produced for each analyte identification output; and a delivery means for delivering metered quantities of said fluid to each said sensor element, wherein said delivery means comprises a delivery device comprising a plurality of reservoirs communicating with said sensor elements, said delivery device further comprising a sample entry port and a plurality of hydrophilic fluidic channels, said channels being connected between said reservoirs and said entry port so as to transport a controlled volume of said fluid between said entry port and said reservoirs, said delivery device further comprising a cover layer attached to said delivery device, said cover layer comprising a plurality of substantially hydrophobic vent holes disposed above said reservoirs, said cover layer further comprising a substantially hydrophilic bottom surface for providing a hydrophilic roof portion above said reservoirs to facilitate transport of said fluid to said reservoirs. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said sensor elements are disposed within said reservoirs or on a bottom surface of said cover layer. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said delivery device permanently adheres to said substrate. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said delivery device detachably adheres to said substrate. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said delivery device further comprises an o-ring operatively associated with said entry port, said o-ring being adapted to absorb excess fluid that spills over the top of said delivery device. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said substrate is a DVD, CD, double-layer, or blu-ray disk. 7. The system of claim 6, further comprising an optical drive for quantifying said response, wherein said delivery means comprises a disk case for enclosing said substrate. 8. The system of claim 7, further comprising a blotting layer to remove excess fluid from said substrate. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said channels are capillary channels adapted to transport said metered quantities of said fluid from said entry port to said reservoirs by capillary force without the use of wicking materials or pumps. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein said delivery means comprises means for delivering said fluid to said sensor elements by way of electro-osmotic flow, electro-wetting, thermo-capillary pumping, magnetic fields, surface directed flow, electro-chemical control, mechanical devices, centripetal force, surface energy gradients, or combinations thereof. 