An apparatus for assembling a miniaturized device includes a manipulator system including six manipulators operable to position and orient components of the miniaturized device with submicron precision and micron-level accuracy. The manipulator system includes a first plurality of motorized axes, a second plurality of manual axes, and force and torque and sensors. Each of the six manipulators includes at least one translation stage, at least one rotation stage, tooling attached to the at least one translation stage or the at least one rotation stage, and an attachment mechanism disposed at a distal end of the tooling and operable to attach at least a portion of the miniaturized device to the tooling. The apparatus also includes an optical coordinate-measuring machine (OCMM) including a machine-vision system, a laser-based distance-measuring probe, and a touch probe. The apparatus also includes an operator control system coupled to the manipulator system and the OCMM.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for assembling a miniaturized device, the apparatus comprising: a manipulator system including six manipulators, the manipulator system comprising a first plurality of motorized axes and a second plurality of manual axes, wherein the six manipulators are operable to position and orient components of the miniaturized device with submicron precision and micron-level accuracy, each of the six manipulators comprising: at least one translation stage operable to provide at least one translational degree of freedom; at least one rotation stage operable to provide at least one rotational degree of freedom; tooling attached to the at least one translation stage or the at least one rotation stage; and an attachment mechanism disposed at a distal end of the tooling and operable to attach at least a portion of the miniaturized device to the tooling; an optical coordinate-measuring machine (OCMM) comprising: a machine-vision system; a laser-based distance-measuring probe; and a touch probe operable to provide micron-level accuracy dimensional measurements of the miniaturized device; and an operator control system coupled to the manipulator system and the OCMM, wherein two of the six manipulators further comprise force/torque sensors mechanically coupled to the tooling and operable to provide force resolution at levels less than 10 grams and torque resolution at levels less than 500 gram-millimeters. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the miniaturized device comprises a nuclear fusion ignition target. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the manipulator system is reconfigurable to accommodate different designs for the nuclear fusion ignition target. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the six manipulators comprise two thermo-mechanical package manipulators, a diagnostic band manipulator, two capsule manipulators, and a target base manipulator. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first plurality of motorized axes comprises 19 motorized axes. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second plurality of manual axes comprises 10 motorized axes. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the attachment mechanism comprises a vacuum chuck. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the third plurality of sensors are operable to provide force resolution at levels less than 1 gram and torque resolution at levels less than 50 gram-millimeters. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein the third plurality of sensors are operable to provide force resolution at levels less than 0.1 gram and torque resolution at levels less than 5 gram-millimeters. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein two of the six manipulators further comprise a tilt/roll/yaw stage operable to provide three rotational degrees of freedom. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of the touch probe, the machine-vision system, or the laser-based distance-measuring probe is further operable to provide micron-level accuracy dimensional measurements of a base for the miniaturized device, wherein the base is separated from the miniaturized device by greater than 10 cm. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the machine-vision system is operable to utilize edge-detection algorithms to provide distance measurement between at least two features. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the machine vision system includes auxiliary mirrors operable to provide the OCMM with multiple viewing directions of the miniaturized device. 14. A system for assembling nuclear fusion ignition targets, the system comprising: two capsule manipulators each including three motorized translation stages and one manual rotation stage, first tooling, and a first vacuum chuck; a diagnostic band manipulator including a two motorized translation stages, one motorized rotation stage, and two manual rotation stages, second tooling, and a second vacuum chuck; two thermal-mechanical package (TMP) manipulators each including three motorized translation stages, an extension arm, force/torque sensors , three manual rotation stages, third tooling, and a third vacuum chuck; a target base manipulator including three motorized translation stages, one motorized rotation stage, and fourth tooling; an optical coordinate-measuring machine (OCMM) comprising: a machine-vision system including auxiliary mirrors operable to provide the OCMM with multiple viewing directions of the nuclear fusion ignition targets; a laser-based distance-measuring probe; and a touch probe operable to provide micron-level accuracy dimensional measurements of the nuclear fusion ignition targets; and an operator control system coupled to the two capsule manipulators, the diagnostic band manipulator, the two TMP manipulators, the target base manipulator, and the OCMM. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the first vacuum chuck comprises a vacuum wand. 16. The system of claim 14 wherein the force/torque sensors are positioned between the extension arm and the three manual rotation stages. 17. The system of claim 14 wherein the force/torque sensors are positioned between the three manual rotation stages and the third tooling. 18. The system of claim 14 wherein the third tooling includes a kinematic coupling. 19. The system of claim 14 wherein the fourth tooling includes a kinematic coupling. 20. The system of claim 14 wherein the three manual rotation stages of the two TMP manipulators comprise pitch/roll/yaw stages. 21. The system of claim 14 wherein the operator control system comprises a controller, one or more user input devices, and one or more user output devices. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein the one or more user output devices comprise a plurality of linear torque and force measurement graphics. 23. The system of claim 22 wherein force/torque sensors are operable to provide force resolution at levels less than 10 grams and torque resolution at levels less than 500 gram-millimeters. 24. The system of claim 23 wherein force/torque sensors are operable to provide force resolution at levels less than 1 grams and torque resolution at levels less than 50 gram-millimeters. 25. The system of claim 24 wherein force/torque sensors are operable to provide force resolution at levels less than 0.1 gram and torque resolution at levels less than 5 gram-millimeters. 26. The system of claim 14 wherein each of the nuclear fusion ignition targets include a capsule, a capsule fill-tube, a hohlraum, a diagnostic band, a lower TMP half, and an upper TMP half. 27. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the machine-vision system is operable to utilize edge-detection algorithms to provide distance measurement between at least two features. 