A parts feeder is provided for singulating a plurality of different unique parts without major modification. The feeder has a fabric oriented platform which is mounted on top of a vibrator. A load section is provided for accepting the parts in bulk and imparting movement to the parts in a general first direction. A compound inclined ramp section which is also fabrically oriented imparts movement to the parts in a second direction and causes the non-singulated parts to fall and return to the load section. A second drop off ramp accepts the singulated parts from the first ramp imparts movement of the singulated parts to a desired workstation. A gate is mounted between the load section and the inclined ramp. In a closed position the gate allows the unique parts to move between the load section and the first ramp. In the open position the gate allows the feeder to purge itself of the unique parts to an external source and thereby prepare the feeder for singulation of a second unique part differing from the first unique parts without further adjustment.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privelege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A parts feeder for singulating a plurality of different unique parts, said feeder in combination comprising: a vibrator means; and a fabric oriented platform mounted onto said vibrator means, said platform including: a load section in response to the vibrator means for accepting unique parts in bulk with fabric oriented to impart movement of said parts in a general first direction in response to the vibrator means; a first compound inclined ramp section connectable to said load section and having fabric oriented to impart movement of said parts in a general second direction in response to the vibrator means and being inclined to cause non-singulated parts to fall and return to said load section; a second drop off ramp for accepting singulated parts from said first ramp and with fabric oriented to impart movement to said singulated parts to a desired workstation; and a gate mounted between said load section in response to the vibrator means and said inclined ramp whereby said gate in a closed position allowing said unique parts movement between said load section and said first ramp and said gate in said open position allowing said feeder to purge itself of said first unique part to an external source and thereafter the reclosing of said gate said feeder can be used to singulate a second unique part differing from said first unique part without further adjustment. 2. A feeder as described in claim 1 further including a secondary exit path section providing an alternative path to said including ramp section, said secondary path section connecting said load section with said desired workstation and said secondary exit path having paddle means to urge properly oriented unique parts to said secondary exit path section allowing improperly oriented unique parts to proceed to said inclined ramp section. 