In a human-in-the-loop robotic control loop, the constrained forces and moments at the gripper (also called hand or end effector) of the manipulator are measured by a force-mement sensor. The resulting force and moment signals are scaled and fed as input voltages to motors in a hand controller to provide torques which oppose deflection of the hand controller. Thus, the operator feels the opposing torques which are proportional to the magnitude of the constrained forces and moments. The force feedback loop may be opened to selectively provide a passive control loop. In either the active or passive mode, the hand controller position signals may be selectively mapped to either gripper position signals or gripper velocity signals in order to control movement of the gripper in the desired manner.
Claims We claim: 1. A human-in-the-loop control loop for a machine having a plurality of joints and an operative part, said plurality of joints adapted for moving said operative part, comprising: (a) a hand controller having at least one degree of freedom so as to be deflectable in order to provide hand controller position signals for moving said operative part, said hand controller, in each degree of freedom, controlling motion of said operative part along one path; (b) position mapping means to map each of said hand controller position signals to an operative part position command signal indicative of a position for said operative part along each of said at least one path; (c) velocity mapping means to map each of said hand controller position signals to an operative part velocity command signal indicative of a velocity for said operative part along each of said at least one path; (d) selector means to selectively activate said position mapping means and deactivate said velocity mapping means or activate said velocity mapping means and deactivate said position mapping means; and (e) resolving means responsive to said selector means for resolving operative part position command signals to joint command signals and operative part velocity command signals to joint command signals for controlling the movement of each of said joints. 2. The control loop of claim 1 further comprising torque generator means for generating torques to oppose deflection of said hand controller and hand controller position feedback means to generate difference signals between said hand controller position signals and selectable hand controller reference position signals and to negatively feed back a function of said difference signals to said torque generator means in order to generate torques opposing deflection of said hand controller from a reference position and switch means to turn said hand controller position feedback means on or off. 3. The control loop of claim 2 further including gravity compensation means to receive said hand controller position signals, to map said signals to gravity compensation signals proportional to the torque due to gravity on said hand controller at the hand controller position corresponding to said hand controller position signals and to negatively feed back a function of said gravity compensation signals to said torque generator means. 4. The control loop of claim 3 including operative part position indicating means for indicating the position of said operative part, memory means for storing an indication of certain positions of said operative part, comparator means for comparing the position of said operative part indicated by said operative part position indicating means with said stored indications of certain positions and for generating a comparison signal, and wherein said torque generator means is also responsive to said comparison signal whereby torques are generated to oppose certain deflections of said hand controller in order to avoid the movement of said operative part to positions represented by said stored positions. 5. The control loop of claim 1 wherein said hand controller has three degrees of freedom with each of said three degrees of freedom of said hand controller controlling motion of said operative part in one of the three spatial dimensions. 6. The control loop of claim 5 wherein said machine is a robotic manipulator and said operative part is the gripper of said robotic manipulator. 7. The control loop of claim 5 wherein said hand controller has three degrees of freedom and comprises a gimbal frame supporting a joystick rotatable about its longitudinal axis. 8. The control loop of claim 5 wherein said hand controller has three degrees of freedom and comprises: (a) upstanding supports rotatably supporting a cradle; (b) an arm received by said cradle such that the longitudinal axis of said arm is perpendicular to the axis of rotation of said cradle, said arm having a forearm rotatable about its longitudinal axis; (c) a joystick supported for rotation about its longitudinal axis by said forearm such that the longitudinal axis of said joystick is substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of said forearm and is substantially perpendicular to the axis of rotation of said cradle. 9. The control loop of claim 2 wherein said hand controller has three degrees of freedom with each of said three degrees of freedom of said hand controller controlling motion of said operative part in one of the three spatial dimensions and including: sensing means responsive to a condition existing at said operative part for providing condition signals indicative of the intensity of said condition at said operative part in each of the three spatial dimensions; a condition feedback loop means comprising torque generator control signal production means for responding to said condition signals in order to produce torque generator control signals, said torque generator means for receiving a function of said torque generator control signals in order to generate torques to oppose deflection of said hand controller; and selector means to selectively close said condition feedback loop means. 10. The control loop of claim 9 wherein said sensing means comprise environmental field sensors. 11. The control loop of claim 9 wherein said sensing means comprise force sensors. 12. A human-in-the-loop control loop for a machine having a plurality of joints and an operative part, said plurality of joints adapted for moving said operative part, comprising: (a) a hard controller having at least one degree of freedom so as to be deflectable in order to provide hand controller position signals for moving said operative part, said hand controller, in each degree of freedom, controlling motion of said operative part along one path; (b) sensing means responsive to a condition existing at said operative part for providing condition signals indicative of the intensity of said condition at said operative part in a direction tangent to each said path; (c) a condition feedback loop means comprising torque generator control signal production means for responding to said condition signals in order to produce torque generator control signals and torque generator means for receiving a function of said torque generator control signals in order to generate torques to oppose deflection of said hand controller; (d) selector means to selectively close said condition feedback loop means; (e) position mapping means to map each of said hand controller position signals to an operative part position command signal indicative of a position for said operative part along each of said at least one path; (f) velocity mapping means to map each of said hand controller position signals to an operative part velocity command signal indicative of a velocity for said operative part along each of said at least one path; (d) selector means to selectively activate said position mapping means and deactivate said velocity mapping means or activate said velocity mapping means and deactivate said position mapping means; and (e) resolving means responsive to said selector means for resolving operative part position command signals to joint command signals and operative part velocity command signals to joint command signals for controlling the movement of each of said joint, whereby, when said condition feedback loop means is closed, the generated torque which opposes deflection of said hand controller in each degree of freedom of said hand controller is related to the intensity of said condition tangent to each said path. 13. The control loop of claim 12 wherein said machine is a robotic manipulator and said operative part is the gripper of said robotic manipulator. 14. The control loop of claim 12 further comprising hand controller position feedback means to generate difference signals between said hand controller position signals and selectable hand controller reference position signals and to negatively feed back a selectable function of said difference signals to said torque generator means in order to generate torques opposing deflection of said hand controller from a reference position and switch means to turn said hand controller position feedback means on or off. 15. The control loop of claim 14 including gravity compensation means to receive said hand controller position signals, to map said signals to gravity compensation signals proportional to the torque due to gravity on said hand controller at the hand controller position corresponding to said hand controller position signals and to negatively feed back a function of said gravity compensation signals to said torque generator means. 16. The control loop of claim 12 wherein said sensing means comprise environmental field sensors. 17. The control loop of claim 16 further comprising velocity feedback means to negatively feed back a function of the rate of movement of said hand controller in each degree of freedom of said hand controller to said torque generator means such that a torque proportional to the rate of movement of said hand controller in any given degree of freedom is generated to oppose the rate of deflection of said hand controller in said given degree of freedom. 18. A human-in-the-loop control loop for a robot arm terminating in a gripper and having a plurality of joints above said gripper, comprising: (a) a hand controller having three degrees of freedom so as to be deflectable in order to provide hand controller position signals for moving said gripper, each degree of freedom of said hand controller allowing said hand controller to control motion of said gripper in one spatial dimension; (b) position mapping means to map each of said hand controller position signals to a gripper position command signal indicative of a position for said gripper in the three spatial dimensions; (c) velocity mapping means to map each of said hand controller position signals to a gripper velocity command signal indicative of a velocity for said gripper in the three spatial dimensions; (d) selector means to selectively activate said position mapping means and deactivate said velocity mapping means or activate said velocity mapping means and deactivate said position mapping means; (e) resolving means responsive to said selector means for resolving gripper position command signals to joint command signals and gripper velocity command signals to joint command signals for controlling the movement of each of said joints; whereby, when said position mapping means is activated, said joints are moved in such a way as to move said gripper to the position indicated by said hand controller and when said velocity mapping means is activated, said joints are moved in such a way as to move said gripper in the velocity indicated by said hand controller. 