A method for manufacturing a vacuum cup mount including the steps of providing a housing having a mount base and a generally upstanding wall extending from the mount base, providing a retainer having an aperture that extends from an upper side of the retainer to a lower side of the retainer and a plurality of recesses formed on the lower side of the retainer in communication with the aperture, placing the retainer on the mount base so that the lower side of the retainer faces the mount base, and bending at least a portion of the generally upstanding wall so that the bent portion of the generally upstanding wall engages the upper surface of the retainer to secure the retainer with respect to the mount base.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing a vacuum cup mount, wherein the steps comprise: providing a housing having a mount base and a generally upstanding wall extending from the mount base to form a substantially continuous, circular wall; providing a retainer having an aperture that extends from an upper side of the retainer to a lower side of the retainer and a plurality of recesses formed on the lower side of the retainer in communication with the aperture; placing the retainer on the mount base so that the lower side of the retainer faces the mount base; and bending at least a majority of the generally upstanding wall so that the bent portion of the generally upstanding wall engages the upper surface of the retainer to secure the retainer with respect to the mount base. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps further comprise: forming a slot through the generally upstanding wall and forming an ear on the retainer to engage the slot in the generally upstanding wall to restrain rotation of the retainer with respect to the housing. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps further comprise: configuring the housing and the retainer to receive a bayonet coupling. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps further comprise: providing the plurality of recesses of the retainer, each having an arcuate wall and a substantially flat wall; and providing a bayonet coupling that is rotatable between an unlocked position, wherein the bayonet coupling is not disposed within the recesses of the retainer and a locked position, wherein at least a portion of the bayonet coupling is disposed within the recesses of the retainer and wherein the bayonet coupling engages the substantially flat walls of the recesses. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the steps further comprise: providing a locking member on the mount base that is moveable between an engaged position, wherein the locking member restrains the bayonet coupling against moving from the locked position to the unlocked position, and a disengaged position, wherein the locking member does not restrain movement of the bayonet coupling. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the steps further comprise: fabricating the housing from aluminum. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps further comprise: fabricating the housing from a first metal; and fabricating the retainer from a second metal that is different from the first metal. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps further comprise: fabricating the retainer from brass. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps further comprise: providing a first bore that extends completely through the housing between a first end of the first bore and a second end of the first bore and is in fluid communication with the mount base through a first port; placing a vacuum generator within the first bore for supplying negative pressure to the mount base through the first port in response to positive pressure; and connecting an air line to either the first end of the first bore or the second end of the first bore for supplying positive pressure to the vacuum generator. 10. A method of manufacturing a vacuum cup mount, comprising: providing a housing having a mount base and a generally upstanding wall extending from the mount base; providing a retainer having an aperture formed therethrough; placing the retainer on the mount base; bending at least a portion of the generally upstanding wall into engagement with the retainer to secure the retainer to the mount base; providing a vacuum cup having a bayonet coupling formed thereon; and securing the vacuum cup to the mount base by disposing at least a portion of the bayonet coupling between the retainer and the mount base. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the steps comprise: providing a substantially circular shape for the generally upstanding wall. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the steps further comprise: forming a slot through the generally upstanding wall and forming an ear on the retainer to engage the slot in the generally upstanding wall to restrain rotation of the retainer with respect to the housing. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the steps further comprise: providing the plurality of recesses of the retainer, each having an arcuate wall and a substantially flat wall; and providing a bayonet coupling that is rotatable between an unlocked position, wherein the bayonet coupling is not disposed within the recesses of the retainer and a locked position, wherein at least a portion of the bayonet coupling is disposed within the recesses of the retainer and wherein the bayonet coupling engages the substantially flat walls of the recesses. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the steps further comprise: providing a locking member on the mount base that is moveable between an engaged position, wherein the locking member restrains the bayonet coupling against moving from the locked position to the unlocked position, and a disengaged position, wherein the locking member does not restrain movement of the bayonet coupling. 15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: fabricating the housing from a first metal; and fabricating the retainer from a second metal that is different from the first metal. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the steps further comprise: fabricating the retainer from brass. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein the steps further comprise: fabricating the housing from aluminum. 18. The method of claim 10, further comprising: providing a first bore that extends completely through the housing between a first end of the first bore and a second end of the first bore and is in fluid communication with the mount base through a first port; placing a vacuum generator within the first bore for supplying negative pressure to the mount base through the first port in response to positive pressure; and connecting an air line to either the first end of the first bore or the second end of the first bore for supplying positive pressure to the vacuum generator. 19. The method of claim 10, wherein the steps further comprise: connecting a vacuum generator to one of a first end of a first bore or a second end of the first bore and connecting an air line to the one of the first end of the first bore or the second end of the first bore that is not connected to the vacuum generator. 