A self-stabilizing control circuit utilizing pulse delay circuits for controlling the limbs of a limbed robot, and a robot incorporating such a circuit, are provided. The pulse delay circuit acts as an artificial "neuron" which drives servo motors according to a selected sequence which is reconfigurable in response to signals from local or remote sensors. Also disclosed is a pulse neutralizing circuit which can be used to stabilize and reconfigure sequencing loops and chains incorporating the pulse delay circuit, and which can modify the actuation processes controlled thereby.
Claims I claim: 1. A sequencing circuit for controlling the motion of a mechanical limb actuated by at least servo motor, comprising a plurality of pulse delay circuits connected in series, in which each pulse delay circuit comprises an inverter for inverting an electrical pulse, the output of which is connected to a capacitor, the input of the next pulse delay circuit in the series being connected to the other side of the capacitor, and voltage threshold means for delaying the operation of the inverter until the capacitor has reached a predetermined charge. 2. The sequencing circuit of claim 1 in which the voltage threshold means is a Schmitt trigger. 3. The sequencing circuit of claim 1 including biasing means for selectively altering the charge rate of the capacitor to change the duration of the pulse delay. 4. The sequencing circuit of claim 2 in which the resistor has a resistance in the range of 5 m.OMEGA. to 10 M.OMEGA. and the capacitor has a capacitance approximating 0.1 .mu.F. 5. The sequencing circuit of claim 1 in which the inverter and the voltage threshold means comprise a hex Schmitt trigger inverter. 6. The sequencing circuit of claim 1 in which the pulse delay circuits are connected to form a closed loop. 7. The sequencing circuit of claim 1 in which some pulse delay circuits are connected to form a closed loop. 8. The sequencing circuit of claim 7 in which some pulse delay circuits are connected to form a chain. 9. The sequencing circuit of claim 8 in which the chain of pulse delay circuits includes a proximal pulse delay circuit, the input of which is connected to the output of one of the pulse delay circuits in the loop. 10. An autonomous device having at least one mechanical limb, comprising at least one servo motor attached to the limb to actuate motion thereof, a central sequencing loop comprising a plurality of pulse delay circuits connected in series to form a closed loop, and a limb control circuit comprising a chain of pulse delay circuits, the limb control circuit having a proximal pulse delay circuit, and an electrical power source for creating a source potential, whereby the input of the proximal pulse delay circuit in the limb control circuit is connected to an output of a pulse delay circuit in the central sequencing loop, such that a pulse propagating around the central sequencing loop periodically initiates activation of the proximal pulse delay circuit in the limb control circuit. 11. The device of claim 10 wherein each pulse delay circuit comprises an inverter having a voltage threshold connected in series to a capacitor, the input of the inverter being referenced to ground or to the source potential through a resistor. 12. The device of claim 10 including a pulse neutralizing circuit for retaining the capacitors in the central sequencing loop in a charged condition, the output of which is connected to the input of a pulse delay circuit in the central sequencing loop. 13. The device of claim 11 including a pulse neutralizing circuit for retaining the capacitors in the central sequencing loop in a charged condition, the output of which is connected to the input of a pulse delay circuit in the central sequencing loop. 14. The device of claim 12 in which the pulse neutralizing circuit comprises an inverter for inverting an electrical pulse, the output of which is connected to a resistor, the input of the inverter being referenced to ground or to a source potential through a capacitor, and voltage threshold means for delaying the operation of the inverter until the capacitor has reached a predetermined charge. 15. A walking device including a plurality of limbs actuated by servo motors, having a central sequencing loop comprising a plurality of pulse delay circuits connected in series to form a closed loop, each servo motor being connected to a chain of pulse delay circuits connected in series and having a proximal pulse delay circuit the input of which is connected to the output of one of the pulse delay circuits in the central sequencing loop, and means for connecting a power source to the pulse delay circuits. 16. The walking device of claim 15 in which the power source is a DC power source and the pulse delay circuits each comprise an inverter having a voltage threshold connected in series to a capacitor the other side of which capacitor is referenced to source potential or to ground through a resistor. 17. The walking device of claim 16 in which the inverter is a hex Schmitt trigger inverter. 18. The walking device of claim 17 further including a pulse neutralizing circuit comprising an inverter with a voltage threshold connected in series with a resistor the other side of which is referenced to source potential or to ground through a capacitor. 19. The walking device of claim 17 in which the resistor has a resistance in the range of 5 M.OMEGA. to 10 M.OMEGA. and the capacitor has a capacitance approximating 0.1 .mu.F. 