A container or array of containers that is are sealed with a peelable seal is transported via a conveyor along a processing path toward a desealing station at which an adhesive surface having a width substantially the same as or greater than the width of the seal is pressed against the upper surface of the peelable seal. A collection rod applies a downward pressure on the adhesive surface, pressing it against the seal and keeping the container or container array in position on the conveyor as the plate moves with the conveyor. As the leading edge of the seal passes the collection rod, the adhesive surface is rolled upward, away from the plane of the seal, pulling up on the leading edge of the seal to separate it from the container or container array while the container or container array is held down by the roller. The removed seal is then discarded.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A take-up reel in an apparatus for removal of a film seal covering substantially a full width of a plate containing a plurality of liquid samples in discrete wells, wherein the apparatus comprises a source roll of adhesive tape having a tape width substantially the same as a width of the film seal, a first tape path portion, a translation means for moving the plate relative to the first tape path, a collection rod within the first tape path for pressing the adhesive tape against the film seal as the plate is moved past the collection rod, a take-up spindle disposed within a second tape path portion substantially perpendicular to the first tape path portion for supporting a take-up reel and a driver to rotate the take-up spindle, the take-up reel comprising: a cylinder releasably supported on the take-up spindle for receiving a leading end of the adhesive tape and rotating to collect used adhesive tape and removed film seal that is adhered to the adhesive tape, the cylinder having a length substantially the same as the tape width; a first side flange and a second side flange disposed on opposite ends of the cylinder the first and second side flanges adapted center the used adhesive tape and removed film seal on the cylinder and to at least partially contain residual liquid on the used adhesive tape and removed film seal; and means for preventing slippage of the take-up reel relative to the take-up spindle and maintaining a uniform pulling force on the adhesive tape to pull the adhesive tape along the tape path during rotation of the take-up reel, wherein the pulling force produces a lifting motion at the collection rod to peel the film seal away from the plate. 2. The take-up reel of claim 1, wherein the means for preventing slippage of the take-up reel and maintaining uniform pulling force comprises a notch for mating with a tab, ridge or spring extending from the take-up spindle. 3. The take-up reel of claim 2, wherein the notch is disposed within one of the side flanges. 4. The take-up reel of claim 1, wherein the take-up reel is discarded with the used adhesive tape and removed film seals. 5. The take-up reel of claim 1, wherein rotation of the take-up reel is coordinated with the translation means. 6. The take-up reel of claim 1, wherein the take-up spindle and take-up reel are positioned to prevent residual liquid from dripping onto the first tape path portion. 7. The take-up reel of claim 1, wherein rotational speed of the take-up reel is adjusted to compensate for increased combined diameter of the cylinder with the collected used adhesive tape and removed film seals. 8. The take-up reel of claim 1, wherein the take-up spindle and take-up reel are positioned to direct the second tape path portion at an angle of 88.degree.-89.degree. relative to the first tape path portion. 9. A take-up reel in an apparatus for removal of a film seal covering substantially a full width of a multi-well plate containing a plurality of liquid samples, wherein the apparatus comprises a source roll of adhesive tape having a tape width substantially the same as a width of the film seal disposed on a source spindle, a first tape path portion, a translation means for moving the plate relative to the first tape path portion, a collection rod within the first tape path for applying pressure to the adhesive tape and the film seal as the plate is moved past the collection rod, a take-up spindle disposed within a second tape path portion substantially perpendicular to the first tape path portion for supporting the take-up reel and a driver to rotate the take-up spindle, the take-up reel comprising: a cylinder having a length substantially the same as the tape width and a coaxial flange disposed at each end, the cylinder having means for releasable mounting on the take-up spindle, wherein the cylinder receives a leading end of the adhesive tape and rotates to collect used adhesive tape and removed film seal that is adhered to the adhesive tape, wherein the coaxial flanges are adapted to center the used adhesive tape and removed film seal on the cylinder and to at least partially contain residual liquid on the used adhesive tape and removed film seal; and means for preventing slippage of the take-up reel relative to the take-up spindle and maintaining a uniform pulling force on the adhesive tape to pull the adhesive tape along the tape path during rotation of the take-up reel, wherein the pulling force produces a lifting motion at the collection rod to peel the film seal away from the plate. 10. The take-up reel of claim 9, wherein the means for preventing slippage and maintaining uniform pulling force comprises a notch for mating with a tab, ridge or spring extending from the take-up spindle. 11. The take-up reel of claim 10, wherein the notch is disposed within one of the coaxial flanges. 12. The take-up reel of claim 9, wherein the take-up reel is discarded with the used adhesive tape and removed film seals. 13. The take-up reel of claim 9, wherein rotation of the take-up reel is coordinated with the translation means. 14. The take-up reel of claim 9, wherein the take-up spindle and take-up reel are positioned to direct the second tape path portion at an angle of 88.degree.-89.degree. relative to the first tape path portion. 