An acetabular system includes an acetabular guide having a first surface and a second surface opposite to the first surface, the first surface made to conform to an acetabular rim surface around an acetabulum of a patient in accordance with a three-dimensional image of the acetabulum of the patient. The acetabular guide includes an aperture having an inner surface oriented at selected anteversion and abduction angles relative to the first surface for guiding an acetabular implant into the acetabulum at the selected anteversion and abduction angles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An acetabular system comprising: an acetabular guide including a first surface and a second surface opposite to the first surface, the first surface preoperatively configured as a mirror surface of an acetabular rim surface around an acetabulum of a patient from a three-dimensional image of the acetabulum of the specific patient, the acetabular guide including an aperture having an inner surface oriented at preoperatively determined and patient-specific anteversion and abduction angles relative to the first surface for guiding an acetabular implant into the acetabulum at the anteversion and abduction angles. 2. The acetabular system of claim 1, further comprising an acetabular inserter, the acetabular inserter including a guide-engaging portion, the guide-engaging portion including an outer surface preoperatively configured to mate with the inner surface of the acetabular guide at the patient-specific anteversion and abduction angles. 3. The acetabular system of claim 2, wherein the acetabular inserter includes a handle with a proximal impaction surface. 4. The acetabular system of claim 2, wherein the guide-engaging portion includes a surface having a planar portion indicative of an impaction depth of an acetabular implant. 5. The acetabular system of claim 2, wherein the acetabular inserter includes a distal portion couplable to an acetabular implant. 6. The acetabular system of claim 2, wherein the acetabular inserter includes a bushing couplable to an intermediate member, the intermediate member engageable with the acetabular implant. 7. The acetabular system of claim 2, wherein the acetabular guide includes a plurality of peripheral openings for temporary fasteners. 8. The acetabular system of claim 2, wherein the inner surface of the acetabular guide and the outer surface of the acetabular inserter are cylindrical. 9. An acetabular system comprising: an annular acetabular guide including a first surface and a second surface opposite to the first surface, the first surface being patient-specific and preoperatively configured as a mirror surface of an acetabular rim surface around an acetabulum of a patient from a three-dimensional image of the acetabulum of the patient, the acetabular guide including a cylindrical inner surface oriented at preoperatively determined and patient-specific anteversion and abduction angles relative to the first surface; and an acetabular inserter including a guide-engaging portion, the guide-engaging portion including a cylindrical outer surface preoperatively configured to mate with the cylindrical inner surface of the acetabular guide at the patient-specific anteversion and abduction angles. 10. The acetabular system of claim 9, wherein the acetabular inserter includes a handle with a proximal impaction surface. 11. The acetabular system of claim 9, wherein the acetabular inserter includes a distal ball-bearing bushing. 12. The acetabular system of claim 11, further comprising an intermediate member having a receptacle engageable with the bushing. 13. The acetabular system of claim 12, wherein the intermediate member includes a plurality of fingers couplable to a corresponding plurality of slots of an acetabular cup. 14. The acetabular system of claim 9, wherein the guide-engaging portion includes a surface with a flat portion indicative of an impaction depth of an acetabular cup. 15. The acetabular system of claim 14, wherein the acetabular guide includes a plurality of peripheral openings receiving temporary fixators. 16. The acetabular system of claim 14, in combination with an acetabular cup inserted by the acetabular inserter through the acetabular guide. 17. The acetabular system of claim 14, wherein the cylindrical outer surface of the acetabular inserter includes indicia of impaction depth of an acetabular cup. 18. An acetabular system comprising: a patient-specific annular acetabular guide including a first surface, a second surface opposite to the first surface and an opening between the first and second surfaces, wherein the first surface is patient-specific and preoperatively configured as a mirror surface of an acetabular rim surface around an acetabulum of a patient from a three-dimensional image of the acetabulum of the patient, and wherein the opening of the acetabular guide has a cylindrical inner surface oriented at preoperatively determined patient-specific anteversion and abduction angles relative to the first surface; an acetabular implant; and an acetabular inserter engageable with the acetabular implant and including a portion with a cylindrical outer surface preoperatively configured to mate with the cylindrical inner surface of the acetabular guide for guiding the acetabular implant into the acetabulum of the patient along the patient-specific anteversion and abduction angles. 