Reconfigurable virtual backplane systems and methods are provided. One virtual backplane system includes a bus, and first and second line cards coupled to the bus. Each line card includes a processor including a memory storing an array of configuration tables. Each configuration table stores a listing of processes to be transmitted to or received from the communication bus, wherein a first configuration table is selected from the first line card upon the occurrence of a first event and a second configuration table is selected from the second line card upon the occurrence of a second event. One method includes connecting first and second buses in first and second systems, respectively, to form a bus for a new system. The method further includes detecting the connection of the first and second buses, and reconfiguring the first and second systems to operate as the new system in response to detecting the connection.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A reconfigurable virtual backplane system, comprising: a communication bus; a first line card coupled to the communication bus, the first line card including a first processor comprising a first system memory, the first system memory storing a first array of configuration tables, each of the first configuration tables storing a listing of processes to be transmitted to or received from the communication bus, wherein a first configuration table is selected from the first array of configuration tables upon an occurrence of a first predefined event; and a second line card coupled to the communication bus, the second line card including a second processor comprising a second system memory, the second system memory storing a second array of configuration tables, each of the second configuration tables storing a listing of processes to be transmitted to or received from the communication bus, wherein a second configuration table is selected from the second array of configuration tables upon an occurrence of a second predefined event. 2. The reconfigurable virtual backplane system of claim 1, wherein the first predefined event or the second predefined event is a passage of an amount of time. 3. The reconfigurable virtual backplane system of claim 1, wherein the first predefined event or the second predefined event is a change in the number of line cards. 4. The reconfigurable virtual backplane system of claim 1, wherein the first predefined event or the second predefined event is a change in a software function. 5. The reconfigurable virtual backplane system of claim 1, wherein additional tables can be added to the first and second array of tables, wherein each additional table is associated with a new predefined event. 6. The reconfigurable virtual backplane system of claim 1, wherein the communication bus is, at least partially, a wireless communication bus. 7. The reconfigurable virtual backplane system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the line cards is in a first network comprising a first reconfigurable, virtual backplane and at least one of the line cards is in a second network comprising a second reconfigurable, virtual backplane, the first network and second network combinable to form a third network comprising a third reconfigurable, virtual backplane. 8. A line card configured to be coupled to a communication bus in a modular unit, comprising: a processor comprising a system memory, the system memory storing a plurality of configuration tables, each configuration table comprising a listing of processes to be transmitted to or received from the communication bus, wherein a first configuration table is selected from the plurality of configuration tables upon an occurrence of a predefined event. 9. The line card of claim 8, wherein the system memory is configurable to add additional configuration tables or subtract configuration tables. 10. The line card of claim 8, further comprising an input/output interface coupling the line card to the communication bus. 11. The line card of claim 10, wherein the communication bus is a bus internal to the modular unit. 12. The line card of claim 10, wherein the communication bus is configured to connect the modular unit to another modular unit. 13. A method for forming a new system comprised of a first system including a first communication bus and a second system including a second communication bus, comprising the steps of: connecting the first communication bus and the second communication bus to form a third communication bus for the new system comprising one or more bridge connectors further comprising a system memory, the system memory storing an array of configuration tables, each of the first configuration tables storing a listing of processes to be transmitted to or received from the communication bus; detecting the connection of the first communication bus and the second communication bus; reconfiguring the first system and the second system to operate as the new system in response to detecting the connection. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the steps of: disconnecting the first communication bus and the second communication bus; detecting disconnection of the first communication bus and the second communication bus; reconfiguring the first system to operate as the first system in response to the disconnection; and reconfiguring the second system to operate as the second system in response to the disconnection. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the first system is a first spacecraft and the second system is a second spacecraft. 