Systems and methods are provided for controlling one or more servos coupled to a model vehicle. An input signal having a series of input pulses encoded at an input pulse repetition frequency is received at a receiver coupled to a model vehicle having one or more servos. The input signal is decoded at the receiver. A servo control pulse is generated using at least one of the input pulses at the receiver. The servo control pulse is outputted to at least one of the servos at an output pulse repetition frequency that is different from the input pulse repetition frequency.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media having computer-useable instructions embodied thereon to perform a method for controlling one or more servos coupled to a model vehicle said method comprising: receiving, at a receiver coupled to a model vehicle having one or more servos, an input signal having a series of input pulses encoded at an average frame frequency; decoding the input signal at the receiver; generating a servo control pulse at the receiver using at least one of the input pulses; and outputting the servo control pulse to at least one of the servos at a first pulse repetition frequency that is different from the average frame frequency. 2. The computer-readable media of claim 1, said method further comprising: generating a second servo control pulse at the receiver using at least one of the input pulses; and outputting the second servo control pulse to at least one of the servos at the first pulse repetition frequency. 3. The computer-readable media of claim 1, said method further comprising caching the decoded input pulses at the receiver. 4. The computer-readable media of claim 2, said method further comprising: receiving, at the receiver, a second pulse repetition frequency from a computing device; and outputting the second servo control pulse to the at least one of the servos at the second pulse repetition frequency. 5. The computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the servos govern actuation of control elements comprising one or more of a wheel, a propeller, a flap, an elevator, a landing gear, a robotic arm, a rudder, an aileron, a steering gear, a spoiler, a throttle, a rotor, and a sail. 6. The computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the first pulse repetition frequency is programmed from a computing device communicatively connected to the receiver. 7. The computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the first pulse repetition frequency is adjusted from one or more interface elements on the receiver. 8. The computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein at least one limitation is placed on the first repetition frequency, said limitation drawn from the set consisting of a first preset value that limits the maximum and a second preset value that limits the minimum. 9. The computer readable media of claim 1, wherein said outputting is controlled using at least one programmable counter. 10. A receiver for generating servo control pulses for a model vehicle having one or more servos at a programmable output pulse repetition frequency that is different from an input average frame frequency, the receiver comprising: a communication module configured to receive an input signal having a series of input pulses encoded at an average frame repetition frequency; and a processing module configured to output a servo control pulse generated using at least one of the input pulses to at least one of the servos at an output pulse repetition frequency that is different from the average frame repetition frequency. 11. The receiver of claim 10, wherein the processing module is further configured to output a second servo control pulse generated using at least one of the input pulses to at least one of the servos at the output pulse repetition frequency. 12. The receiver of claim 10, wherein the processing module is further configured to receive an adjustment value for the output pulse repetition frequency from a computing device and to output the servo control pulse to the at least one of the servos at a new output pulse repetition frequency generated using the adjustment value. 13. The receiver of claim 10, wherein the processing module is further configured to receive a new output pulse repetition frequency from a computing device and to output the servo control pulse to the at least one of the servos at the new output pulse repetition frequency. 14. The receiver of claim 10, further comprising an interface module having one or more interface elements configured to receive an adjustment value for the output pulse repetition frequency through the interface elements. 15. A system for controlling a model vehicle having one or more servos at a programmable output pulse repetition frequency that is different from an input average frame frequency, the system comprising: a model vehicle having one or more servos coupled thereto; a transmitter configured to transmit a signal encoded with a series of control input pulses at an input average frame frequency; and a receiver mounted on the model vehicle and configured to receive the signal from the transmitter and to output a servo control pulse as a function of at least one of the control input pulses to at least one of the servos at an output pulse repetition frequency that is different from the input average frame frequency. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising a computing device communicatively connected to the receiver and configured for programming the receiver. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein programming the receiver comprises adjusting the output pulse repetition frequency. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the receiver is further configured to receive a new output pulse repetition frequency from a computing device and to output the servo control pulse to the at least one of the servos at the new output pulse repetition frequency. 19. The system of claim 15, wherein the receiver is further configured to receive an adjustment value for the output pulse repetition frequency from a computing device, to adjust the output pulse repetition frequency using the adjustment value, and to output the servo control pulse to the at least one of the servos at the adjusted output pulse repetition frequency. 20. The system of claim 15, wherein the receiver is further configured to cache the control input pulses. 