A device suited for inspecting selected positions of a nuclear power plant. The invention comprises a boom for extending to a position in a nuclear power station to be inspected, and a video camera affixed to the boom for permitting the visual inspection of the position to be inspected. In preferred embodiments, the video camera is affixed to a pan and tilt mechanism which may be adjusted by a remote joystick or by a control box situated on the boom. The video camera includes an auto-focus feature.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A nuclear power plant inspection device comprising: telescoping boom means for extending said device to a difficult to reach position to be inspected within a nuclear power plant; and video camera means affixed to an end of said boom means for permitting the visual inspection of said difficult to reach position to be inspected within said nuclear power plant, said video camera means being further affixed to pan and tilt means attached to said end of said boom means. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said video camera means is a charge-coupled device. 3. The device of claim 1 wherein said boom means comprises a plurality of telescoping members. 4. The device of claim 1 further comprising means for supporting said device in a vertical position. 5. The device of claim 1 further comprising a video receiver attached to the boom means for receiving video images of the inspected position. 6. A nuclear power plant inspection device comprising: hand-held telescoping boom means for extending to a difficult to reach position in a nuclear power plant to be inspected; and CCD means affixed to an end of said boom means for permitting the visual inspection of said position in said nuclear power plant to be to be inspected. 7. The device of claim 6 wherein said video camera is affixed to a pan and tilt mechanism attached to the end of said boom means. 8. The device of claim 6 wherein said video camera is a charge-coupled device. 9. The device of claim 7 wherein said pan and tilt means is controlled by a control box affixed to said boom means. 10. The device of claim 9 further comprising a video receiver attached to the boom means for viewing the inspected position by an operator of the inspection device. 11. A method for inspecting difficult to reach portions of a nuclear power station comprising: extending a telescoping hand-held boom to a difficult to reach position to be inspected within a nuclear power station, said boom having a CCD camera attached to an end thereof for permitting the visual inspection of said difficult to reach position to be inspected. 