This application discloses systems for use in the accurate positioning of robot arms and and similar automation. It is adjunct or alternative to present methods utilizing digital coordinates transmitted from encoders based in the joints of the manipulator arms to provide control signals for motor actuators positioning said arms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling robots, and other machines to cause a movable part to travel a predetermined path or to arrive at a location in space, comprising the steps of: optically projecting a pattern into space in a work area of the robot, providing a detector on the movable portion of the robot, detecting at least a portion of the pattern when the movable portion is in the work area, determining a position of the movable part of the robot relative to the detected portion of the pattern, and controlling the movement of the movable part of the robot based on the determined position. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said pattern is a grid of parallel lines. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein two patterns are projected which pattern projections occur from two directions. 4. A method according to claim 1 in which the pattern is a grille composed of unidirectional parallel lines. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said pattern is composed of radial lines emanating from a center. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein said pattern is composed of concentric rings. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein said pattern is a path for said robot to follow. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein said detector is a photo detector array and more than one line of said pattern is detected at any one time. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein the pattern includes lines which are absolutely encoded using fiducial lines. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein a single detector is utilized. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein the controlling step includes the controlling of encoders of the robot to move the movable part between detected portions of the pattern. 12. A method according to claim 1 wherein additional angular coordinates are obtained by detecting changes in spacing of lines of said pattern. 13. A method according to claim 3 wherein the two patterns are sequentially projected. 14. A method according to claim 1 and further including the sensing of the reflection of the projected pattern from objects by an image scanning device. 15. A method according to claim 1 wherein said pattern spacing is variable. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein said pattern is a diffraction pattern of an aperture and said aperture spacing is varied. 17. A method for positioning robots and other machines comprising the steps of: providing at least one optical beam position detector on a moving portion of said robot, projecting a laser or other collimated beam into the work area of said robot with a beam projection unit external to said robot, sensing said beam with said detector and, determining from said detector the correct position of said robot. 18. A method according to claim 17 including the further step of directing said beam to intersect a given co-ordinate in space and utilizing the output of said detector to cause the controller of said robot to correctly position the robot at said co-ordinates. 19. A method according to claim 17 including the further step of feeding back the signals from said detector to cause said beam to be directed so as to stay at a given point on said detector, and from said beam direction determining the location of said robot in space. 20. A method according to claim 17 wherein two beam directors and detectors are utilized, orthogonally positioned so as to provide 3 dimensional information. 21. A method for controlling robots and other machines comprising the steps of: locating at least one source of light on a moving portion of said robot, detecting the image of said source with an image detector, determining the position of said image and from said image position the location of said source in space and, feeding back the position of said source on said robot to the control computer of said robot in order to control said robot. 22. A method according to claim 21 wherein said detector is a matrix photo detector array. 23. A method according to claim 21 wherein said detector is a linear photodetector array and said image is mechanically swept past said array. 24. A method according to claim 21 wherein a light source composed of multiple zones is employed and the center or other characteristic of said zones detected. 25. A method according to claim 22 wherein said light source is provided with light conveyed from a remote located source of light via fiber optical means. 