Manufacturing facility process optimization includes monitoring communication signals within a facility device network, analyzing work station specific patterns in the communication signals, developing operational dependencies for work stations based upon the work station specific patterns, and predictively evaluating impacts to the work stations of the proposed configuration of the manufacturing facility process based upon the operational dependencies.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Method for optimizing a manufacturing facility process comprising a facility device network communicably connected to a plurality of work stations, said method comprising: monitoring communication signals transmitted through said facility device network connecting the plurality of work stations; analyzing work station specific patterns in said communication signals for signal pattern relationships; developing operational dependencies detailing interdependent relationships between said work stations based upon said work station specific patterns; and predictively evaluating impacts to said work stations of a proposed configuration of said manufacturing facility process based upon said operational dependencies. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said monitoring communication signals includes connecting an integration device to said facility device network, said integration device configured for interpreting said communication signals into a data stream and outputting said data stream in a format readily accessible through computing devices. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein outputting said data stream in a format readily accessible through computing devices includes manipulation of said communication signals into configurable work station specific terms including at least one of work station cycle times, time spans between different signal events in a work station specific cycle, and correlation between a signal event in a work station specific cycle and a signal event in different work station specific cycle. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein outputting said data stream in a format readily accessible through computing devices includes geometric relationships between articulable mechanisms within a plurality of said work stations. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising replacing one of said plurality of work stations with an emulation module configured to simulate work station specific outputs programmed based upon said proposed configuration. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising utilizing a log file module communicably connected to said facility device network containing historical operational data from one of said plurality of work stations to enable simulation of manufacturing facility process at speeds different from a normal operational speed. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein replacing one of said plurality of work stations with said emulation module further comprises utilizing a virtual environment network simulating non-network environmental communications between said work stations. 8. The method of claim 5, further comprising utilizing an emulated facility device network communicably connected to said emulation module, programmed to simulate signal communications normally transmitted through said facility device network, and operating in parallel to said facility device network. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said replacing one of said plurality of work stations with said emulation module further comprises utilizing a virtual environment network simulating non-network environmental communications between said work stations. 10. The method of claim 5, further comprising utilizing a second facility device network communicably connected to said emulation module, configured to simulate signal communications normally transmitted through said facility device network, and operating in parallel to said facility device network. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein replacing one of said plurality of work stations with said emulation module further comprises utilizing a virtual environment network simulating non-network environmental communications between said work stations. 12. Method for validating a proposed change to a manufacturing facility process comprising a facility device network communicably connected to a plurality of work stations, said method comprising: identifying a subset of said plurality of work stations potentially impacted by said proposed change to said manufacturing facility process; replacing a work station within said subset with an emulation module comprising processing capable of simulating work station specific outputs programmed based upon said proposed change; monitoring communication signals transmitted through said facility device network connecting the plurality of work stations; analyzing work station specific patterns in said communication signals for signal pattern relationships; developing operational dependencies detailing interdependent relationships between each of said plurality of work stations based upon said work station specific patterns; and predictively evaluating impacts to said subset of said proposed change to said manufacturing facility process based upon said operational dependencies. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said predictively evaluating impacts to said subset of said proposed change to said manufacturing facility process comprises outputting a deterministic projected performance of said plurality of work stations. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said predictively evaluating impacts to said subset of said proposed change to said manufacturing facility process comprises outputting a probabilistic projected performance of said plurality of work stations. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said outputting said probabilistic projected performance of said plurality of work stations includes identifying likely simulated sources of variation in said probabilistic projected performance of said plurality of work stations. 16. System for optimizing a manufacturing facility process comprising a plurality of work stations through a new process launch, said manufacturing facility process comprising a facility device network communicably connected to an emulation module and the plurality of work stations, said system comprising: said emulation module programmed to simulate a work station output comprising simulated communications signals over said facility device network in accordance with said new process launch; a computerized processor programmed with a manufacturing engineering tool configured for analyzing data from said manufacturing facility process and outputting a predictive analysis of said new process launch, said data comprising said simulated communication signals and said predictive analysis comprising analyzing work station specific patterns in said signals for signal pattern relationships and developing operational dependencies detailing interdependent relationships between said work stations based upon said work station specific patterns; and an integration device communicably connected to said facility device network connecting the plurality of work stations and said computerized processor and translating signal communications from said facility device network into a data stream readable by said computerized processor. 17. The system of claim 16, further comprising a log file device communicably connected to said facility device network and outputting historical operational data from one of the plurality of work stations. 18. The system of claim 16, further comprising a virtual environment network communicably connected to said emulation module and simulating non-network environmental communication between the plurality of work stations. 