A transformer system for resistance welding intended for installation on robotic devices comprises an auto transformer having a tap selection switch connected through electrical conductors to an isolation welding transformer located at the end of the robotic arm. The auto transformer is uniquely selected for the maximum efficiency thereof and the optimum reduction in the size of the conductors between the transformers. The isolation welding transformer is also optimally sized due to the reduction permissable by the previous interposition of the auto transformer in the welding system. Moreover, the isolation welding transformer comprises primary and secondary coils formed from tubular members each of which is cooled by a fluid coolant. Utilization of refrigerated coolant permits further reduction in size and mass, and increases electrical efficiency because of the unique design of the isolation welding transformer in which both primary and secondary windings are cooled by such fluid coolant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A welding system comprising: a pair of welding electrodes, an isolation transformer having a primary coil and a secondary coil, means for mounting said isolation transformer closely adjacent said electrodes, an auto transformer having a coil and a pair of taps, means for electrically connecting said auto transformer coil taps to said isolation transformer primary coil, a power source electrically connected to said auto transformer coil, means for mounting said auto transformer remote from said isolation transformer, first means for fluidly cooling said isolation transformer primary coil, second means for fluidly cooling said isolation transformer secondary coil, wherein said primary and secondary coils each comprise a tubular conductor and wherein said first and second cooling means comprises means for passing a fluid coolant through said isolation transformer primary and secondary coils, respectively. 2. The invention as defined in claim 1 comprising switching means for selectively tapping the coil of said auto transformer to vary the output voltage of said auto transformer. 3. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said first means comprises electrical conductors having a power capacity substantially less than the power rating required to conduct electricity directly from the power source to a single transformer. 4. The invention as defined in claim 3 wherein said conductors comprise wires having a diameter 1/4 to 1/5 of the wire size required to conduct electricity directly from the power source to the single welding transformer. 5. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said primary and secondary windings comprises a plurality of loops, each loop of one winding being interposed between loops of the other winding in a stacked, consecutively alternating arrangement. 6. The invention as defined in claim 5 wherein each loop comprises at least one turn of said tubular conductor. 7. The invention as defined in claim 6 wherein the number of turns in each loop of said primary and the number of turns in each loop of said secondary winding correspond to the desired turns ratio of said isolation transformer. 8. The invention as defined in claim 5 wherein said each loop is coated with an insulating material. 9. The invention as defined in claim 8 wherein an insulating layer is disposed intermediate each coated loop of said primary winding and each coated loop of said secondary winding. 10. The invention as defined in claim 1 wherein said welding system comprises a robotic arm having a free end, said electrodes being attached to said free end of said robotic arm and wherein said isolation transformer mounting means comprises means for mountng said isolation transformer on said free end of robotic arm adjacent said electrodes. 11. The invention as defined in claim 10 wherein said auto transformer is positioned remotely from said robotic arm. 