This invention provides compositions and methods for HCV typing, e.g., genotyping and/or subtyping. The compositions and methods of the invention can be used to assign an HCV isolate to one of at least five HCV types (for example, selected from types 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6), or to one of at least five subtypes (for example, subtypes 1a/b/c, 2a/c, 2b, 3a, 4a, 5a or 6a). These methods integrate the hybridization data from a plurality of HCV typing probes in a multidimensional analysis to make an HCV type assignment for an HCV in an experimental sample. The invention also provides related compositions, including, for example, the HCV typing probes and HCV typing diagnostic kits.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A closed-tube method for determining the type of a hepatitis C virus (HCV) in a sample, the method comprising: a) amplifying a portion of the HCV genome from the sample, thereby producing at least one amplicon; b) hybridizing the amplicon with at least a first probe and a second probe in a single hybridization reaction to form at least two target hybridization complexes, wherein: i) each probe has a nucleotide sequence that targets the probe to the same target region in the HCV genome and contains a minimum of six nucleotide overlap with the other probe, and is complementary or partially complementary to nucleotide sequences within the HCV genome; ii) the regions of hybridization complex complementarity or partial complementarity show sequence heterogeneity among at least two HCV types; iii) hybridization complexes comprising the first probe have a distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) that differentiates more than two HCV types but is indistinguishable for at least two other HCV types, wherein said range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) is caused by sequence variations within a particular HCV type; iv) hybridization complexes comprising the second probe have a distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) that differentiates more than two HCV types but is indistinguishable for at least two other HCV types, wherein the more than two virus types differentiated by the first probe are different than the more than two HCV types differentiated by the second probe, wherein said range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) is caused by sequence variations within a particular HCV type; and v) each probe comprises a different FRET donor moiety having a different excitation and emission spectra; c) simultaneously measuring the distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) of the target hybridization complexes; and, d) correlating the measured distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) of the target hybridization complexes with one of at least five HCV types, wherein an assignment of an HCV type is made based on the distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) of the hybridization complexes comprising the first probe and second probe in a multidimensional analysis. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the HCV type is selected from genotypes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the HCV type is selected from any subtype of genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the HCV type is subtype 1a, 1b, 1c, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3a, 3b, 4a, 5a or 6a. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample comprises human blood or human serum. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of amplifying is by reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the PCR uses a primer pair comprising the nucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NOS: 58 and 59. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the PCR uses primers that generate a PCR amplicon from a plurality of HCV types. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein: a) the hybridizing step further comprises at least one additional probe in addition to the first and second probes, to form a plurality of at least three target hybridization complexes; b) the plurality of hybridization complexes have a distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m), wherein said range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) is caused by sequence variations within a particular HCV type; and, c) the assignment of an HCV type in the correlating step is made based on the distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) of the plurality of at least three hybridization complexes. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the nucleotide sequences of the at least first and second probes are complementary or partially complementary to nucleotide sequences within the 5'-UTR or the NS5 open reading frame of an HCV genome. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second probes comprise nucleotide sequences selected from SEQ ID NOS: 26 and 54. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one probe comprises a FRET quencher moiety. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the hybridizing step comprises admixing with a soluble FRET quencher. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the soluble FRET quencher is a thiazine dye. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the measuring step comprises detecting emitted light at more than one wavelength. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one probe is a nucleotide oligomer comprising naturally occurring nucleotides, modified nucleotides, nucleotide analogs, one or more unnatural bases, unnatural internucleotide linkages, unnatural nucleotide backbones, or any combination thereof. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the correlating step comprises comparing the distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) of the target hybridization complexes to the distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) of hybridization complexes comprising each probe and a plurality of HCV types. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further is for determining the viral load of the HCV in the sample, wherein the amplifying step further comprises monitoring a rate of accumulation of the amplicon using reagents for real-time detection of amplicon accumulation and correlating the rate of amplicon accumulation with the viral load. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the reagents for real-time detection of amplicon accumulation comprise an amplicon quantitation probe. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the amplicon quantitation probe comprises a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 60. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the amplicon quantitation probe comprises a FRET donor moiety and a FRET quencher moiety wherein the amplicon quantitation probe forms a quantitation hybridization complex with the amplicon under conditions wherein base-pairing occurs. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the amplifying step comprises detecting the donor moiety during the amplification step. 23. A closed-tube method for determining the type of a hepatitis C virus (HCV) in a sample, the method comprising: a) hybridizing a nucleic acid derived from the HCV genome with at least a first probe and a second probe in a single hybridization reaction to form at least two target hybridization complexes, wherein: i) each probe has a nucleotide sequence that targets the probe to the same target region in an HCV genome and contains a minimum of six nucleotide overlap with the other probe, and is complementary or partially complementary to nucleotide sequences within the HCV genome; ii) the regions of hybridization complex complementarity or partial complementarity show sequence heterogeneity among at least two HCV types; iii) hybridization complexes comprising the first probe have a distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) that differentiates more than two HCV types but is indistinguishable for at least two other HCV types, wherein said range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) is caused by sequence variations within a particular HCV type; iv) hybridization complexes comprising the second probe have a distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) that differentiates more than two HCV types but is indistinguishable for at least two other HCV types, wherein the more than two virus types differentiated by the first probe are different than the more than two HCV types differentiated by the second probe, wherein said range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) is caused by sequence variations within a particular HCV type; and v) each probe comprises a different FRET donor moiety having a different excitation and emission spectra; b) simultaneously measuring the distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) of the target hybridization complexes; and, c) correlating the measured distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) of the target hybridization complexes with one of at least five HCV types, wherein an assignment of an HCV type is made based on the distinguishing range of melting temperature (T.sub.m) of the hybridization complexes comprising the at least the first probe and second probe in a multidimensional analysis. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the first and second probes comprise nucleotide sequences selected from SEQ ID NOS: 26 and 54. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second probes comprise nucleotide sequences independently selected from the nucleotide sequences provided in SEQ ID NOS: 9-57. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the first and second probes comprise nucleotide sequences selected from SEQ ID NOS: 26 and 54, SED ID NOS: 10 and 53, and SEQ ID NOS: 57 and 52. 