A system for applying a uniform band of liquid primer material to the marginal edge surfaces of glazing units upon which a plastic frame or gasket member is to be molded in place. A family of interchangeable applicator tips is provided for use with a dispensing device adapted to provide an on-demand supply of primer material to the tip in use. The different applicator tips of the family have configurations particularly adapted to applying bands of primer material along selected peripheral margins of a sheet member. Each is of a composite construction including a relatively rigid base member covered by a soft absorbent body for contacting and transferring to the sheet surface the layer of primer material. The tips are readily attachable to and removable from the primer material dispensing device. The dispensing device may comprise one or more applicator guns incorporated in a modular work station, including a closed storage and supply container for the primer material and a solvent flush system for cleaning hoses and flow guns of the reactive priming resins. The flow guns may be mounted upon an oscillating carriage whereby, in one position of the carriage, spent applicator tips are removed and replaced by new tips by a suitably programmed robot, and in another position the marginal edges of sheet members are moved along and through the applicator tips by a suitably programmed robot arm for application of a band of the primer material.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material to at least one peripheral marginal surface of a sheet of material comprising, dispensing means for containing and selectively dispensing a liquid material, a coupler member on said dispensing means, and an applicator tip including a coupling extension adapted for releasably mating with said coupler member and placing said applicator tip in fluid communication with said dispensing means, said applicator tip being adapted to receive said liquid material from said dispensing means and deposit a band of said liquid material in response to movement of said applicator tip relative to and in wiping contact with a peripheral marginal surface of a sheet of material, said applicator tip comprising a hollow, open-sided pad block member affixed to said coupling extension, the interior of said pad block member being in fluid communication with said coupling extension, and a transfer pad affixed within the hollow interior of said pad block member for receiving said liquid material from said dispensing means, said transfer pad comprising a porous, wicking material adapted for said wiping contact with said sheet surface for receiving said liquid material and depositing said band of material on said sheet surface, and including a guide block positioned within said pad block member for slidingly engaging an edge of said sheet as the applicator tip and sheet are moved relative to one another. 2. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 1, including a plurality of said applicator tips adapted to interchangeably mate with said coupler member, each of said applicator tips being of a structure adapted to apply a said band distinct from a said band applied by another of said applicator tips. 3. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material claimed in claim 1, including lock means releasably securing said coupling extension and said coupler member in a selected axial position relative to one another, and sealing means between said coupling extension and said coupler member. 4. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in clam 3, wherein said lock means comprises a ring member for seating in opposed circumferential recesses in said coupling extension and said coupler member whereby said applicator tip is adapted for snap fitting on said dispensing means. 5. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 3, wherein said sealing means comprises an O-ring seated in a circumferential recess in one of said coupling extension and coupler member and bearing circumferentially against the other one thereof. 6. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in clam 1, wherein said transfer pad comprises a pad member adjacent to and extending outwardly beyond said pad block member for engaging a major peripheral surface of said sheet while said guide block engages the edge thereof. 7. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 6, wherein said transfer pad comprises a spaced pair of said pad members, said guide block being disposed intermediate said pad members whereby a said band is applied to both major peripheral marginal surfaces of said sheet. 8. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 7, wherein one pad member of said spaced pair extends a greater distance beyond said pad block member than the other. 9. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 1, wherein said dispensing means includes a receptacle having an enclosed interior adapted to be selectively pressurized for discharging said liquid material to said applicator tip. 10. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 1, wherein said dispensing means comprises an applicator gun, said applicator gun being connected to a source of said liquid material maintained under pressure, and said applicator gun including a valve member actuable to discharge said liquid material to said applicator tip. 11. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 10, wherein said applicator gun includes a housing, a chamber in said housing connected to said source of liquid material under pressure, said coupler member being affixed to said housing and in fluid communication with said chamber, said valve member including an elongated needle valve member extending axially through said housing and being axially moveable between open and closed positions, said needle valve member preventing flow of said liquid material from said chamber to said coupler member in said closed position, spring means urging said needle valve member to said closed position, and piston means connected to said needle valve member selectively operable to retract said needle valve member against said spring mean whereby said liquid material is discharged from said chamber to said coupler member and applicator tip. 12. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 1, including a carriage mounted for rotary movement, said dispensing means comprising an applicator gun mounted on said carriage and connected to a source of said liquid material maintained under pressure, said applicator gun including a valve member actuable to discharge said liquid material to said applicator tip, sheet carrying means for supporting said sheet in operative position to engage said applicator tip, and means providing relative movement between said sheet and said applicator tip whereby said band is deposited on said marginal surface. 13. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material to at least one peripheral marginal surface of a sheet of material comprising, dispensing means for containing and selectively dispensing a liquid material, a coupler member on said dispensing means, and an applicator tip including a coupling extension adapted for releasably mating with said coupler member and placing said applicator tip in fluid communication with said dispensing means, said applicator tip being adapted to receive said liquid material from said dispensing means and deposit a band of said liquid material in response to movement of said applicator tip relative to and in wiping contact with a peripheral marginal surface of a sheet of material, said applicator tip comprising a hollow, open-sided block member affixed to said coupling extension, the interior of said pad block member being in fluid communication with said coupling extension, and a transfer pad affixed within the hollow interior of said pad block member for receiving said liquid material from said dispensing means, said transfer pad comprising a porous wicking material adapted for said wiping contact with said sheet surface for receiving said liquid material and depositing said band of material on said sheet surface, said transfer pad comprising a U-shaped pad member including spaced legs interconnected by a web for receiving the peripheral marginal edge of said sheet therein. 14. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 13, including a U-shaped insert within said pad block member, said U-shaped pad member being disposed within said U-shaped insert. 15. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 14, wherein said U-shaped insert comprises a spaced pair of legs disposed along interior surfaces of said pad block member, a plurality of openings extending through at least one of said legs of said insert, and an elongated slot in a wall of said pad block member in communication with said openings for delivering said liquid material from said coupling extension through said openings to said transfer pad. 16. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material to at least one peripheral marginal surface of a sheet of material comprising, dispensing means for containing and selectively dispensing a liquid material, a coupler member on said dispensing means, and an applicator tip including a coupling extension adapted for releasably mating with said coupler member and placing said applicator tip in fluid communication with said dispensing means, said applicator tip being adapted to receive said liquid material from said dispensing means and deposit a band of said liquid material in response to movement of said applicator tip relative to and in wiping contact with a peripheral marginal surface of a sheet of material, said applicator tip comprising a pad block member including said coupling extension and having a passage extending longitudinally therethrough in communication with said coupling extension, a perforate tubular insert having an open end received within said passage and a closed end projecting outwardly beyond said pad block member, and a sleeve of porous, wicking material covering said insert. 17. Apparats for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 16, wherein said passage is of tapered oval cross-section, said insert being of corresponding oval cross-section for reception in said passage and tapering inwardly from said passage to said closed end. 18. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 17, including a plurality of spaced openings disposed over said tubular insert and extending therethrough for delivering said liquid material from said coupling extension to said sleeve. 19. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 17, wherein said tubular insert is separable from said pad block member, including locking means releasably securing said tubular insert to said pad block member. 20. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material to at least one peripheral marginal surface of a sheet of material comprising, dispensing means for containing and selectively dispensing a liquid material, a coupler member on said dispensing means, and an applicator tip including a coupling extension adapted for releasably mating with said coupler member and placing said applicator tip in fluid communication with said dispensing means, said applicator tip being adapted to receive said liquid material from said dispensing means and deposit a band of said liquid material in response to movement of said applicator tip relative to and in wiping contact with a peripheral marginal surface of a sheet of material, including a carriage mounted for rotary movement, said dispensing means comprising an applicator gun mounted on said carriage and connected to a source of said liquid material maintained under pressure, said applicator gun including a valve member actuable to discharge liquid material to said applicator tip, sheet carrying means for supporting said sheet in operative position to engage said applicator tip, and means providing relative movement between said sheet and said applicator tip whereby a band of said liquid material is deposited on said marginal surface, a carousel removably carrying a plurality of said applicator tips, and an arm including grasping means programmed to detach a first said applicator tip from said applicator gun and deposit it on said carousel and to retrieve a second said applicator tip from said carousel and attach it to said applicator gun in place of said first applicator tip. 21. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 20, including a second said applicator gun on said carriage, and second ones of said arm and said carousel operatively associated with said carriage and said second applicator gun, said carriage being operable to selectively move either of the first and second applicator guns into operative relationship relative to said sheet carrying means. 22. Apparatus for applying a band of liquid material as claimed in claim 20, wherein said source of liquid material comprises a first enclosed receptacle for containing a supply of said liquid material, impeller means for stirring said liquid material in said first enclosed receptacle, an inert atmosphere supply means for maintaining an inert atmosphere over said liquid material in said first receptacle, a second enclosed receptacle in which a supply of cleaning solvent is maintained, and valve and piping means selectively connecting said first and second receptacles to said applicator gun whereby said liquid material and said solvent are selectively supplied to said applicator gun. 