An accommodating linkage device which operates in three modes to provide, upon command, either: (1) a standard, resetable, rigid linkage between two objects; (2) a flexible linkage which responds to relative motion (forces) between two objects; (3) or an arbitrary, rigid linkage between two objects. The device includes two ball joints which connect to the two objects, a pair of locking pistons, and a pair of alignment pistons. Operation of the device is in response to either control signals or to forces generated by the relative motion of the two objects, depending upon operating mode.
Claims Having described our invention what we now claim is: 1. A linkage device adapted to be secured at one end to a robot arm and to be secured at its other end to a workpiece gripper which comprises: a housing having one end and another end, an outer wall and an inner wall and a plate member joined to the inner and outer walls, said plate member intermediate the one end and the other end; link means including a first link secured to the one end of the housing for angular motion; means to lock the link in an arbitrary fixed position, said means to lock disposed within the inner wall for fluid tight sliding motion within the inner wall and along the longitudinal axis of the housing; means to align the link in a standard resettable position said means disposed between the inner and outer walls for fluid tight sliding motion between said inner and outer walls; means to create a fluid bearing surface between the link and the housing; and means to move the means to lock the link and the means to align the link. 2. The linkage device of claim 1, wherein the inner and outer walls are cylindrical walls and wherein the plate member lies in a plane which bisects the housing. 3. The linkage device of claim 2 which includes a second link secured to the other end of the housing for angular motion, means to lock the second link in an arbitrary fixed position, said means to lock disposed within the inner wall for fluid tight sliding motion within the inner wall and along the longitudinal axis of the housing; means to align the second link in a standard resettable position said means disposed between the inner and outer walls for fluid tight sliding motion between said inner and outer walls; means to create a fluid bearing surface between the second link and the housing; and means to move the means to lock the second link and the means to align the second link. 4. The linkage device of claim 3 wherein each of the means to lock the links comprises a locking piston received within the inner cylindrical wall. 5. The linkage device of claim 3 wherein each of the means to align the links comprises an alignment ring received between the inner and outer cylindrical walls. 6. The linkage of claim 3 wherein each of the means to create the fluid bearing surfaces comprises means to discharge a fluid stream between the inner surface of the socket and the outer surface of the link received within the socket. 7. The linkage device of claim 1 which includes a link secured to the other end of the housing the links adapted for angular motion one to the other. 8. The linkage device of claim 7, wherein the inner and outer walls are cylindrical walls and wherein the plate member lies in a plane which bisects the housing. 9. The linkage device of claim 8 wherein the housing is cylindrical and wherein the ends each comprise a dome-shaped socket secured to the housing and the links are received in the sockets. 10. The linkage device of claim 9 wherein the means to lock the links comprises locking pistons received within the inner cylindrical walls on each side of the plate member. 11. The linkage device of claim 9 wherein the means to align the link comprises alignment rings received between the inner and outer cylindrical walls on each side of the plate member. 12. The linkage of claim 9 wherein the means to create the fluid bearing surface comprises means to discharge a fluid stream between the inner surface of the dome-shaped sockets and the outer surface of the links received within the sockets. 13. The linkage device of claims 1 or 2 wherein said plate member is perpendicular to the inner and outer walls. 