A plasma torch is provided with a sharply converging nozzle which can prevent the lower end of the torch from making contact with a workpiece which has concavities and convexities during the cutting of the workpiece with the plasma torch. An upper portion (1a) of the nozzle (1) is provided with an outwardly directed flange (1h) so as to make close contact with a seat surface (2d) formed in the inner periphery of the lower portion of the cap (2), so as to ensure electrical conduction between the nozzle (1) and the cap (2) and to secure to a torch body (8) the nozzle (1) and components (3, 4, 5) contained in the nozzle (1). O-rings (6, 6a, 9) provide seals for the cooling water passage (7). The lower end of cylindrical portion (1a) of the nozzle (1) below the flange (1f), as well as the conical portion (1b), constitutes part of the exterior surface of the plasma torch, while the apex angle (.theta..sub.1) of the nozzle structure is made smaller so that the nozzle structure is more sharply tapered.
Claims I claim: 1. A nozzle structure for a plasma torch, comprising: an electrode having an upper portion and a lower portion; an annular nozzle having an upper portion and a lower portion, with the lower portion of said nozzle converging downwardly and inwardly, said nozzle surrounding at least the lower portion of said electrode, the lower portion of said nozzle having a lower end containing a hole formed therein for jetting a plasma arc outwardly from the plasma torch, said upper portion of said nozzle having a flange extending outwardly therefrom, said flange having a lower surface which faces downwardly; and an annular cap having an upper portion and a lower portion, said lower portion of said cap having a lower end and an upper end with an upwardly facing internal shoulder formed at the upper end of the lower portion of said cap, wherein said cap surrounds an upper part of the upper portion of said nozzle with said lower surface of said flange being in close contact with said upwardly facing internal shoulder of said cap; wherein a lower part of said upper portion of said nozzle extends downwardly beyond the lower end of said lower portion of said cap so that said lower part of said upper portion of said nozzle, along with said lower portion of said nozzle, form a portion of exterior surface of the plasma torch when the plasma torch is in operation such that the portion of exterior surface of the plasma torch formed by said lower portion of said nozzle defines an apex angle for the nozzle structure of less than about 60.degree.. 2. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 1, wherein said upper portion of said nozzle has an at least generally cylindrical configuration, and said lower portion of said nozzle has an at least generally conical configuration. 3. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 1, wherein the nozzle structure has an apex angle of less than about 50.degree.. 4. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 1, wherein said cap and said nozzle are shaped so as to form a gap between the outer periphery of the upper part of said upper portion of said nozzle and the adjacent inner peripheral of said cap, whereby a cooling fluid can be passed through said gap. 5. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 4, wherein said lower portion of said cap has an annular groove formed in the interior surface thereof below said internal shoulder, and wherein an O-ring is positioned in said annular groove in close contact with the exterior surface of said nozzle to thereby form a seal between said cap and said nozzle. 6. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 1, wherein said nozzle has an internal upwardly facing shoulder, and further comprising an annular swirler positioned between said electrode and said nozzle and supported by the internal upwardly facing shoulder of said nozzle. 7. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 6 further comprising an annular insulating sleeve positioned between the upper portion of said electrode and the upper portion of said nozzle and supported by said swirler. 8. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 1, wherein the exterior surface of ever half of the axial length of the nozzle constitutes exterior surface of the plasma torch when the plasma torch is in operation. 9. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 8, wherein the nozzle structure has an apex angle of less than about 50.degree.. 10. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 9, wherein said upper portion of said nozzle has an at least generally cylindrical configuration, and said lower portion of said nozzle has an at least generally conical configuration. 11. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 10, where said cap and said nozzle are shaped so as to form a gap-between the outer periphery of the upper part of said upper portion of said nozzle and the adjacent inner periphery of said cap, whereby a cooling fluid can be passed through said gap. 12. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 11, wherein said lower portion of said cap has an annular groove formed in the interior surface thereof below said internal shoulder, and wherein an O-ring is positioned in said annular groove in close contact with the exterior surface of said nozzle to thereby form a seal between said cap and said nozzle. 13. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 12, wherein said nozzle has an internal upwardly facing shoulder, and further comprising an annular swirler positioned between said electrode and said nozzle and supported by the internal upwardly facing shoulder of said nozzle. 14. A nozzle structure in accordance with claim 13, further comprising an annular insulating sleeve positioned between the upper portion of said electrode and the upper portion of said nozzle and supported by said swirler. 15. A plasma torch, comprising: a plasma torch body; an electrode having an upper portion and a lower portion; an annular nozzle having an upper portion and a lower portion, with the lower portion of said nozzle converging downwardly and inwardly, said nozzle surrounding at least the lower portion of said electrode, the lower portion of said nozzle having a lower end containing a hole formed therein for jetting a plasma arc outwardly from the plasma torch, said upper portion of said nozzle having a flange extending outwardly therefrom, said flange having a lower surface which faces downwardly, said nozzle having an internal upwardly facing shoulder; an annular swirler positioned between said electrode and said nozzle and supported by the internal upwardly facing shoulder of said nozzle; an annular insulating sleeve positioned between the upper portion of said electrode and the upper portion of said nozzle and supported by said swirler; and an annular cap having an upper portion and a lower portion, said lower portion of said cap having a lower end and an upper end with an upwardly facing internal shoulder formed at the upper end of the lower portion of said cap; wherein the upper end of said nozzle is positioned within the interior of said plasma torch body, wherein said cap surrounds an upper part of the upper portion of said nozzle with said lower surface of said flange being in close contact with said upwardly facing internal shoulder of said cap, wherein said upper portion of said cap is secured to said plasma torch body, wherein a lower part of said upper portion of said nozzle extends downwardly beyond the lower end of said lower portion of said cap so that said lower part of said upper portion of said nozzle, along with said lower portion of said nozzle, form a portion of exterior surface of the plasma torch when the plasma torch is in operation such that the portion of exterior surface of the plasma torch formed by said lower portion of said nozzle defines an apex angle for the plasma torch of less than about 60.degree.. 16. A plasma torch in accordance with claim 15, wherein the plasma torch has an apex angle of less about 50.degree.. 17. A plasma torch in accordance with claim 16, where said cap and said nozzle are shaped so as form a gap between the outer periphery of the upper part of said upper portion of said nozzle and the adjacent inner periphery of said cap, wherein said lower portion of said cap has an annular groove formed in the interior surface thereof below said internal shoulder, and wherein an O-ring is positioned in said annular groove in close contact with the exterior surface of said nozzle to thereby form a seal between said cap and said nozzle, whereby a cooling fluid can be passed through said gap. 18. A plasma torch in accordance with claim 17, wherein the exterior surface of at least about half of the axial length of the nozzle constitutes exterior surface of the plasma torch when the plasma torch is in operation. 