A remote manipulator for a robotic system has a plurality of intercoupled manipulator links and a principal manipulator drive unit coupled to manipulate the remote position of an end-effector supported by said links in response to a manipulator control signal. Coarse adjustment of the end effector is refined by a precision control subsystem which augments the principal manipulator to achieve a "control-in-the-small" robotic manipulator system. The augmenting precision-achieving subsystem includes a coupling mechanism, coupled with one of the links, for establishing the position of one of the links relative to another link, and a precision adjustment device, associated with the coupling mechanisms for adjusting the position of the one link relative to another link as established by the coupling mechanism, independently of the action of the principal manipulator drive unit and effectively without bearing the load supported by the one of said links. Generally, if the manipulator has N major degrees of freedom, then it will be useful to implement up to N secondary degrees of freedom to adequately establish the control-in-the-small subsystem.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An arrangement for controlling the position of an end-effector supported by a robotic load-bearing link arrangement comprising: primary link displacement actuator means, coupled with and effectively participating in the load-bearing action of said link arrangement, for effecting a coarse positioning of said end effector in accordance with a first control command supplied thereto; and secondary link displacement actuator means, coupled with but effectively not-participating in the load-bearing action of said link arrangement, for effecting a precise positioning of said end-effector in accordance with a second control command supplied thereto; whereby the degree of precision to which the position of said end-effector may be controlled is effectively independent of the load-bearing action of said link arrangement. 2. An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the degree of displacement of said end-effector capable of being carried out by the operation of said primary link-displacement actuator means is substantially greater than that capable of being carried out by the operation of said secondary link-displacement actuator means. 3. An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the rate at which said first control command is updated for controlling the operation of said primary link-displacement actuator means is less than the rate at which said second control command is updated for controlling the operation of said secondary link-displacement actuator means. 4. An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein said secondary link-displacement actuator means provides linearized control of the precise positioning of said end-effector. 5. An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein said secondary link-displacement actuator means includes means for providing an increment of displacement of said end-effector which is small compared with the increment of displacement of said end-effector which is provided by said primary link-displacement actuator means. 6. An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein said secondary link-displacement actuator means comprises means for adjusting the effective length of one of said links relative to its connection to another of said links. 7. An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein said secondary link-displacement actuator means comprises means for adjusting the rotational position of one of said links around an axis about which said one of said links may rotate relative to another of said links. 8. An arrangement according to claim 7, wherein said primary link-displacement actuator means includes a primary actuator drive unit coupled with said another of said links and having an output shaft driven thereby in response to a control command signal applied thereto, said output shaft coupling said one of said links to said another of said links for rotation about the axis of said output shaft. 9. An arrangement according to claim 8, wherein said secondary link-displacement actuator means comprises a first coupling member affixed to said output shaft and a controllable second coupling member supported by said one of said links and cooperating with said first coupling member, whereby controllable adjustment of said second coupling member precisely defines the angular position of said one link about said axis relative to said another link. 10. An arrangement according to claim 9, wherein said controllable second coupling member comprises a worm gear drive mechanism supported by said one of said links for rotation about an axis orthogonal to the longitudinal axis of said one link, and wherein said first coupling member comprises a sector gear affixed to said output shaft, the teeth of said sector gear engaging the rotational drive surface of said worm gear drove mechanism. 11. An arrangement according to claim 6, wherein said secondary link-displacement actuator means comprises a first link one end of which is coupled to said another of said links and the other end of which is provided with a rotatable eccentric coupling element adapted for rotation about a first axis, and means for coupling said one link to said eccentric coupling element whereby said one link is rotatable about a second axis offset from said first axis. 12. An arrangement according to claim 11, wherein said secondary link-displacement actuator means comprises means for rotatably coupling said one end of said first link about a third axis at the connection of said first link to said another link. 13. An arrangement according to claim 11, wherein said secondary link-displacement actuator means further comprises a first coupling member affixed to said eccentric coupling element and a controllable second coupling member supported by said one of said links and cooperating with said first coupling member, whereby controllable adjustment of said second coupling member precisely defines the angular position of said eccentric element and thereby said second axis about said first axis. 14. An arrangement according to claim 13, wherein said controllable second coupling member comprises a worm gear drive mechanism supported by said one of said links for rotation about an axis orthogonal to the longitudinal axis of said one link, and wherein said first coupling member comprises a sector gear affixed to eccentric coupling element, the teeth of said sector gear engaging the rotational drive surface of said worm gear drive mechanism. 15. An arrangement according to claim 13, wherein said first and second coupling members and said eccentric element are disposed symmetrically relative to a longitudinal axis of said one of said links. 16. A method of precisely controlling the position of an end-effector supported by a robotic load-bearing manipulator link arrangement comprising the steps of: (a) effecting a primary, coarse positioning of said end-effector through the operation of a primary link-displacement actuator which effectively participates in the bearing of the load by said link arrangement; and (b) effecting a secondary, precise positioning of said end-effector through the operation of a secondary link-displacement actuator which does not effectively participate in the bearing of the load by said link arrangement; whereby the degree of precision to which position of said end-effector may be controlled is effectively independent of the load bearing action of said link arrangement. 17. A method according to claim 16, wherein the degree of displacement of said end-effector capable of being carried out by the operation of said primary link-displacement actuator is substantially greater than that capable of being carried out by the operation of said secondary link-displacement actuator. 18. A method according to claim 16, wherein step (a) includes providing first control command signals for the operation of said primary link-displacement actuator at a first control processing rate and step (b) includes providing second control command signals for the operation of said secondary link-displacement actuator at a second control processing rate higher than that for said first control command signals. 19. A method according to claim 16, wherein step (b) includes the step of carrying out precise positioning of said end-effector through linearized control of the operation of said secondary link-displacement actuator. 20. A method according to claim 16, wherein an increment of displacement of end-effector by the operation of said secondary, non-loading bearing link-displacement actuator in accordance with step (b) is small compared to an increment of displacement of said end-effector by the operation of said primary, load-bearing link displacement actuator in accordance with step (a). 21. A method according to claim 16, wherein step (b) comprises controlling said secondary link-displacement actuator so as to adjust the effective length of one of said links relative to its connection to another of said links. 22. A method according to claim 16, wherein step (b) comprises controlling said secondary link-displacement actuator so as to adjust the rotational position of one of said links around an axis about which said one of said links may rotate relative to another of said links. 