A solution is provided that efficiently tracks user paths within a large network. Raw node visit data may be received that indicates which users visited which nodes in the network at which time. This data may then be organized into sessions. Unique pathviews may be calculated for each session of the nodes visit data as well as the frequency of occurrence of each unique path view. This information may then be used to understand how users are progressing through a network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method performed by a processor for path discovery of network usage data, the method comprising: at one or more computing devices configured to perform path discovery, receiving node visit data, wherein the node visit data indicates which users visited which nodes in a network at which times; organizing, using the one or more computing devices, the node visit data into sessions; producing, from the node visit data a list of all nodes visited; creating a node-to-integer code mapping and an integer-to-node code mapping using the list of all nodes visited and a hierarchy definition, using the one or more computing devices; converting nodes in the organized node visit data into corresponding integers using the node-to-integer code mapping; removing duplicate, successive node visits within the same session from the converted, organized node visit data, using the one or more computing devices; calculating, using the one or more computing devices, all unique pathviews for each session of the converted, organized node visit data, wherein no loop occurs in any unique pathview, wherein a pathview represents a sequence of two or more nodes in the order in which a user visited the two or more nodes in a single session, and a pathview is unique if it is not identical to, or a subset of, another pathview of the single session; calculating a frequency of occurrence of each unique pathview; receiving a query from a path access application program interface; and sending data about the unique pathviews and the frequencies of occurrence responsive to the query to the path access program interface, using the one or more computing devices, wherein the path access application program interface is capable of decoding the unique pathviews using the integer-to-node mapping. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said organizing includes comparing timestamps of node visits by the same user to determine if the node visits occurred during the same session. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein two node visits by the same user are grouped into the same session if the difference in time between the timestamps is less than a predetermined session threshold. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the predetermined session threshold is 30 minutes. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said producing includes assigning each node a unique identifier. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said producing includes assigning each set of nodes a unique identifier, wherein sets of nodes are identified in a hierarchy file. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, from the node visit data organized into sessions, if a user has viewed more nodes than a predetermined threshold within a predetermined period of time; and flagging the node visit data corresponding to the user with a flag indicating probable robotic activity. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the hierarchy definition specifies groups of nodes that belong to particular sets. 9. An apparatus for path discovery in a network, the apparatus comprising: a data collector configured to receive node visit data, wherein the node visit data indicates which users visited which nodes in the network at which times, organize the node visit data into sessions, and produce, from the node visit data, a list of all nodes visited; a node encoder configured to create a node-to-integer code mapping and an integer-to-node code mapping using the list of all nodes visited and a hierarchy definition; a data loader coupled to the data collector and to the node encoder and configured to convert nodes in the organized node visit data into corresponding integers using the node-to-integer code mapping, and remove duplicate, successive node visits within the same session from the converted, organized node visit data; a path engine coupled to the data loader and configured to calculate all unique pathviews for each session of the converted, organized node visit data, wherein no loop occurs in any unique pathview, wherein a pathview represents a sequence of two or more nodes in the order in which a user has visited the two or more nodes in a single session, and a pathview is unique if it is not identical to, or a subset of, another pathview of the single session, and calculate a frequency of occurrence of each unique pathview; and a path aggregator coupled to the path engine. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a path access application program interface coupled to the path aggregator. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising a reporting system coupled to the path access application program interface. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the node encoder is configured to assign each node or set of nodes in the list of all nodes visited a unique identifier. 13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the data loader is further configured to: determine, from the node visit data organized into sessions, if a user has viewed more nodes than a predetermined threshold within a predetermined period of time; and flag the node visit data corresponding to the user with a flag indicating probable robotic activity. 14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the hierarchy definition specifies groups of nodes that belong to particular sets. 