A system which performs a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, comprising a robotic arm and a processor, which may direct the robotic arm to interleave the differing process steps. The processor may select a tissue sample to be moved in response to timing information about the procedures, which may specify the start time and end time of each process step. The specified times may be exact or may be a range of times. The processor may determine the exact time for a step by generating a possible sequence of steps and examining that sequence for conflicts, adjusting that sequence in response to those steps with a specified range of times, and iterating the calculation over a plurality of possible sequences. The processor may also optimize the order in which samples are moved to minimize the total time required by the system to complete the procedures, e.g., by generating a plurality of possible sequences, evaluating each sequence for total expected time, and selecting the best sequence available. The processor may comprise a graphic interface by which an operator may specify the steps of a procedure.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic system to transport a plurality of samples, each sample undergoing a test procedure having a plurality of steps, to a plurality of work stations each associated with one of said steps wherein said samples are undergoing said test procedures substantially simultaneously, said system comprising a multi axis robotic device means having a predetermined working range area; a work table coextensive with said working range area; a plurality of work modules each associated with one of said steps disposed at identifiable locations on said work table; a computer capable of controlling said robotic device; means for inputting to said computer a set of physical dimensions and a location on said work table of said work modules; means for inputting to said computer a sequence of steps associated with each of said tests, each of said steps having a time of performance during which said sample must be located at the step's associated work station, said performance being completed at a step end time; means associated with said robotic means for coupling to a sample and capable of holding said sample during transportation between steps; means for scheduling said robotic device to move a sample sequentially to the work stations associated with the test said sample is undergoing and deposit said sample at said work station until said step end time is reached; means for scheduling the movement of each sample after the first step in the test so that it occurs while the other samples are disposed in their work stations; means for causing said robotic device to transport said samples responsive to said end times; means for comparing the scheduled time of movement of each of said samples to determine if conflicts exist, means for determining if multiple samples are scheduled to be disposed at the same work station during the same time, and means for adjusting the time schedule of any sample within a predetermined time duration to resolve any conflicts determined by said means for comparing. 2. A robotic system to transport a plurality of samples, each sample undergoing a test procedure having a plurality of steps, to a plurality of work stations each associated with one Of said steps wherein said samples are undergoing said test procedures substantially simultaneously, said system comprising a multi axis robotic device having a predetermined working range area; a work table substantially coextensive with said working range area; a plurality of work modules each associated with one of said steps disposed at identifiable locations on said work table; a computer capable of controlling said robotic device; means for inputting to said Computer a set of physical dimensions and a location on said work table for said work modules; means for inputting to said computer a sequence of steps associated with each of said tests, each of said steps having a time of performance during which said sample must be located at the step's associated work station, said performance being completed at a step end time; means associated with said robotic means for coupling to a sample and capable of holding said sample during transportation between steps.; means for scheduling said robotic device to move a sample sequentially to the work stations associated with the test said sample is undergoing and deposit said sample at said work station until said step end time is reached; means for scheduling the movement of each sample after the first step in the test so that it occurs While the other samples are disposed in their work stations; means for causing said robotic device to transport said samples responsive to said end times; means for optimizing the scheduling of said device, said means for optimizing including iteration means for producing a plurality of different schedules less than all possible schedules; means for providing statistical information concerning a time distribution of said plurality of different schedules; and means for halting said iteration and accept one of the schedules that comes close to the optimum schedule based on said statistical distribution. 3. Apparatus to control the scheduling of multiple tests, each test comprising several distinct steps, each step having a predetermined range of processing time and duration associated therewith, said apparatus comprising a. means for determining a starting time and a completion time for each of the steps in the multiple tests, b. means for scheduling the steps of said multiple tests in a single time sequence arrangement interleaving the steps of said tests, c. means for detecting time conflicts of interfering starting and completion times of said interleaved steps, d. means for resolving said time conflicts by adjusting the duration of one or more of said steps in response to said predetermined range of processing time and duration. 4. A method for controlling a robotic system so as to simultaneously process a number of samples through a variety of different assays, each assay associated with one of said samples and having one or more steps processing said associated sample at a work station, each of said steps having a predetermined range of duration-and processing time during which the sample must be located at said station wherein said robotic system includes; a. a work table defining a work area; b. a plurality of work modules each designed to process a sample through one step of an assay and each of said modules having physical characteristics associated therewith; c. means to dispose each of said work modules within said work area; d. means to determine the specific location of each of said modules; e. a robotic device having a plurality of movement axis and means to grasp one of said samples; f. computer means having a central processing unit; g. means to control said robotic device to cause said device to grasp and transport said samples responsive to the output of said central processing unit said method comprising the steps of 1. assigning a time to start each of said assays, 2. determining a desired start time and a desired completion time for each of said steps, responsive to the start time for each of said assays and the predetermined range of processing time associated with each of the steps of said assays, 3. creating a schedule time interleaving of all of said steps responsive to said start times, 4. determining the existence of interfering times therein the start or completion time of one step is scheduled at the same time as the start or completion time of another step, 5. resolving, said conflicts by adjusting the duration of at least one such step to produce a nonconflicting schedule to perform all the steps of each of the assays in a time multiplexed manner, 6. reviewing and iterating the steps of this method to produce a practical optimized non-conflicting schedule, 7. providing data input to said central processing unit defining the location and physical characteristics of each of said work stations, 8. creating output signals from said central processing unit to control said robotic device in accordance with said optimized schedule and input data to cause the robotic device to transport and deposit each of said samples in a work station in accordance with said schedule. 5. A method of simultaneously exposing a plurality of test samples to a multiplicity of tests, each sample being subjected to one of said tests and each test having a number of steps, said method comprising a. selecting the test to which each sample is to be exposed; b. determining the steps that compose the selected tests; c. ascertaining a predetermined duration and time range for each step; d. scheduling all of said steps into a single program; e. determining if time conflicts exist between steps of multiple processes; f. adjusting the timing of any conflicting steps by altering the start or stop times in response to said predetermined duration and time ranges; to provide a time sequential arrangement for all the steps comprising all the tests. 6. A system for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, said system comprising a robotic arm for moving the samples among a plurality of processing stations; and a processor for selecting, at a plurality of times, a sample to be moved, and for directing said robotic arm to move said sample to be moved; said processor having means for directing said robotic arm to interleave the process steps of said plurality of independent analysis procedures; wherein said processor comprises means for generating a plurality of possible sequences of process steps, less than all possible sequences;. means for determining statistical information about a time distribution of said plurality; and means for selecting one of said plurality with a desired total expected time, so as to substantially minimize a total time required to complete said procedures. 7. A system as in claim 6, wherein said processing stations are disposed in a set of grid locations, wherein said robotic arm is coupled to a robotic device, and wherein said robotic device comprises a bench robot with a rotatable tower and with sufficient degrees of freedom that it is able to reach each of the grid locations with suitable movement. 8. A system as in claim 6, wherein said processing stations comprise workstations for performing individual steps of the analysis procedures. 9. A system as in claim 6, wherein at least one said processing station comprises one of the group: a bioassay workstation, a biomedical workstation, a chemical process workstation. 10. A system as in claim 6, wherein said processor comprises a memory for storing a start time and an end time for each said process step. 11. A system as in claim 6, wherein said processor comprises a memory for storing timing information for each said process step, said timing information comprising a range of times at which said process step may be in a predetermined state. 12. A system as in claim 6, wherein said processor comprises means for selecting said sample to be moved in response to timing information about said procedures. 13. A system as in claim 6, comprising means for halting the operation of said means for generating in response to said plurality of possible sequences and said statistical information. 14. A system as in claim 6, comprising means for halting the operation of said means for generating when said total expected time of one of said plurality is close to a total expect time computed in response to said statistical distribution. 15. A system for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, said system comprising a robotic arm for moving the samples among a plurality of processing stations; and a processor for selecting, at a plurality of times, a sample to be moved, and for directing said robotic arm to move said sample to be moved; said processor having means for directing said robotic arm to interleave the process steps of said plurality of independent analysis procedures; wherein said processor comprises a memory for storing timing information for each said process step, said timing information comprising a predetermined range of durations during which said process step may be in a predetermined state; and means for determining an exact time to start each said process step in a first said procedure in response to timing information for at least one process step in a second said procedure. 16. A system as in claim 15, wherein said means for determining comprises means for generating a possible sequence of process steps; means for examining said possible sequence for possible conflicts; and means for altering said possible sequence in response to said timing information and said possible conflicts. 17. A system as in claim 15, wherein said means for determining comprises means for generating a possible sequence of process steps; means for examining said possible sequence for timing conflicts occurring before a known time value; means for advancing said known time value from a beginning of said possible sequence to an end of said possible sequence; means, when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first process step has a range of times at which it may be started, for selecting an exact time to start said first process step; and means, when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first and second process steps have exact times at which they may be started, for backtracking said known time value and altering said possible sequence starting from said backtracked known time value to avoid said timing conflict. 18. A system as in claim 15, wherein said processor comprises means for generating a plurality of possible sequences of process steps; means for evaluating each said possible sequence for total expected time; and means for selecting one said possible sequence with a desired total expected time, so as to minimize a total time required to complete said procedures. 19. A system for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, said system comprising a robotic arm for moving the samples among a plurality of processing stations; and a processor for selecting, at a plurality of times, a sample to be moved, and for directing said robotic arm to move said sample to be moved; said processor having means for directing said robotic arm to interleave the process steps of said plurality of independent analysis procedures; wherein said processor comprises a display screen showing a set of predetermined symbols representing process steps; means for selecting one of said symbols shown on said display screen in response to a selection from an operator; means for associating a process step with said symbol; means for associating said process step with a physical location where said process step is to be performed; and means for recording an ordered sequence of said process steps. 20. A system as in claim 19, wherein said means for identifying comprises a pointing device. 21. A system as in claim 19, comprising means for receiving information from said operator about the process step associated with said symbol. 22. A system as in claim 21, wherein said information comprises timing information. 23. A system as in claim 21, wherein said information comprises a minimum time and a maximum time for said process step associated with said symbol. 24. A system for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, said system comprising a robotic arm for moving the samples among a plurality of processing stations; and a processor for selecting, at a plurality of times, a sample to be moved, and for directing said robotic arm to move said sample to be moved; said processor having means for directing said robotic arm to interleave the process steps of said plurality of independent analysis procedures; wherein said processor comprises a display screen showing a set of predetermined symbols representing process steps; means for drawing one of said symbols on said display screen in response to information from an operator; means for associating said process step with a physical location where said process step is to be performed; and means for associating a processing station with said new symbol. 25. A system as in claim 24, wherein said means for drawing comprises a pointing device. 26. A system as in claim 25, comprising means for receiving information from said operator about the processing station associated with said new symbol. 27. A system for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, said system comprising a robotic arm for moving the samples among a plurality of processing stations; a processor for selecting, at a plurality of times, a sample to be moved, and for directing said robotic arm to move said sample to be moved; said processor having means for directing said robotic arm to interleave the process steps of said plurality of independent analysis procedures; means for monitoring dynamic progress information for said procedures; and means for altering a sequence of said process steps in response to said progress information and in response to information from an operator. 28. A system as in claim 27, wherein said means for altering comprises means for receiving a command from said operator for changing said sequence of process steps; and means for determining a new sequence of process steps in response to said command and in response to timing information about said process steps. 29. A system as in claim 27, wherein said means for altering comprises means for generating a possible new sequence of process steps from a time said altering occurs onward; means for examining said possible new sequence for possible conflicts; and means for altering said possible new sequence in response to said timing information and said possible conflicts. 30. A system as in claim 27, wherein said means for , determining comprises means for generating a possible new sequence of process steps from a time said altering occurs onward; means for examining said possible new sequence for timing conflicts occurring before a known time value; means for advancing said known time value from the time said altering occurs an end of said possible new sequence; means, when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first process step has a range of times at which it may be started, for selecting an exact time to start said first process step; means, when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first and second process steps have exact times at which they may be started, for backtracking said known time value and altering said possible new sequence starting from said backtracked known time value to avoid said timing conflict; and means for signalling an error when said known time value is backtracked beyond the time said altering occurs. 31. A method for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, said method comprising the steps of selecting, at a plurality of times, a sample to be moved, said step of selecting comprising the steps of (1) generating a plurality of possible sequences of process steps, less than all possible sequences, (2) determining statistical information about a time distribution of said plurality, (3) selecting a preferred one of said plurality with a desired total expected time, so as to substantially minimize a total time required to complete said procedures, and (4) selecting said sample to be moved in accordance with said preferred one of said plurality of possible sequences; directing a robotic arm to move said sample to be moved by interleaving the process steps of said plurality of independent analysis procedures. 32. A method as in claim 31, comprising the step of storing a start time and an end time for each said process step. 33. A method as in claim 31, comprising the step of storing timing information for each said process step, said timing information comprising a range of times at which said process step may be in a predetermined state. 34. A method as in claim 31, comprising the step of selecting said sample to be moved in response to timing information about said procedures. 35. A method as in claim 31, comprising the steps of storing timing information for each said process step, said timing information comprising a predetermined range of durations during which said process step may be in a predetermined state; and determining an exact time to start each said process step in a first said procedure in response to timing information for at least one process step in a second said procedure. 36. A method as in claim 35, wherein said step of determining comprises the steps of generating a possible sequence of process steps; examining said possible sequence for possible conflicts; and altering said possible sequence in response to said timing information and said possible conflicts. 37. A method as in claim 35, wherein said step of determining comprises the steps of generating a possible sequence of process steps; examining said possible sequence for timing conflicts occurring before a known time value; advancing said known time value from a beginning of said possible sequence to an end of said possible sequence; selecting an exact time to start said first process step when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first process step has a range of times at which it may be started; and backtracking said known time value and altering said possible sequence starting from said backtracked known time value to avoid said timing conflict when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first and second process steps have exact times at which they may be started. 38. A method as in claim 35, comprising the steps of generating a plurality of possible sequences of process steps; evaluating each said possible sequence for total expected time; and selecting one said possible sequence with a desired total expected time, so as to minimize a total time required to complete said procedures. 39. A method as in claim 31, comprising the steps of identifying a symbol shown on a display screen in response to a selection from an operator; associating a process step with said symbol; and recording an ordered sequence of said process steps. 40. A method as in claim 39, comprising the step of receiving information from said operator about the process step associated with said symbol. 41. A method as in claim 40, wherein said information comprises timing information. 42. A method as in claim 40, wherein said information comprises a minimum time and a maximum time for said process step associated with said symbol. 43. A method as in claim 31, comprising drawing a new symbol on a display screen in response to information from an operator; and associating a processing station with said new symbol. 44. A method as in claim 43, comprising the step of receiving information from said operator about the processing station associated with said new symbol. 45. A method as in claim 31, comprising the steps of monitoring progress information for said procedures; and altering a sequence of said process steps in response to said progress information and in response to information from an operator. 46. A method as in claim 45, wherein said step of altering comprises the steps of receiving a command from said operator for changing said sequence of process steps; and determining a new sequence of process steps in response to said command and in response to timing information about said process steps. 47. A method as in claim 45, wherein said step of altering comprises the steps of generating a possible new sequence of process steps from a time said altering occurs onward; examining said possible new sequence for possible conflicts; and altering said possible new sequence in response to said timing information and said possible conflicts. 48. A method as in claim 45, wherein said step of determining comprises the steps of generating a possible new sequence of process steps from a time said altering occurs onward; examining said possible new sequence for timing conflicts occurring before a known time value; advancing said known time value from the time said altering occurs an end of said possible new sequence; selecting an exact time to start said first process step when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first process step has a range of times at which it may be started; backtracking said known time value and altering said possible new sequence starting from said backtracked known time value to avoid said timing conflict when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first and second process steps have exact times at which they may be started; and signalling an error when said known time value is backtracked beyond the time said altering occurs. 49. In a system for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, a data structure comprising an entry for each one of a plurality of process steps, each said entry comprising a predetermined range of durations at which said process step may be in a predetermined state. 50. A system for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, said system comprising a robotic arm for moving the samples among a plurality of processing stations; a processor for selecting, at a plurality of times, a sample to be moved, and for directing said robotic arm to move said sample to be moved; said processor having means for directing said robotic arm to interleave the process steps of said plurality of independent analysis procedures; means for monitoring progress information for said procedures; and means for altering a sequence of said process steps in response to said progress information and in response to information from an operator; wherein said means for altering comprises (1) means for generating a possible new sequence of process steps from a time said altering occurs onward, (2) means for examining said possible new sequence for possible conflicts, and (3) means for altering said possible new sequence in response to said timing information and said possible conflicts. 51. A system for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, said system comprising a robotic arm for moving the samples among a plurality of processing stations; a processor for selecting, at a plurality of times, a sample to be moved, and for directing said robotic arm to move said sample to be moved; said processor having means for directing said robotic arm to interleave the process steps of said plurality of independent analysis procedures; means for monitoring progress information for said procedures; and means for altering a sequence of said process steps in response to said progress information and in response to information from an operator; wherein said means for determining comprises (1) means for generating a possible new sequence of process steps from a time said altering occurs onward, (2) means for examining said possible new sequence for timing conflicts occurring before a known time value, (3) means for advancing said known time value from the time said altering occurs an end of said possible new sequence, (4) means, when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first process step has a range of times at which it may be started, for selecting an exact time to start said first process step, (5) means, when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first and second process steps have exact times at which they may be started, for backtracking said known time value and altering said possible new sequence starting from said backtracked known time value to avoid said timing conflict, and (6) means for signalling an error when said known time value is backtracked beyond the time said altering occurs. 52. A method for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, said method comprising the steps of selecting, at a plurality of times, a sample to be moved; directing a robotic arm to move said sample to be moved by interleaving the process steps of said plurality of independent analysis procedures; monitoring progress information for said procedures; and altering a sequence of said process steps in response to said progress information and in response to information from an operator) wherein said step of altering comprises the steps of (1) generating a possible new sequence of process steps from a time said altering occurs onward, (2) examining said possible new sequence for possible conflicts, and (3) altering said possible new sequence in response to said timing information and said possible conflicts. 53. A method for performing a plurality of independent analysis procedures simultaneously, each said procedure having a sample and at least one process step for operating on that sample, said method comprising the steps of selecting, at a plurality of times, a sample to be moved; directing a robotic arm to move said sample to be moved by interleaving the process steps of said plurality of independent analysis procedures; monitoring progress information for said procedures; and altering a sequence of said process steps in response to said progress information and in response to information from an operator; wherein said step of determining comprises the steps of (1) generating a possible new sequence of process steps from a time said altering occurs onward, (2) examining said possible new sequence for timing conflicts occurring before a known time value, (3) advancing said known time value from the time said altering occurs an end of said possible new sequence, (4) selecting an exact time to start said first process step when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first process step has a range of times at which it may be started, (5) backtracking said known time value and altering said possible new sequence starting from said backtracked known time value to avoid said timing conflict when a first process step is found to have a timing conflict with a second process step and said first and second process steps have exact times at which they may be started, and (6) signalling an error when said known time value is backtracked beyond the time said altering occurs. 