An automotive truck for moving a robot along a surface comprises a chassis and at least one platform hingedly connected to the chassis at one end of the platform. A drive wheel is rotatably mounted to the platform. A spring is connected at an opposite end of the platform pressing the drive wheel against the surface.
Claims We claim: 1. An automotive truck for a robot, the truck being able to move along an uneven surface, the truck comprising: a chassis having an upper surface; at least one platform movably mounted to the chassis; a drive wheel rotatably mounted to the platform; elastic means for pressing the drive wheel toward the surface; a robot having a base and a body rotatably mounted to the base, the base mounted on the upper surface of the chassis, the base having a central portion, the robot being rotatable about the base at least 360.degree.; and motive means for rotating the robot, the motive means comprising a crown wheel mounted to the central portion of the base, a motor with cogwheel engaged to the crown wheel, a gear mounted at the central portion of the base and an encoder engaged with the gear. 2. The automotive truck according to claim 1, wherein the base has a groove in a perimeter of the base and the robot also including a limit arm rotatably mounted to the body, the limit arm having an end insertable into the groove of the base for permitting rotation of the limit arm in the groove. 3. The automotive truck according to claim 2, wherein the robot has a plurality of arms movably mounted to the robot, a pulley connected to each arm, a cog belt connected to each pulley, a base motor for each robot arm positioned in the base, the cog belts being connected to a base motor, and a robot encoder connected to each pulley. 4. The automotive truck according to claim 3, including a toolhead having at least one wire and a hollow pin connecting the toolhead and one of the robot arms, the hollow pin allowing the wire to pass from the toolhead into the robot arm. 