Methods and apparatuses for assemblying, handling, and fabrication are disclosed in which targets are used on objects. The targets can be specifically applied to the object, or can be an otherwise normal feature of the object. Conveniently, the targets are removable from the object or covered by another object during an assemblying process. One or more robots and imaging devices for the targets are used. The robots can be used to handle or assemble a part, or a fixture may be used in conjunction with the robots. Conveniently, the CAD design system is used in designing the targets as well as for the assembly process using the targets. A plurality of targets can also be used to monitor and inspect a forming process such as on a sheet panel.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for controlling an assembly process where a movable robot assembles a first part relative to a second part comprising the steps of: affixing targets to one of the robot, first part, and second part; locating a TV camera at a known position relative to one of the other of the robot, first part and second part; grasping the first part with the robot; determining with the TV camera the position of the targeted one of the robot, first part and second part; and automatically controlling the movement of the robot to assemble the first part relative to the second part based on the determined position of the targeted one of the robot, first part and second part relative to the TV camera and other one of the others of the robot, first par and second part. 2. A method for controlling an assembly process as claimed in claim 1 and further including the step of grasping the second part with a second movable robot. 3. A method for controlling an assembly process as claimed in claim 2 and further including the steps of affixing additional targets to the second robot. 4. A method for controlling an assembly process as claimed in claim 3 wherein said locating steps includes the mounting of the TV camera on the first-mentioned robot, and the further step of mounting a second TV camera at a known position on the second robot. 5. A method for controlling an assembly process as claimed in claim 4 wherein the first-mentioned targets are affixed to the first-mentioned robot, and wherein the determining step includes the determining of the position of the first-mentioned robot using the targets thereon and the second TV camera, and the determining of the position of the second robot using the targets thereon and the first-mentioned TV camera. 6. A method for controlling an assembly process as claimed in claim 2 wherein said controlling step includes the controlling of both the first-mentioned robot and the second robot for maintain correct part relationships during assembly. 7. A method of handling and assembling a composite part comprising the steps of: affixing targets to a base part of the composite part; grasping the base part with a robot; locating a TV camera at a known position in space; viewing the targets with the TV camera during handling and assembling of an additional part to the base part to form the composite part; continuously determining the location of the base part in space using the TV camera during handling and assembling; and automatically guiding the robot to handle and assemble the composite part using the determined locations in space. 8. A method of handling and assembling as claimed in claim 7 wherein said affixing step includes the affixing of the targets to a face of the base part which faces away from the robot during the guiding step. 9. A method of handling and assembling as claimed in claim 8 and further including the steps of locating a second TV camera on a second robot, viewing the targets with the second TV camera, continuously determining the position of the base part relative to the second robot during handling and assembling, and automatically guiding the second robot relative to the base part to orient a second part relative to the base part. 10. A method of handling and assembling as claimed in claim 8 wherein said applying step further includes the affixing of targets on an additional face of the base part. 11. A method for assembling a part relative to a fixture comprising the steps of: affixing targets to the fixture; locating a TV camera in position to view the targets and the part; continuously determining the position of the part relative to the fixture with the TV camera; grasping the part with a moveable robot; and automatically guiding the robot to place the part in the fixture using the continuously determined positions of the part relative to the fixture. 12. A method for assembling as claimed in claim 11 and further including the step of affixing targets to the part which targets are viewed by the TV camera to determine the part position in the determining step. 13. A method for assembling as claimed in claim 11 wherein the fixture includes an object thereon which engages the part, and further including the steps of affixing targets to the object which targets are viewed by the TV camera and determining the position of the part relative to the object with the TV camera. 14. A method for assembling as claimed in claim 13 and further including the step of affixing targets to the part which targets are viewed by the TV camera to determine the part position in the determining step. 15. A method for a dynamic fabrication of a part with a movable robot comprising the steps of: affixing targets to open of the part and robot; engaging the part with the robot; automatically moving the robot in a predetermined manner; continuously viewing the targets; determining the position of the targeted one of the part and robot; and continuously and automatically correcting an actual movement of the robot in view of the determined position of the targeted one of the part and robot to correct for any deviations from the predetermined manner of movement desired. 16. A method for for fabrication as claimed in claim 15 wherein said viewing step includes the viewing of the targets with a solid state TV camera. 