An apparatus for depositing liquid material onto a workpiece in the form of a deposit having a desired conformation wherein the material is discharged under pressure from the nozzle of a dispensing gun which can be manipulated by a robot to lay the deposit according to a programmed pattern on the workpiece. One or more gas jets is directed toward the material after the material is discharged from the nozzle to impart a desired conformation to the material deposited on the workpiece. The flow rate of the gas jets is controlled in accordance with the liquid flow rate to maintain substantial uniformity of the conformation of the deposit. The flow rate of the gas jets may also be controlled with reference to a toolspeed signal which varies according to the relative speed between the nozzle and the workpiece as well as an auxiliary signal the latter of which can be used to selectively alter the conformation of the deposit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for dispensing fluid material onto a workpiece, said apparatus comprising: (a) inlet means connectable to a source of the material for receiving material from said source; (b) nozzle means communicating with said inlet means and having an outlet for discharging a stream of the material toward the workpiece to form a deposit of the material thereon; (c) gas jet forming means for forming at least one gas jet impinging upon at least one of, said stream and said deposit to impart a desired conformation to said deposit; (d) sensing means for generating a first signal correlated to the flow rate of the fluid material, and (e) control means connected to said gas jet forming means, said control means utilizing at least said first signal for generating a control signal for modulating the flow of gas issuing from said gas jet forming means as to maintain substantial uniformity of said conformation of said deposit of material. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said control means further comprises: electropneumatic transducer means having a gas inlet communicating with a source of said gas and a gas outlet connected to said gas jet forming means, said electropneumatic transducer means being responsive to said control signal to control the flow of gas from said gas inlet to said gas jet forming means. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said electropneumatic transducer comprises at least one of; a current to pressure transducer and, a voltage to pressure transducer and wherein said source of said gas is a pressurized source. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said electropneumatic transducer comprises a variable pump and wherein said source of said gas is the atmosphere. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said control means includes means for decreasing said flow of gas issuing from said gas jet forming means when said parameter indicates a drop in said pressure of the fluid material in order to prevent said gas jet from spattering said fluid material on the workpiece. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising pump means connected to said inlet means for supplying fluid material under pressure thereto, said pump means defining a pump operating cycle including at least one interval associated with a drop in said fluid material pressure, said sensing means operating to determine said interval by sensing said pump operating cycle. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said sensing means senses the position of a movable member of said pump. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said pump is an electrical pump and said sensing means senses a parameter correlated with the electrical power driving said pump. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said control means further includes means for combining a toolspeed signal with said first signal to derive said control signal, said toolspeed signal being correlated to the relative speed between said workpiece and said outlet. 10. An apparatus for dispensing fluid materials onto a workpiece, said apparatus comprising: (a) inlet means connectable to a source of the material for receiving material from said source; (b) nozzle means communicating with said inlet means for discharging a stream of the material toward the workpiece to form a deposit of the material thereon; (c) gas jet forming means for forming at least one gas jet impinging upon at least one of, said stream and said deposit to impart a desired conformation to said deposit; (d) manipulator means for effecting relative movement between said nozzle and said workpiece along a predetermined path, and (e) control means connected to said gas jet forming means, said control means utilizing at least an auxiliary signal variable in accordance with the position of said nozzle along said path for generating a control signal for modulating the flow of gas issuing from said gas jet forming means so that said conformation of said deposit can be selectively varied over different portions of said path. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 further comprising, sensing means for generating a first signal correlated to the pressure of the fluid material at a location upstream of said outlet, said control means including means for combining said first signal and said auxiliary signal to derive said control signal. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said control means further comprises means for combining said first signal and said auxiliary signal with a toolspeed signal to derive said control signal, said toolspeed signal being correlated to the speed of relative movement between said workpiece and said outlet. 13. An apparatus for dispensing fluid material onto a workpiece, said apparatus comprising: (a) means for discharging a stream of the material under pressure from a nozzle having an outlet directed toward the workpiece; (b) means for effecting relative movement between the nozzle and the workpiece along a path to deposit said material in the form of a bead upon the workpiece; (c) means for directing a flow of gas toward at least one of, said stream and said bead to impart a desired conformation to said bead, and (d) means for reducing said flow of gas when said pressure drops, said reduction being sufficient to avoid spattering of the material on the workpiece. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising: means for sensing the pressure of the fluid material at a location upstream of said outlet, and means for initiating said reducing step upon sensing a reduction in said pressure. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising: means for pumping the material to said nozzle according to a pumping cycle including at least one interval of reduced pumping pressure, and means for initiating said reducing step in timed relation to said interval. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 further comprising: means for monitoring said pumping cycle to determine the occurrence of said interval. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said monitoring means includes means for sensing the position of a movable member of the pump. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said pumping means includes a power driven pump and said monitoring means includes means for sensing changes in a parameter correlated to the power driving the pump. 19. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said means for directing said flow of gas includes means for forming a plurality of gas jets focused on said stream at a location intermediate said outlet and said workpiece. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said jets emanate from a plurality of locations substantially equally radially spaced outward relative said outlet and said jets are oriented along a velocity vector having both a first component directed substantially radially inwardly toward said outlet and a second component directed substantially parallel to said stream. 21. An apparatus for dispensing fluid material onto a workpiece, said apparatus comprising: (a) means for discharging a stream of the material under pressure from a nozzle having an outlet directed toward the workpiece; (b) means for effecting relative movement between the nozzle and the workpiece to form a deposit of said material in a pattern on the workpiece; (c) means for directing a flow of gas toward at least one of, said stream and said deposit to impart a desired conformation to said deposit, and (d) means for modulating said flow of gas in accordance with said pressure to maintain substantial uniformity of said conformation of said deposit over at least a portion of said pattern. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said modulating means includes means for decreasing said flow in response to decreases in said pressure. 23. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said modulating means includes means for increasing said flow in response to increases in said pressure. 24. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein said modulating means includes means for both decreasing said flow in response to decreases in said pressure and increasing said flow in response to increases in said pressure. 25. An apparatus for dispensing fluid material onto a workpiece, said apparatus comprising: (a) means for discharging a stream of the material under pressure from a nozzle; (b) means for effecting relative movement between the nozzle and the workpiece along a path to form a deposit of said material in a pattern on the workpiece; (c) gas flow directing means for directing a flow of gas toward at least one of, said stream and said deposit to impart a desired conformation to said deposit, and (d) means connected to said gas flow directing means for modulating said flow of gas in accordance with an auxiliary signal selectively variable as a function of the position of said nozzle along said path in order to selectively vary said conformation of said deposit over said different portions of said pattern. 26. An apparatus for dispensing fluid material onto a workpiece, said apparatus comprising: (a) means for discharging a stream of the material under pressure from a nozzle; (b) means for effecting relative movement between the nozzle and the workpiece along a path to form a deposit of said material in a pattern on the workpiece; (c) means for directing a flow of gas toward at least one of, said stream and said deposit to impart a desired conformation to said deposit, and (d) means for modulating said flow of gas in accordance with both said pressure of said fluid material and the relative speed between said workpiece and said nozzle to maintain substantial uniformity of said conformation of said deposit over at least a portion of said pattern. 