There is described a synthetic marker encoding data, the synthetic marker comprising an information payload represented by bits encoded along a spectrum, each of the bits having a priority level assigned thereto ranging from high to low, bits having lower priority levels being encoded along an end of the spectrum which is successively lost with progressively degrading marker viewing conditions compared to bits having higher priority levels.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of producing a synthetic marker encoding an information payload, the method comprising: providing a representation of the information payload along a spectrum, the information payload comprising bits having respective priority levels ranging from high to low assigned thereto, bits having lower priority levels being encoded along an end of the spectrum which is successively lost with progressively degrading marker viewing conditions compared to bits having higher priority levels; mapping the representation into a spatial domain to pixel intensities; and constructing a spatial pattern from the representation mapped in the spatial domain to produce the synthetic marker which contains the information payload. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the spectrum is a frequency spectrum and wherein the providing a representation comprises representing the bits having successively lower priority levels using successively higher frequencies in the frequency spectrum. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the spectrum is a frequency spectrum and wherein the providing a representation comprises representing bits having successively higher priority levels using successively lower frequencies in the frequency spectrum. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said constructing a spatial pattern comprises sampling the representation of the data to produce a row of pixels, the row of pixels defining the spatial pattern. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said constructing a spatial pattern comprises rotating the row of pixels about a point on the row to produce a circular synthetic marker. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing a representation comprises synthesizing a discrete periodic function. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing a representation comprises encoding phase information. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing a representation comprises using one of an On/Off keying (OOK) modulation, a phase modulation, an amplitude modulation or a vector quantization to represent the bits. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the mapping comprises applying a fast Fourier transform (FFT) to the representation. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the mapping comprises using pixel color to encode data into the synthetic marker. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the constructing comprises scaling the mapping according to a given range of pixel intensities. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising modulating the spatial pattern to add data into the synthetic marker. 13. A synthetic marker encoding data, the synthetic marker comprising an information payload represented by bits encoded along a spectrum, each of said bits having a priority level assigned thereto ranging from high to low, bits having lower priority levels being encoded along an end of the spectrum which is successively lost with progressively degrading marker viewing conditions compared to bits having higher priority levels. 14. The synthetic marker of claim 13, wherein the data is encoded using a frequency spectrum. 15. The synthetic marker of claim 13, wherein the synthetic marker has a shape defined by a rotation of a ray of pixels, the ray of pixels corresponding to the bits encoded along a frequency spectrum mapped into a spatial domain. 16. The synthetic marker of claim 13, wherein an amount of the information payload decoded upon detection of the synthetic marker is proportional to a resolution level of an image taken of the synthetic marker for the detection. 17. A method for detecting a synthetic marker encoding an information payload, the method comprising: capturing an image of said synthetic marker using an image acquisition device; and extracting from said image at least a portion of the information payload, the information payload comprising data bits encoded along a spectrum, wherein the portion extracted is dependent on a viewing condition of the image, a successive degradation in the viewing condition of the image resulting in a successive loss of the data bits having successively lower priority levels assigned thereto. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the extracting comprises determining a location of the synthetic marker on the image and extracting a portion of the synthetic marker for analysis. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the synthetic marker is a circular symmetric marker, and wherein the extracting comprises finding a center of the circular symmetric marker. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the extracting further comprises: growing a ray in opposite directions from the center of the synthetic marker until an intensity value of two pixels each located at an end of the ray indicate a break in a symmetry of the circular symmetric marker; and extracting the ray from the image. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the extracting the ray comprises performing a Fourier transform on the ray extracted. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein the extracting comprises determining a location of each one of the bits in the information payload along the spectrum based on parameters used for encoding the data into the synthetic marker. 23. A system for encoding data to produce a synthetic marker, the system comprising: a processing unit; a database coupled to the processing unit for storing the data; and an application coupled to the processing unit, the application being configured for: providing a representation of the information payload along a spectrum, the information payload comprising bits having respective priority levels ranging from high to low assigned thereto, bits having lower priority levels being encoded along an end of the spectrum which is successively lost with progressively degrading marker viewing conditions compared to bits having higher priority levels; mapping the representation into a spatial domain to pixel intensities; and constructing a spatial pattern from the representation mapped in the spatial domain to produce the synthetic marker which contains the information payload. 24. A system for detecting a synthetic marker encoding an information payload, tire system comprising: an image acquisition device for capturing an image of said synthetic marker; a processing unit coupled, to the image acquisition device; and an application coupled to the processing unit, the application configured for: accessing the image captured by the image acquisition device; and extracting from said image at least a portion of the information payload, the information payload comprising data bits encoded along a spectrum, wherein the portion extracted is dependent on a viewing condition of the image, a successive degradation in the viewing condition of the image resulting in a successive loss of the data bits having successively lower priority levels assigned thereto. 