An optical flow sensor for generating optical flow measurements based on a visual field is provided. The optical flow sensor comprises a binarized signal generator capable of generating binarized feature signals based on the visual field, a metafeature signal generator capable of generating metafeature signals based on the binarized feature signals, an apparatus for generating velocity reports based on the metafeature signals, and an apparatus for generating an optical flow measurement based on the velocity reports.
Claims I claim: 1. An optical flow sensor comprising: a first circuit capable of obtaining a plurality of first digital signals based on a plurality of binarized signals computed in accordance with a function based on information from a visual field; an apparatus capable of obtaining a plurality of velocity reports based on the plurality of first digital signals; a fusing apparatus capable of obtaining an optical flow measurement based on the plurality of velocity reports; and a binary generator capable of generating the plurality of binarized signals. 2. The optical flow sensor of claim 1, wherein the binary generator comprises a winner-takes-all circuit. 3. The optical flow sensor of claim 1, wherein the binary generator comprises a switched capacitor circuit. 4. An optical flow sensor comprising: a first circuit capable of obtaining a plurality of first digital signals based on a plurality of binarized signals computed in accordance with a function based on information from a visual field; an apparatus ca able of obtaining a plurality of velocity reports based on the plurality of first digital signals; and a fusing apparatus capable of obtaining an optical flow measurement based on the plurality of velocity resorts, wherein: the first circuit is capable of generating a plurality of edge metafeature signals based on the plurality of binarized signals; and the apparatus is capable of generating the plurality of velocity reports based on the edge metafeature signals. 