A functional assay detection system for membrane bound proteins. The system comprises a biological array including a porous substrate having a plurality of membranes adhered thereto and a first side and a second side, a fluorescent labeling reagent configured to couple to the membrane bound proteins, a pulsed light assembly configured to excite the fluorescent labeling reagent, and a time-delayed imaging device configured to capture emitted fluorescence of the fluorescent labeling reagent. The pulsed light assembly is configured to excite the fluorescent labeling reagent from at least one of the first side and the second side of the porous substrate, and the fluorescent labeling reagent comprises a fluorophore that has an emission lifetime that is in the range of microseconds.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A functional assay detection system for membrane bound proteins, comprising: a biological array including a porous substrate having a plurality of membranes adhered thereto, the porous substrate having a first side and a second side; a fluorescent labeling reagent configured to couple to the membrane bound proteins, the fluorescent labeling reagent comprising a fluorophore having an emission lifetime that is in the range of microseconds; a pulsed light assembly configured to excite the fluorescent labeling reagent; a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera comprising: a digital delay generator (DDG), an optical shutter, and at least one sensor array of electrons wells; and a readout device, wherein the CCD is configured to allow separate control of the optical shutter and electron transfer from the sensor array so that a multitude of trigger pulses from the pulsed light assembly repeatedly trigger the opening and closing of the optical shutter to allow photons from the excited fluorescent labelling reagent to cause the accumulation of electrons in the sensor array wells over the course of many pulses of the pulsed light assembly while blocking the autofluorescence photons so that many pulses of fluorescent light can be integrated in each sensor well before subsequently transferring the electrons captured in the sensor array to a readout device for signal processing. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the membrane bound protein is a G protein-coupled receptor. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the fluorescent labeling reagent is a lanthanide chelate selected from the group consisting of Europium, Samarium, Terbium, Dysprosium and Holmium. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the pulsed light assembly comprises a Q-switched laser. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the time-delayed imaging device comprises a charged-coupled device. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the fluorescent labeling reagent comprises Europium as the fluorophore and the pulsed light assembly is configured to excite the Europium at a wavelength of about 355 nm. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the laser pulse has a laser pulse width less than the emission lifetime of the fluorophore. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the optical shutter is an intensifier plate. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the CCD is an intensified CCD. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein integration in the sensor wells before the subsequent transfer of electrons captured in the sensor array affords increases in the signal to noise ratio. 11. A functional assay detection system for G protein-coupled receptor microarrays disposed on porous substrates labeled with an Europium chelate, comprising: an ultraviolet pulsed light assembly configured to excite the Europium chelate; and a time-delayed imaging device configured to capture emitted fluorescence of the Europium chelate wherein the time-delayed imaging device comprises a digital delay generator that is capable of being triggered by a laser pulse, the triggering of the digital delay generator being adapted to cause a shutter coupled to the imaging device to allow the emitted fluorescence to be collected and integrated over numerous laser pulses by a sensor. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the porous substrate has a first side and a second side. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the ultraviolet pulsed light assembly is configured to excite the Europium chelate from at least one of the first side and the second side of the porous substrate. 14. The system of claim 11, wherein the porous substrate is part of a microplate assay device having a plurality of wells, the plurality of wells being configured to contain the G protein-coupled receptor microarrays. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the ultraviolet pulsed light assembly comprises a Q-switched laser. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein the time-delayed imaging device comprises a charged-coupled device. 17. The system of claim 11, wherein the time-delayed imaging device is a charge-coupled device. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the CCD is an intensified CCD. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the shutter is an intensifier plate. 