A fully automated residential-type circuit breaker assembly is made possible by the provision of retaining slots and guide channels formed within the breaker case. The breaker case then serves as an assembly fixture for specially designed armatures and magnets used within the trip section of the breaker as well as for a special designed bi-metallic trip element. A high calibration yield is accomplished by means of a low friction latch assembly.
Claims We claim: 1. An electric circuit breaker for fully automated assembly comprising: a molded plastic case having a plurality of retaining slots and guide channels formed therein; a trip unit and terminal assembly consisting of a lug terminal and bi-metal at one end and a contact blade having top and bottom ends at an opposite end joined by means of a braided conductor; a magnet assembly consisting of an armature and magnet core, said armature being formed from a single L-shaped metal piece having a narrow top piece and a wider angled bottom piece which includes a latch opening, said magnet core being formed from a single L-shaped metal piece having a top angled piece for providing a pivot to said core, a bottom angled piece and a hook extension for engaging said armature bottom piece which forms a closed magnetic loop in cooperation with said armature bottom piece; a cradle formed from a U-shaped piece having a handle tab at a top for engaging a handle, a latch portion at an end of one leg of the U for releasably engaging said latch opening and a circular end member at an end of another leg of the U, said circular member pivotally supporting the cradle within said case; and a mechanism spring connecting between said cradle and said contact blade to bias a moveable contact on said contact blade into contact with a fixed contact supported on said case when an operating handle is in a closed position for providing current flow through said contacts and for rapidly separating said contacts when said trip unit releases said cradle latch portion from said latch opening upon excess current flow through said contacts. 2. The circuit breaker of claim 1 wherein said trip unit and terminal assembly, said cradle and said magnetic assembly are all retained within said retaining slots and guide channels formed within said case. 3. The circuit breaker of claim 2 including a plastic molded cover having a plurality of retaining slots and guide channels formed therein for cooperating with said case retaining slots and guide channels to hold said trip unit and terminal assembly and said cradle and magnetic assembly within said case. 4. The circuit breaker of claim 1 wherein said case includes a raised cradle retaining pivot for receiving said cradle circular member and pivotally supporting said cradle within said case. 5. The circuit breaker of claim 1 wherein said mechanism spring comprises a body member and a pair of closed loop eyes, one at either end of said body for encompassing and engaging a spring tab on said top of said cradle and a spring tab intermediate top and bottom edges of said contact blade. 6. The circuit breaker of claim 1 further including a polished steel insert at a bottom of said armature latch opening to slidingly engage said cradle latch portion and to allow frictionless movement of said cradle latch portion out of said latch opening. 7. The circuit breaker of claim 1 wherein said armature bottom piece includes a shelf portion for cooperating with said magnetic core hook extension to securely hold said magnetic core and armature in close magnetic relation. 8. The circuit breaker of claim 1 wherein said armature top piece further includes a pair of tabs for abutting and being supported by a sidewall formed within said case, said sidewall separating a calibration slot from a latch spring slot also formed within said case. 9. The circuit breaker of claim 8 wherein said armature top piece further includes a latch spring boss formed on said armature top piece for positioning and supporting a latch spring when said latch spring is inserted within said latch spring slot. 10. The circuit breaker of claim 1 including an arc chute positioned within an arc chute recess formed within said case proximate said fixed contact. 11. The circuit breaker of claim 1 wherein said braided conductor joins said contact blade between a pair of upright tabs on said contact blade for constraining said braid from flexing during movement of said contact blade. 12. The circuit breaker of claim 1 wherein said magnet core hook extension is intermediate said magnet core top angled piece and a bottom of said magnet core bottom angled piece to mechanically couple said bi-metal and said armature to minimize force opposed to motion of said armature upon magnetic tripping of the breaker. 13. The trip unit of claim 2 wherein said trip unit further includes an angled connector between said bi-metal and said terminal assembly located within one of said retaining slots, said one retaining slot containing a pair of bosses on one side and an abutment on an opposite side to lockingly hold said trip unit to said case. 14. The trip unit of claim 1 wherein said handle includes a pair of first and second flat surfaces each containing colored indicia whereby said first surface exposes a first color when said handle is in an ON position and said second surface exposes a second color when said handle is in an OFF position. 