A combination toy hand gun and robot assembly is provided with accessories to provide multiple play options to a child. The toy gun has a handle member, cylinder member, gun barrel member and a trigger assembly. Each of these elements can be relatively movable to change from the simulation of a toy hand gun into a second position of a humanoid robot. The individual component parts of the toy hand gun are permanently but movably connected together to permit the reconfiguration. The accessory silencer, stock and scope assemblies can be attached to the toy hand gun or can be connected to form other toy configurations independent of the toy gun. To accommodate the toy gun configuration, a pellet projection mechanism can be operatively included.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A combination toy gun and robotic-humanoid assembly that can be reconfigured from a gun configuration to a robot configuration at the option of the user comprising: a handle member; a cylinder assembly; a gun barrel member attached to the cylinder assembly; a trigger assembly positioned adjacent the handle member and beneath the cylinder assembly, the handle member, cylinder assembly, gun barrel member and trigger assembly being connected together for simulating the configuration of a gun in a first position, and a robot head member movably connected to the trigger assembly, the handle member being configured to simulate the robotic legs of a humanoid robot when moved to a second position, a portion of the cylinder assembly being movable relative to the handle member and configured to simulate the robotic arms of a humanoid robot when moved to a second position, with the robotic head positioned adjacent the robotic arms and above the robotic legs wherein a toy robotic humanoid assembly can be provided in the second position by reconfiguration of the toy gun configuration. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein the handle member is bifurcated into a pair of leg members. 3. The invention of claim 2 wherein each leg member includes a foot member at its lower surface that can be extended or retracted. 4. The invention of claim 3 wherein each leg member includes an upper and lower leg portion that is relatively slidable to enable a compact handle configuration or an extended robot leg configuration. 5. The invention of claim 4 wherein the upper leg portions are pivotally mounted adjacent the trigger assembly to permit rotation of the leg members. 6. The invention of claim 1 wherein the gun barrel member in pivotally connected to the cylinder assembly. 7. The invention of claim 1 wherein the robotic head is mounted adjacent the cylinder member. 8. The invention of claim 1 wherein the handle member, gun barrel member, cylinder member, and trigger assembly are configured to simulate the physical configuration of a Walther P-38 caliber pistol in the first position. 9. A combination toy hand gun and robotic-humanoid assembly that can be reconfigured from one configuration to another configuration and combined with accessory parts to provide various play configurations for a child, comprising: a handle member; a cylinder assembly positioned above the handle member; a gun barrel member attached to the cylinder assembly; a trigger assembly positioned adjacent the handle member and beneath the cylinder assembly, the handle member, cylinder assembly, gun barrel member and trigger assembly being pivotally and permanently connected together to permit relative movement so that a configuration simulating a gun is provided in a first position but other configurations are possible, and a robotic head member is movably connected to the trigger assembly, the handle member further is divided into a right and left grip member that can be moved apart from each other and extended away from the trigger assembly to simulate a pair of robotic legs of a humanoid configuration, a portion of the cylinder assembly can be reconfigured by movement to simulate the robotic arms of a humanoid robot whereby the elements forming the physical configuration of a toy gun in a first position can be moved to a second position with the robotic head, arms and legs juxtapositioned relative to the other elements of the toy gun to provide a simulated robotic humanoid assembly. 10. The invention of claim 9 wherein the robotic head member is pivotally connected to the trigger assembly. 11. The invention of claim 10 wherein the robotic head member provides a simulated humanoid face configuration on one side and a curvilinear configuration on the other side to complement the upper portion of the handle member in a gun congiguration. 12. The invention of claim 10 wherein a rear portion of the cylinder assembly is bifurcated into separate cylinder parts and pivotally mounted to extend away from each other to form simulated arm appendages in the second position as a humanoid robot. 13. The invention of claim 12 wherein a simulated humanoid hand is slidably connected to each of the bifurcated parts and can be extended in the second position as a humanoid robot. 14. The invention of claim 13 wherein each of the grip members includes a foot support member movably connected to the lower surface of the grip member so that it can be extendable in a second position as a humanoid robot. 15. The invention of claim 1 wherein a front portion of the cylinder assembly is rotatably connected to the trigger assembly and can be rotated to simulate the upper trunk of a humanoid robot in a second position. 16. The invention of claim 15 wherein the handle member, gun barrel member, cylinder member and trigger assembly are configured to simulate the physical configuration of a Walther P-38 caliber pistol in the first position. 17. The invention of claim 9 further including a simulated silencer assembly, a simulated stock assembly to provide support against a user's shoulder and a simulated scope assembly, each of which can be removably mounted to the toy hand gun configuration. 18. The invention of claim 17 wherein the silencer, stock and scope assemblies have connectors that can be interconnected to form a simulated toy anti-aircraft gun separate from the toy hand gun. 19. A combination toy hand gun and robotic-humanoid assembly that can be reconfigured from one configuration to another configuration and combined with accessory parts to provide various play configurations for a child, comprising: a handle member; a cylinder assembly positioned above the handle member; a gun barrel member attached to the cylinder assembly; a trigger assembly positioned adjacent the handle member and beneath the cylinder assembly, the handle member, cylinder assembly, gun barrel member and trigger assembly being pivotally and permanently connected together to permit relative movement so that a configuration simulating a gun is provided in a first position but other configurations are possible, and a robotic head member is movably connected to the trigger assembly, the cylinder assembly has a front and rear portion, the front portion is rotatably connected to the trigger assembly and can simulate an upper trunk of a humanoid robot while the rear portion is bifurcated into two separate parts to simulate arm appendages; the handle member further is divided into a right and left grip member that can be moved apart from each other and extended away from the trigger assembly to simulate a pair of robotic legs of a humanoid configuration, whereby the elements forming the physical configuration of a toy gun in a first position can be moved to a second position with the robotic head, trunk, arms and legs juxtapositioned relative to the other elements of the toy gun to provide a simulated robotic humanoid assembly. 20. The invention of claim 19 further including a simulated silencer assembly, a simulated stock assembly to provide support against a user's shoulder and a simulated scope assembly, each of which can be removably mounted to the toy hand gun configuration, the silencer, stock and scope assemblies have respective connectors that can be interconnected to form a simulated toy anti-aircraft gun separate from the toy hand gun. 