In a first exemplary embodiment of the present invention, an automated, computerized method is provided for processing an image. According to a feature of the present invention, the method comprises the steps of identifying token regions in the image, each token region comprising a connected image region of similar color and intensity, and utilizing the identified token regions to generate single material token regions for use in processing material and illumination aspects of the image.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: identifying token regions in the image, each identified token region comprising a connected image region of similar color and intensity relative to a single, robust color measurement, wherein the identified token regions vary as a function of illumination; and utilizing the identified token regions to generate single material token regions, each one of the single material token regions corresponding to preselected ones of identified token regions utilized to generate the respective one of the single material token regions such that the single material token regions depict single material regions of the image independent of the function of illumination that vary the corresponding identified token regions, for use in processing material and illumination aspects of the image. 2. The method of claim 1 comprising the further step of modifying the image to filter out effects caused by a textured image. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of utilizing the identified token regions to generate single material token regions for use in processing material and illumination aspects of the image is carried out by analyzing pixel characteristics of each identified token region. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of analyzing pixel characteristics of each identified token region is carried out by performing a preselected set of techniques selected from the group consisting of arbitrary boundary removal, adjacent planar token merging and local token analysis. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of analyzing pixel characteristics of each identified token region is carried out by performing a neck test. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of analyzing pixel characteristics of each identified token region is carried out by performing an arbitrary boundary removal technique. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the step of performing an arbitrary boundary removal technique is carried out by identifying a set of seed locations within an identified token region comprising a connected image region of similar color and intensity, and growing a set of token regions corresponding to the set of seed locations. 8. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of analyzing pixel characteristics of each identified token region is carried out by performing an adjacent planar token merging technique. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the step of performing an adjacent planar token merging technique is carried out by fitting a planar representation of color information for a pair of neighboring identified token regions, and comparing individual pixel color information from each token of the pair to the planar representation. 10. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of analyzing pixel characteristics of each identified token region is carried out by performing a local token analysis technique. 11. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: identifying token regions in the image, each token region comprising a connected image region of similar color and intensity; and utilizing the identified token regions to generate single material token regions for use in processing material and illumination aspects of the image by performing a local token analysis technique and wherein the step of performing a local token analysis technique is carried out by identifying, at each of a set of preselected window scan positions, a token region comprising a connected image region of similar color and intensity, as a function of a spatial planar fit representation and spectral RGB line representation corresponding to the respective window scan position, and determining a similarity of parameters of the spatial planer fit representation and spectral RGB line representation of tokens identified as a function of the planar fit representation and RGB line representations, for adjacent and contiguous window scan positions. 12. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: identifying spatio-spectral information for the image as a function of single, robust color measurements to define Type C token regions of the image, wherein the Type C tokens regions vary as a function of illumination; and utilizing the Type C token regions defined by the spatio-spectral information to identify single material Type B token regions, each one of the Type B token regions corresponding to preselected Type C token regions utilized to identify the respective one of the Type B token regions such that the Type B token regions depict single material regions of the image independent of the function of illumination that vary the corresponding Type C token regions, for use in processing material and illumination aspects of the image. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the spatio-spectral information includes color information relevant to contiguous pixels of the image. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the color information relevant to contiguous pixels of the image includes spectral relationships among contiguous pixels, and spacial extent of the pixel spectral characteristics relevant to a single material. 15. A computer system which comprises: a CPU; and a memory storing an image file; the CPU arranged and configured to execute a routine to identify token regions in an image depicted in the image file, each identified token region comprising a connected image region of similar color and intensity relative to a single, robust color measurement, wherein the identified token regions vary as a function of illumination and to utilize the identified token regions to generate single material token regions, each one of the single material token regions corresponding to preselected ones of identified token regions utilized to generate the respective one of the single material token regions such that the single material token regions depict single material regions of the image independent of the function of illumination that vary the corresponding identified token regions, for use in processing material and illumination aspects of the image. 16. A computer system which comprises: a CPU; and a memory storing an image file; the CPU arranged and configured to execute a routine to identify spatio-spectral information for an image depicted in the image file as a function of single, robust color measurements to define Type C token regions of the image, wherein the Type C tokens regions vary as a function of illumination and to utilize the Type C token regions defined by the spatio-spectral information to identify single material Type B token regions, each one of the Type B token regions corresponding to preselected Type C token regions utilized to identify the respective one of the Type B token regions such that the Type B token regions depict single material regions of the image independent of the function of illumination that vary the corresponding Type C token regions, for use in processing material and illumination aspects of the image. 17. A computer program product, disposed on a non-transitory computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: provide an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory, identify token regions in the image, each identified token region comprising a connected image region of similar color and intensity relative to a single, robust color measurement, wherein the identified token regions vary as a function of illumination and utilize the identified token regions to generate single material token regions, each one of the single material token regions corresponding to preselected ones of identified token regions utilized to generate the respective one of the single material token regions such that the single material token regions depict single material regions of the image independent of the function of illumination that vary the corresponding identified token regions, for use in processing material and illumination aspects of the image. 18. A computer program product, disposed on a non-transitory computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: provide an image file depicting an image, in a computer memory, identify spatio-spectral information for the image as a function of single, robust color measurements to define Type C token regions of the image, wherein the Type C tokens regions vary as a function of illumination and utilize the Type C token regions defined by the spatio-spectral information to identify single material Type B token regions, each one of the Type B token regions corresponding to preselected Type C token regions utilized to identify the respective one of the Type B token regions such that the Type B token regions depict single material regions of the image independent of the function of illumination that vary the corresponding Type C token regions, for use in processing material and illumination aspects of the image. 