Objects contacted by mechanical fingers cause shunts that are touched at a position to contact resistance strips. Sensing resistance remaining between the shunt contact and one end of the resistance strip indicates position of contact along the finger. Shapes and alignments of objects are sensed by comparing positional information along several fingers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sensing apparatus comprising at least one elongated member extending from a base member, touch positional sensing means disposed along at least a substantial part of said elongated member, said sensing means comprising an elongated resistance element disposed along said elongated member and elongated shunting means disposed in a generally side-by-side relation with said resistance element with a gap therebetween, a source of electrical potential connected at least one end of said resistance element, and resistance sensing means connected to one end of said resistance element and to said shunting means for sensing the resistance of the resistance element between a given reference point or points on said resistance element and a point or points of contact between said resistance element and said shunting means along said position sensing means, whereby the relative position of said point or points of contact along said position sensing means can be determined. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said elongated member is shaped generally as a finger. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising an elongated insulator connected to each finger, the resistance element being mounted on the insulator and the resilient means comprising parallel elastomeric pads positioned beside the insulator and extending outward from the finger beyond the insulator and wherein the shunt means comprises a conductive strip connected to the elastomeric pads outward from the insulator and spaced from the resistance element and moveable into contact with a portion of the resistance element by compression of a portion of the elastomeric pads by pressure placed upon the conductor strip. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the resistance element extends back and forth transversely across the supporting finger as it extends outward along the finger, with a series of substantially long transversely extending resistance portions interconnected at opposite ends thereof by relatively short longitudinally extending resistance portions, whereby as the shunt means contacts successive relatively long longitudinally extending portions of the resistance element the sensing means senses stepped changes in potential, thus digitizing the signal of the sensor means. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the longitudinally extending portions of the resistance element become successively shorter as the resistance element proceeds from one end of the supporting finger to a second end of the supporting finger. 6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein each finger is tapered with a relatively large first end connected to a palm and a relatively small second end spaced from a palm. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the transversely extending portions of the resistance element are substantially equal in length along the entire surface of the finger. 8. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein one end of the shunt means is electrically connected to one end of the resistance means and wherein the sensing means is electrically connected to the other end of the resistance means and to the shunt means. 9. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the sensing means is connected to one end of the shunt means and to one end of the resistance element. 10. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the resilient means comprises an elongated elastomeric strip having a central portion for holding the resistance element and having upward extended lateral portions for holding the shunt means. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the elastomeric strip further comprises a base portion and column portions extending upward on opposite sides of the resistance element for supporting the shunt means spaced from the resistance element until the shunt means encounters an obstacle. 12. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the elastomeric strip comprises block-like lateral portions surrounding a block-like central portion, wherein the resistance element is placed on the block-like central portion and wherein the shunt means comprises a conductor planar element supported on the block-like outer portions of the elastomeric strip. 13. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the resistance element is grounded at opposite ends at where the source of potential is applied to one end of the shunt means and whereby the sensing means senses drop in potential according to position of grounding of the shunt means on the resistance element. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising second shunt means substantially parallel to the first shunt means, the second shunt means having potential applied upon to one end thereof which is possible to the end of the first shunt means on which potential is applied. 15. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the resistance element comprises a first resistance element having a potential applied at one end thereof and further comprising a second resistance element whereby the sensing means senses positional contact of the shunt means from opposite ends of the supporting finger. 16. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the resistance element comprises a resistance strip longitudinally extended along the supporting finger, wherein the resilient means comprises first and second parallel elastomeric strips extending along opposite lateral edges of the resistance strip and wherein the shunt means comprises a flexible metal strip positioned on the elastomeric strips. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the flexible metal shunt strip comprises a comb-like strip, continuous along one lateral edge and discontinuous along the opposite lateral edge. 18. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the resilient means is mounted above and below the resistance element and/or the shunt means comprises upper shunt means connected to the resilient means and lower shunt means connected to the resilient means on opposite sides of the resistance element whereby the sensing means senses positional contact of either shunt means or the resistance element on either side of the resistance element. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the resistance element comprises a relatively rigid conductor and wherein the resilient means comprises a domed resilient strip connected to the rigid conductor and wherein the shunt means is mounted inside the domed resilient strip. 20. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a palm connected to the base member and a grid of touch sensors, on the palm, whereby the grid on the palm is an area touch sensor. 21. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the finger is totally elastic whereby the finger bends along its surface and further comprising a pressure actuator means for operating the finger in a tenticular manner. 22. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensing means is placed in an array defining a tactile area to be used as touch surface for determining position and alignment of an object or objects brought into contact with it. 23. Touch position sensing finger apparatus comprising a palm mounted for movement, a finger mounted on the palm for movement with respect to the palm and touch positional sensing means mounted on at least one side of the finger for sensing position along the finger at which a relatively stationary object is encountered and touched by the finger, the sensing means comprising a resistance element extending along the finger and a shunt means extending along the finger parallel to the resistance element and resilient means extending along the finger and spacing the shunt means and the resistance element until a relatively stationary object is encountered and touched and further comprising potential means connected to one of the resistance element and shunt means and potential sensing means connected to one of the resistance element and shunt means for sensing potential drop associated within a portion of the resistance element remaining unshunted after contact of the resistance element and the shunting means. 