An end-effector assembly provides lateral compliance for a cutting tool while counter-sinking a bore in a workpiece. The assembly has a first subassembly which is connected to a gantry. A second subassembly may extend or retract relative to the first, such movement being driven by hydraulic or air cylinders. A third subassembly carries the cutting tool and motor for driving the same. This latter subassembly is connected to the second subassembly by a plurality of compliant members which cause the third subassembly to extend and retract correspondingly with the second, but which permit the third subassembly to shift laterally relative to the second. In this situation, the motor and cutting tool also shift laterally along with the third subassembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end-effector assembly for use in positioning a drive motor and cutting tool relative to a workpiece, so that said cutting tool may be used to countersink a predrilled bore in said workpiece, comprising: a first cage subassembly mounted to a supporting structure; a second cage subassembly normally positioned below said first cage subassembly; first cylinder means operable for linearly extending and retracting said second cage subassembly in an axial direction relative to said first cage subassembly; a third cage subassembly at least partially surrounding said second cage subassembly and having a generally horizontally mounting plate to which said drive motor and cutting tool are mounted, said plate being positioned below said second cage subassembly; and a plurality of compliant members interconnecting said third cage subassembly and said second cage subassembly, wherein each of said compliant members includes a plurality of washers juxtapositionally stacked in substantially the same direction as said axial direction, said washers being connected together in a manner so that said plurality of washers interconnects said second and third cage subassemblies, to cause said third cage subassembly to extend and retract correspondingly with said second cage subassembly in response to operation of said first cylinder means, and further, said plurality of washers being connected together in a manner so that said washers may shift laterally with respect to each other, to permit said third cage subassembly to shift laterally relative to said second cage subassembly. 2. The end-effector assembly in accordance with claim 1, including second cylinder means, carried exclusively by said third cage subassembly, and operable for extending and retracting said motor and said cutting tool relative to said third cage subassembly independently of operation of said first cylinder means. 3. The end-effector assembly of claim 1, including cutting tool guide means, connected to said third cage subassembly, and extending downwardly below said third cage subassembly, for guiding said cutting tool carried by said third cage subassembly to said predrilled bore. 4. The end-effector assembly of claim 1, wherein said second cage subassembly also includes a generally horizontally oriented plate spaced in parallel relationship above said horizontal mounting plate, said plates being interconnected by said complaint members. 5. The end-effector assembly of claim 4, wherein four compliant members interconnect said horizontal plates. 6. The end-effector assembly of claim 1, wherein four compliant members interconnect said third subassembly and said second subassembly. 