An indicating lamp unit or the like is mounted on a wall of a motor vehicle body through mounting pins carried by the lighting unit and carrying retaining means which fit in holes formed in the body wall. Each mounting hole in the body wall is of banjo shape, having a first part through which the retaining means can freely pass and a narrower second part which hold the retaining means securely when the lighting unit is moved sideways. Each of the said retaining means comprises a retaining ring having a peripheral groove defining a middle zone bounded by a pair of generally transverse flanks, which engage on either side of the narrow second part of the mounting hole so as to retain the retaining ring to the wall against movement in either longitudinal direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An arrangement comprising a support and a unit of equipment removably mounted on the support, the support defining a support wall and the arrangement further including fastening means for removably securing the said unit to the support wall, the said fastening means comprising at least one combination of elements wherein each said combination includes a mounting hole formed through the support wall, a mounting pin carried by the said unit for extending removably through the said mounting hole, and retaining means adapted to engage on the mounting pin and to bear against the support wall so as to secure the mounting pin and therefore the said unit to the support wall, and wherein, in the or each said fastening means: (a) the mounting hole comprises a first part having transverse dimensions such as to enable the said retaining means to pass freely through it, and a second part laterally extending the said first part, the dimensions of the second part being smaller than those of the said retaining means whereby to retain the latter in the said second part of the hole; (b) the retaining means comprise a retaining ring having a peripheral groove defining a pair of generally transverse flanks and a middle zone separating the said flanks, the transverse dimension of the said flanks being inferior to those of the said second hole part and the longitudinal extent of the said groove being at least equal to that of the corresponding thickness of the support wall, and wherein the said retaining means further comprises a locking means carried by the retaining ring and releasably engaging the said mounting pin, whereby the said generally transverse flanks are adapted to engage on either side of the support wall so as to retain the retaining ring in both longitudinal directions. 2. An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the said pair of flanks includes a portion which is inclined with respect to the said middle zone and which extends outwardly from the latter so as to define a flared portion of the said groove. 3. An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein at least one said fastening means further includes a lateral abutment element which is fixed in the said unit for cooperating with the support and with the contour of the said first part of the corresponding mounting hole. 4. An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the said locking means are of a uni-directional type enabling the mounting pin to be displaced in the direction of fitting of the said unit to the support but preventing its displacement in the opposite direction. 5. An arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the retaining means further includes unlocking means comprising cooperating elements of the retaining ring and the locking means. 6. An arrangement according to claim 5, wherein the retaining ring has parallel slots formed in it and defining a sliding plane, the releasable locking means comprising the said slots and a locking key mounted slidingly in the said slots along the said sliding plane, the locking key having at least two opposed lugs spaced away from the said slots in the retaining ring and projecting inwardly from the periphery of the key to define between them a space narrower than the outer diameter of the mounting pin, the said lugs being inclined to the sliding plane. 7. An arrangement according to claim 3, further including resilient means interposed between the said unit and the support, wherein the said resilient means comprise a resilient seal defining a continuous perimeter, which itself defines an envelope within which the said mounting pins and lateral abutment elements lie. 8. An arrangement according to claim 7, wherein the length of the mounting pin, the height of the lateral abutment element and the thickness of the resilient seal are such that, firstly, the mounting pin is longer than the lateral abutment, and secondly the lateral abutment element extends slightly beyond the resilient seal even when the latter is uncompressed. 9. A method of automatically fitting a unit of equipment to a support, the said unit and support together constituting an arrangement according to claim 7 or claim 8, the method comprising the following steps in succession: (a) the said unit is presented in front of the location in which it is to be fitted on the said support wall, with the or each retaining ring aligned with the said first part of a corresponding said mounting hole in the wall; (b) the unit is offered up to the wall by longitudinal movement, until the or each retaining ring penetrates into the corresponding said first hole part, and until a free end of at least one said lateral abutment element of the said unit comes into engagement against the support wall; (c) the said unit is displaced laterally in a plane perpendicular to the direction of the said longitudinal movement, so that the or each retaining ring engages in the said second part of the associated mounting hole with the support wall, the wall being received in the said peripheral groove or grooves of the retaining ring or rings; and (d) a longitudinal force is supplied to the said unit, so as to compress the said resilient means by a predetermined amount, whereby to immobilise the or each retaining means on the support wall and to displace the or each mounting pin within the corresponding retaining ring. 