A method for planning the placement of a device in a body includes analyzing information of at least part of the internal structure of the body of a patient to determine if at least one specific or critical region or structure lies within a region of interest, said region of interest within a predetermined distance of the planned trajectory of the device in the body. Then, a level of risk is assessed to the at least one specific or critical region or structure that is within the region of interest.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for planning the placement of a device in a body of a patient, comprising: analyzing information of at least part of an internal structure of the body of the patient to determine if at least one specific or critical region or structure lies within a region of interest, said region of interest within a predetermined distance of a planned trajectory of the device in the body; using a processor to assess a level of risk to the at least one specific or critical region or structure that is within the region of interest, wherein levels of risk are determined based on risk due to at least one of patient-specific diffusion and perfusion properties or physiological characteristics of the specific region or structure of the body, and wherein the levels of risk are determined based on at least one of: a) risk due to anatomical, functional and/or physiological characteristics of the specific region or structure of the body, including i) risk of harming the body including the risk of crossing the trajectory of the device in the body with an optical nerve, and/or ii) risk of unsuccessful treatment including the risk of crossing the trajectory of the device in the body through a Sulcus in drug delivery; b) risk due to a predefined treatment plan, said risk due to the predefined treatment plan including a proximity of a treatment approach or trajectory to a risk structure, the proximity of two or more different treatment approaches or trajectories to each other, and/or weighting the risk of the predefined treatment approach; or c) risk due to a predefined setup or configuration of a surgical navigation system; and displaying borders along or around the specific or critical region or structure, wherein when planning the trajectory to cross at least one border, a warning signal is output or the trajectory is prevented from crossing the border. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein analyzing information includes automatically detecting the information of the at least part of the internal structure of the body, wherein said information includes at least one of anatomical, functional, angiographical and/or physiological structures of the body. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein automatically detecting includes automatically detecting structures that are manually outlined. 4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the anatomical structures are obtained using at least one of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), X-Ray Imaging, Computer Tomography (CT) Imaging, or Ultra Sound Imaging, the physiological structures are determined using at least one of MR-DTI, MR-DCE, perfusion imaging from MR or CT, PET, SPECT, or MEG, and the functional structures are determined using at least one of fMRI, PET, brain-mapping, or EEG. 5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising automatically displaying, classifying and/or assessing in terms of levels of risk, spatial location, potential adverse effect and/or proximity to the trajectory, the specific or critical region or structure in the region of interest. 6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising defining the region of interest around the trajectory based on a user entry, or automatically or semi-automatically defining the region of interest based on patient information. 7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising identifying in the information of at least a part of the internal structure of the body the specific or critical region or structure, and segmenting the specific or critical region or structure from the information of the internal structure of the body. 8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising registering the segmented specific or critical region or structure with an image of the part of the internal structure of the body and overlaying segmented specific or critical region or structure with the image. 9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising using at least one of MRI diffusion scans, MRI-contrast enhanced scans, DTI, MRI dynamic contrast enhanced scans, CT perfusion scans, MRI T1w scans, MRI T2w scans, MRI proton density scans, MRI spectroscopy scans, PET scans, SPECT scans, molecular imaging, CT, X-ray, ultrasound, elastography, time series imaging, biopsies and/or tissue analysis to obtain the specific or critical region or structure. 10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising displaying the specific or critical region or structure together with the planned trajectory on the image of the internal structure of the body. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein weighting the risk of the predefined treatment approach includes weighting the risk of a catheter plan or trajectory that is at least a predetermined distance away from a sulcus. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the risk due to a predefined setup or configuration of the surgical navigation system includes the risk associated with using an unmounted holding device, the risk associated with using a flexible infusion or holding device, the risk associated with the holding device being fixed or mounted greater than a predetermined distance from an entry point of the catheter, and/or the risk associated with an inexperienced surgeon. 13. The method according to claim 1, further comprising separately displaying levels of risk and/or displaying the levels of risk in the specific or critical region or structure. 14. The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining trajectories that do or do not cross regions of a predetermined level of risk. 15. The method according to claim 1, further comprising providing haptic feedback to a guiding device, whereby the haptic feedback is based upon a proximity between a surgical tool moving in a known relationship to the patient and regions of risk. 16. The method according to claim 1, further comprising providing a warning about a potential adverse effect of the planned placement of the device. 17. The method according to claim 1, further comprising providing quantitative information regarding the proximity of the specific or critical region or structure with respect to one or more trajectories. 18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the warning is an audible warning or a visual warning. 19. The method according to claim 1, further comprising using the planned trajectory for at least one of stereotactic biopsies, catheter placement, cannula placement, stimulator placement, shunt placement, or surgical implant placement. 20. The method according to claim 1, further comprising delivering electric energy to a region or structure based on a proximity of the delivery device to the specific or critical region or structure. 21. The method according to claim 1, further comprising delivering a therapeutic agent to a region or structure based on the information of flow patterns into nearby specific or critical regions or structures. 22. A method for planning the placement of a catheter in a body of a patient, said catheter having a specific rigidity chosen from various types of catheters stored in a database, comprising: analyzing information of at least part of the internal structure of the body of the patient to determine if at least one specific or critical region or structure lies within a region of interest, said region of interest within a predetermined distance of a planned trajectory of the catheter in the body; using a processor to assess a level of risk to the at least one specific or critical region or structure that is within the region of interest, wherein the level of risk and the rigidity of the catheter are determined based on risk due to patient-specific tissue density of a specific region or structure of the body and wherein the levels of risk are determined based on at least one of: a) risk due to anatomical, functional and/or physiological characteristics of the specific region or structure of the body, including i) risk of harming the body including the risk of crossing the trajectory of the device in the body with an optical nerve, and/or ii) risk of unsuccessful treatment including the risk of crossing the trajectory of the device in the body through a Sulcus in drug delivery; b) risk due to a predefined treatment plan, said risk due to the predefined treatment plan including a proximity of a treatment approach or trajectory to a risk structure, the proximity of two or more different treatment approaches or trajectories to each other, and/or weighting the risk of the predefined treatment approach; or c) risk due to a predefined setup or configuration of a surgical navigation system; and displaying borders along or around the specific or critical region or structure, wherein when planning the trajectory to cross at least one border, a warning signal is output or the trajectory is prevented from crossing the border. 