A retrofittable lifting apparatus for use on an articulated robotically controlled device is disclosed. The lifting apparatus includes a structure for mating the apparatus to the robotic device and a mechanism for the remotely controlled lifting of an ordnance or other object. Actuation of the lifting mechanism may be provided by existing sources of motion on the robotic device, or by additional sources of motion attached to the robotic device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic vehicle comprising: a main chassis having two sides, a front end, and a differential drive system for maneuvering the robotic vehicle over a surface; a forward section comprising: at least one stair climbing arm having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end of the stair climbing arm being pivotally coupled to the main chassis near the front end of the main chassis about a transverse axis defined generally perpendicular to the sides of the main chassis, the stair climbing arm having a length less than a length of the sides of the main chassis, wherein the stair climbing arm articulates between positions to lift the front end of the vehicle to assist the robotic vehicle in climbing stairs and positions to traverse the front end of the vehicle over obstacles while moving about in a variety of environments; a lifting apparatus comprising: at least two pivoting members pivotably coupled to the main chassis; and at least one linkage arm pivotably connected to at least one of the pivoting members and to the at least one stair climbing arm; and an arm drive system disposed on the main chassis and coupled to the at least one stair climbing arm, the arm drive system pivoting the lifting apparatus relative to the main chassis by pivoting the stair climbing arm relative to the main chassis and the pivotally connected at least one linkage arm. 2. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the at least two pivoting members comprise at least one lifting tine. 3. A method for lifting an object using a robotic vehicle having a main chassis and at least one stair climbing arm adapted to pivot about a transverse axis generally perpendicular to a side of the main chassis, wherein the stair climbing arm articulates between positions to lift the front end of the vehicle to assist the robotic vehicle in climbing stairs and positions to traverse the front end of the vehicle over obstacles while moving about in a variety of environments, the method comprising: providing a lifting apparatus for the robotic vehicle, the lifting apparatus comprising: at least one pivoting member pivotably coupled to the main chassis; at least one lifting tine disposed on the at least one pivoting member; and at least one linkage arm pivotably connecting the pivoting member to the at least one stair climbing arm; pivoting the stair climbing arm about the transverse axis in a first direction to pivot the pivoting member such that a distal portion of the at least one lifting tine extends below a lower portion of the object; moving the robotic vehicle toward the object so as to position the at least one lifting tine beneath the object; and pivoting the stair climbing arm about the transverse axis in an opposite direction to the first direction to pivot the pivoting member, connected by the at least one linkage arm, such that the at least one lifting tine lifts the object. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising providing a robotic manipulator arm coupled to the main chassis. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising positioning the robotic manipulator arm against a surface of the object to assist the lifting apparatus in lifting and supporting the object. 6. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, further comprising a manipulator arm pivotably coupled to the main chassis and having a plurality of connected sections. 7. The robotic vehicle of claim 6, wherein the manipulator arm comprises a camera mounted thereon. 8. The robotic vehicle of claim 6, wherein the manipulator arm comprises an appendage connected thereto. 9. The robotic vehicle of claim 8, wherein the appendage comprises at least one of a hook, a knife, a gripping mechanism, a probe, and a sensor. 10. The robotic vehicle of claim 6, wherein the manipulator arm is adapted to extend beyond a distal end of the main chassis. 11. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the main chassis comprises a pair of parallel main tracks, each including a flexible continuous belt, coupled to a corresponding side of the main frame. 12. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, further comprising a digging attachment pivotably coupled to the at least two pivoting members and adapted to pivot in response to a pivoted articulation of the at least one stair climbing arm. 13. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the stair climbing arm tapers from the proximal end to the distal end, and wherein a forward track is trained about the stair climbing arm. 14. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the stair climbing arm has a length sufficiently long to allow the distal end to extend below the main chassis in one or more degrees of rotation of the stair climbing arm. 15. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein each pivoting member has a pivoting member length configured relative to a length between the transverse axis and a point where the linkage arm is pivotably connected to the stair climbing arm so that, when the stair climbing arm provides motion to the pivoting members, a torque produced by the pivoting members is greater than a torque produced by the stair climbing arm. 16. The robotic vehicle of claim 15, wherein the ratio between the torque produced by the pivoting members and the torque produced by the stair climbing arm is 2.25:1. 17. The robotic vehicle of claim 15, wherein the ratio between the torque produced by the pivoting members and the torque produced by the stair climbing arm is greater than 2.5:1. 18. The robotic vehicle of claim 16, wherein the pivoting member length is 9 inches and the length between the transverse axis and the point where the linkage arm is pivotably connected to the stair climbing arm is 4 inches. 19. The method of claim 3, wherein a weight of the object exceeds a weight of the vehicle. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein, after moving the vehicle toward the object, a center of gravity of the vehicle is located a first distance away from a closest point where the main chassis is in contact with the ground next to the object, and wherein the first distance is at least twice a second distance from the closest point where the main chassis is in contact with the ground next to the object to a center of gravity of the object. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the weight of the object is approximately twice the weight of the vehicle. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the object is an artillery shell weighing approximately 70 to 100 lb. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the artillery shell weighs 96 lb and the robotic vehicle weighs 48 lb. 24. A robotic vehicle comprising: a main chassis having left and right sides, a front end, and a differential drive system for maneuvering the robotic vehicle over a surface; a forward section comprising at least one stair climbing arm having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end of the stair climbing arm being pivotally coupled to the main chassis near the front end of the main chassis about a transverse axis defined generally perpendicular to the sides of the main chassis; and a lifting apparatus comprising: a left pivoting member pivotably coupled to the left side of the main chassis and a right pivoting member pivotably coupled to the right side of the main chassis; and a support arm connecting the left and right pivoting members by extending in a direction from one side of the main chassis to the other side of the main chassis, wherein the support arm includes a plurality of mounting holes and a plurality of attachments attached to the support arm by the mounting holes. 25. The robotic vehicle of claim 24, wherein the attachments are lifting tines. 26. The robotic vehicle of claim 24, wherein the attachments are releasably attached to the support arm by pin connectors that connect to the mounting holes. 27. The robotic vehicle of claim 24, wherein the mounting holes are placed at one inch intervals along the length of the support arm. 28. The robotic vehicle of claim 24, wherein the mounting holes are placed at 45 degree intervals around the support arm. 29. A robotic vehicle comprising: a main chassis having two sides, a front end, and a differential drive system for maneuvering the robotic vehicle over a surface; a forward section comprising at least one stair climbing arm having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end of the stair climbing arm being pivotally coupled to the main chassis near the front end of the main chassis about a transverse axis defined generally perpendicular to the sides of the main chassis; and a lifting apparatus comprising: at least two pivoting members pivotably coupled to the main chassis; and a support arm connecting the two pivoting members, wherein the support arm includes a plurality of mounting holes and a plurality of attachments attached to the support arm by the mounting holes; wherein the attachments are lifting tines. 30. A robotic vehicle comprising: a main chassis having two sides, a front end, and a differential drive system for maneuvering the robotic vehicle over a surface; a forward section comprising at least one stair climbing arm having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end of the stair climbing arm being pivotally coupled to the main chassis near the front end of the main chassis about a transverse axis defined generally perpendicular to the sides of the main chassis; and a lifting apparatus comprising: at least two pivoting members pivotably coupled to the main chassis; and a support arm connecting the two pivoting members, wherein the support arm includes a plurality of mounting holes and a plurality of attachments attached to the support arm by the mounting holes; wherein the attachments are releasably attached to the support arm by pin connectors that connect to the mounting holes. 