A method for self-recalibration of a structured light vision system including a camera and a projector. A camera plane and a projector plane are defined, a Homography matrix between the camera plane and the projector plane is computed, and a translation vector and a rotation matrix are determined from Homography-based constraints. A computer vision system implementing the method is also described.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for self-recalibration of a structured light vision system comprising a camera and a projector, the method comprising: defining a camera plane and a projector plane; computing a Homography matrix between the camera plane and the projector plane; determining a translation vector and a rotation matrix from Homography-based constraints; wherein prior to determining the translation vector, if intrinsic parameters of the camera are known, a scale factor and its sign are determined; and wherein the scale factor .lamda. is determined from an equation: .lamda..sup.2[t].sub.x HH.sup.T[t].sub.x=[t].sub.x [t].sub.x wherein [t].sub.x comprises a skew matrix of the translation vector t, and wherein H comprises calibrated Homography. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein prior to determining the translation vector, if a focal length of the camera is varying, the focal lengths are first computed and then the scale factor is determined. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein computing the Homography matrix comprises computing the Homography matrix from at least four pairs of corresponding projection points of the scene where each of the at least four pairs comprises a point in the projector plane and its corresponding point in the camera plane. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein bundle adjustment is used to improve the solutions. 5. A computer vision system, comprising: a projector for projecting a light pattern onto an object in a scene, a camera for obtaining an image of said object, and a computer for controlling the vision system, wherein said computer implements a self-recalibration method comprising: defining a camera plane and a projector plane; computing a Homography matrix between the camera plane and the projector plane; determining a translation vector and a rotation matrix from Homography-based constraints; wherein prior to determining the translation vector, if intrinsic parameters of the camera are known, a scale factor and its sign are determined; and wherein the scale factor .lamda. is determined from an equation: .lamda..sup.2[t].sub.x HH.sup.T[t].sub.x=[t].sub.x [t].sub.x wherein [t].sub.x comprises a skew matrix of the translation vector t, and wherein H comprises calibrated Homography. 6. A computer vision system as claimed in claim 5, wherein prior to determining the translation vector, if a focal length of the camera is varying, the focal lengths are first computed and then the scale factor is determined. 7. A computer vision system as claimed in claim 5, wherein computing the Homography matrix comprises computing the Homography matrix from at least four pairs of corresponding projection points of the scene where each of the at least four pairs comprises a point in the projector plane and its corresponding point in the camera plane. 8. A computer vision system as claimed in claim 5, wherein in said self-recalibration method bundle adjustment is used to improve the solutions. 