A chuck adapted for releasably securing data discs and the like for processing and testing procedures includes an arbor secured at its proximal end to a rotatable tool, and a cylindrical bore within the arbor houses a reciprocating piston. A spring within the bore biases the piston proximally, and a piston rod extends through an aperture in the distal end of the arbor. The distal end of the arbor includes a neck portion extending axially and distally and dimensioned to extend through the central aperture of a data disc, and an annular land surface extending about the neck portion to impinge upon the disc surface adjacent to the central aperture thereof. A resilient bushing is secured coaxially to the distal end of the piston rod, the bushing having a truncated conical configuration tapering toward the distal end. The proximal end of the bushing is dimensioned to be slightly smaller in diameter than the inner diameter of the annular land surface, and is provided with a bevelled outer edge. Air pressure is provided to the proximal side of the piston to drive the piston and piston rod distally, the bevelled edge of the bushing impinging on the end surface of the neck portion of the arbor when the piston is extended distally. When the air pressure is relieved and a disc has been secured about the neck portion of the arbor, the spring force of the spring within the arbor drives the piston and rod proximally, compressing the bushing axially and causing it to deform and spread at its proximal end. The bevelled proximal edge of the deforming bushing wipes radially outwardly onto the inner annular surface of the disc, urging the disc to impinge on the annular land surface of the arbor and securing the disc thereto. The bevelled edge is significant in creating a trailing edge effect which pushes a disc onto the land surface, even if the disc was not originally placed correctly on the land surface.
Claims I claim: 1. A chuck for releasably retaining a disc having first and second opposite surfaces and a central aperture extending therebetween, said chuck being comprised of: an arbor extending along an axis of rotation and having a proximal end and a distal end, said arbor including at its distal end a coaxial neck portion dimensioned to be received through the central aperture of the disc, an annular land surface extending about said neck portion and disposed to receive and seat a portion of said first surface of a disc which is to be retained by said chuck; a deformable annular bushing disposed adjacent to said neck portion and being secured to said arbor in coaxial relationship therewith, said bushing having an annular sidewall portion formed of resilient material which expands radially in response to axial compression of said bushing, said bushing further having an annular edge at the periphery of said sidewall portion that contacts said neck portion of said arbor when said bushing is in an uncompressed condition and which edge increases in diameter to overlay and bear against an adjacent annular region of said second disc surface when said bushing is compressed, and means for compressing said bushing in the axial direction to expand said annular edge of said bushing radially outward and onto said second surface of said disc thereby clamping said disc against said land surface. 2. The disc chuck of claim 1 wherein said arbor has a chamber therein and an axial passage extending from said chamber towards said distal end of said arbor and wherein said means for compressing said bushing in the axial direction includes a slidable piston in said chamber and a translatable rod extending through said passage that is coupled to said piston and to means for compressing said bushing against said distal end of said arbor in response to movement of said piston and said rod towards said proximal end of said arbor and means for selectively translating said piston which translation means includes a compression spring disposed to urge said piston axially toward said proximal end of said arbor and fluid pressure means for selectively applying fluid pressure to said piston to urge said piston axially toward the distal end of said arbor. 3. The disc chuck of claim 2 wherein said bushing includes a central bore therethrough and wherein said rod extends from said arbor through said bore of said bushing, and wherein said means for compressing said bushing against said distal end of said arbor includes a cap member secured to said rod and extending radially outward therefrom at the end of said bushing that is remote from said annular edge thereof. 4. The disc chuck of claim 3, wherein said cap member is greater in diameter than the proximal end of said bushing while being smaller in diameter than said central aperture of said disc. 5. The disc chuck of claim 3 further including a threaded member extending from said cap member through said central bore to engage said rod. 6. The disc chuck of claim 1, wherein said bushing has a truncated conical configuration tapering toward the distal end thereof. 7. The disc chuck of claim 1, wherein said annular edge of said sidewall portion includes a bevelled surface extending thereabout and defining a wiping surface disposed to engage the inner annular surface of a disc disposed about said neck portion and to urge the disc into impingement with said land surface. 8. The disc chuck of claim 1, wherein said annular sidewall portion of said bushing has a conical outer surface that tapers towards the distal end of the bushing, and wherein said bushing includes an inner peripheral surface extending coaxially with the proximal portion of the conical outer surface of said bushing to define said sidewall portion therebetween, said inner peripheral surface extending in tapering configuration toward the distal end of said bushing. 9. A chuck for releasably retaining a disc having a central aperture, including; an arbor extending along an axis of rotation and having a proximal end and a distal end, said arbor including at its distal end a coaxial neck portion dimensioned to be received through the central aperture of the disc, an annular land surface extending about said neck portion and disposed to impinge upon a portion of a surface of a disc secured thereto, a resilient, deformable bushing disposed adjacent to said neck portion and secured coaxially to said arbor, said bushing including a sidewall portion having a free proximal annular edge with a diameter slightly less than the central aperture of the disc, means for compressing said bushing in the axial direction to expand said free proximal edge of said bushing radially outwardly to impinge on a disc disposed about said neck portion, including a piston rod extending from the distal end of said arbor, a piston disposed within said arbor and joined to said piston rod, cap means secured to the distal end of said piston rod to compress said bushing as said piston rod translates proximally, said bushing including a truncated conical configuration tapering toward the distal end thereof, and an inner peripheral surface coaxial with the outer conical surface of said bushing and defining therebetween said bushing sidewall portion, and a bevelled edge formed at said free proximal edge of said sidewall portion to define a wiping surface disposed to engage the inner annular surface of a disc disposed about said neck portion and to urge the disc into impingement with said land surface. 