The workstock may comprise a tailstock having a slide which releasably carries a workpart center and which includes a center ejector member independently movable in the slide. The slide is mounted in a housing for axial motion toward and away from a headstock center to load and unload a workpart therebetween. The axial position of the slide as well as the center ejector member is monitored by position sensors to provide status of the tailstock center and workpart. The workpart center is loosened by the ejector member in the slide when the ejector member is positioned from a retracted position relative to the pocket to a center eject position toward the pocket so that a robot may remove the center and substitute another center to hold a different workpart.
Claims We claim: 1. In a method for loading a workpart between spaced opposing workpart centers, the steps of mounting at least one of the workpart centers in a housing for translational movement therein toward the other workpart center, moving said one of the workpart centers toward the other workpart center to attempt to engage a workpart that should have been positioned between the opposing centers, including moving said one of the workpart centers (1) to a position where engagement with the workpart should occur if the workpart length is within tolerance, (2) past said position where engagement should occur in the event the workpart is too short or not present between the opposing workpart centers or (3) short of said position where engagement should occur in the event the workpart is too long, sensing the translational position of said one of the workpart centers as it moves toward the other workpart center, generating position signals indicative of translational position and inputting the position signals to a control unit to determine if an abnormal relative positional condition exists between the workpart and said one of the workpart centers indicative of a workpart that is too short, too long or not present between the opposing workpart centers. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said one of the workpart centers is moved by applying fluid pressure thereto. 3. A workstock comprising: (a) a housing; (b) a slide mounted for longitudinal movement in the housing, said slide having a pocket and a center ejector mounted for longitudinal independent movement in the slide toward and away from the pocket; (c) a workpart center releasably retained in the pocket in line with the center ejector; (d) means for biasing the center ejector away from the pocket to allow the workpart center to be held releasably in the pocket; (e) means for relatively longitudinally moving the center ejector and slide to cause the workpart center and center ejector to contact to free the workpart center in the pocket for removal; (f) means for moving the slide to cause the workpart center to attempt to engage a workpart that should have been positioned in the path of slide movement, including moving the slide to move said workpart center (1) to a position where engagement with the workpart should occur if the workpart length is within tolerance, (2) past said position where engagement should occur in the event the workpart is too short or not present or (3) short of said position where engagement should occur in the event the workpart is too long; (g) first means for sensing the position of the slide as the workpart center attempts to contact the workpart and providing a position signal; (h) second means for sensing the position of the center ejector relative to said slide and providing another position signal, and (i) control means for receiving the position signal from said first sensing means to determine if an abnormal positional condition exists between the workpart center and workpart indicative of a workpart that is too short, too long or not present and for receiving said another position signal from the second sensing means to determine if the workpart center is positioned in said pocket. 4. The workstock of claim 3 further including means for moving the center ejector in the slide toward the pocket to a center eject position. 5. The workstock of claim 4 wherein said means for moving the center ejector in the slide includes means for retaining the center ejector in the center eject position while the slide moves longitudinally in the housing to move an end of the workpart center in the pocket into engagement with an end of the center ejector to free the workpart center in the pocket. 6. The workstock of claim 5 wherein the means for moving and retaining the center ejector in the center eject position comprises a transversely movable ramp in the housing against which an opposite end of the center ejector abuts to displace it toward the pocket. 7. The workstock of claim 6 wherein the ramp is fluid pressured biased to engage the opposite end of the center ejector. 8. The workstock of claim 7 wherein the ramp is fluid biased in an opposite direction to retract the ramp from engagement with the opposite end. 9. The workstock of claim 3 further including a second slide on which the housing is mounted for movement toward and away from a headstock to re-position the housing for different workparts to allow the workpart center to move toward a workpart to hold same and to provide a signal from said sensing means to the control means for determining if said abnormal positional condition exists. 10. In a method for loading a workpart between spaced opposing workpart centers, the steps of mounting at least one of the workpart centers in a housing for translational movement therein toward the other workpart center to engage a workpart that should have been positioned between the opposing centers, sensing the translational position of said one of the workpart centers as it moves toward the other workpart center, generating position signals indicative of the translational position of said one of the workpart centers and inputting the position signals to a control unit to determine if an abnormal relative positional condition exists between the workpart and said one of the workpart centers, and further including mounting an ejector member in said one of the workpart centers, translating the ejector member therein to loosen a center releasably held on said one of the workpart centers, sensing the translational position of the ejector member in combination with sensing of the translational position of said one of the workpart centers and generating position signals indicative of the translational position of the ejector member for input to the control unit to determine if the center is positioned on said one of the workpart centers. 