A high temperature sensor for use with an induced vibration dynamic touch sensor system comprising a pad element adapted for sliding contact with an object so as to induce vibrations in the pad, a mechanical coupling means comprising a stiff, substantially straight member for coupling the pad to a transducer assembly, the transducer assembly for converting the vibrations into electrical signals. The electrical signals are processed to produce a normalized spectral signature characteristic of the size and shape of the object, and the sizes and shapes and nature of its surface features. A pattern vector is extracted from the spectral signature and subjected to discriminant analysis to classify and recognize the object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Sensor apparatus comprising: pad means having a lower surface for contacting a surface of an object; means for producing sliding contact between said lower surface of said pad means and an object; means for mechancially coupling said pad means to a transducer means and for spacing said pad means from said transducer means at a predetermined distance, said mechanical coupling means comprising an elongated, substantially straight member connected to said transducer means near an upper end and connected to said pad means at a lower end; said pad means and said elongated straight member being made of material capable of withstanding temperatures substantially above room temperature; said transducer means for sensing vibrations and for producing an electrical signal corresponding to the vibrations; means for deriving from the electrical signal a pattern characteristic of the object; and wherein vibrations induced in said pad means during said sliding contact with said object are transmitted to said transducer means by said mechanical coupling means. 2. The sensor apparatus of claim 1 wherein said elongated straight member is of sufficient length whereby said predetermined spacing of said transducer means from said pad means will substantially isolate said transducer means from elevated temperatures when a surface of said object is at a temperature substantially above room temperature. 3. The sensor apparatus of claim 1 wherein said mechanical coupling means further comprises a means for bracing said elongated member, said bracing means disposed near said lower end thereof, said bracing means being so constructed and arranged to permit said elongated member to be translated in a direction substantially along a longitudinal axis of said member, said bracing means further restraining movement of said elongated member in other directions. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means responsive to the pattern form identifying the object. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the identifying means comprises means for comparing the pattern to stored patterns of known objects. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the pattern comprises a multiple variable pattern vector characteristic of the object and said electrical signal comprises a spectral density signature corresponding to the vibrations, and each variable of the pattern vector corresponds to the energy contained in the signature in a different frequency increment. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said deriving means comprises means for performing a discriminant analysis on the pattern vector. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said performing means comprises a computer. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said transducer means comprises means for sensing vibrations primarily in a predetermined direction. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said transducer means comprises a piezoelectric polymer of PVDF. 11. A high temperature sensor for sue with an induced vibration dynamic touch sensor system comprising: a pad means for contacting a surface of an object to be sensed, said pad means being integral with said straight member, and said pad means further comprises a lower end of said steel wire, said lower end being bent to form a lower surface of said wire for contacting said object to be sensed; means for mechanically linking said pad to a remote transducer assembly means comprising an elongated, substantially straight member of steel wire, said elongated straight member being connected to said transducer assembly means at an upper end of said wire; and said transducer assembly means for converting mechanical strains induced in said transducer assembly means by vibration of said pad means into electrical signals, said electrical signals to be analyzed by said induced vibration dynamic touch sensor system, said vibration being transmitted to said transducer assembly means from said pad means by said linking means. 12. A high temperature sensor as described in claim 11 wherein said elongated straight member is of sufficient length to space said remote transducer assembly means from said pad means at a distance sufficient to permit said transducer assembly means to operate at substantially room temperature when a surface of said object to be sensed is at a temperature substantially above room temperature. 13. A high temperature sensor as described in claim 11 further comprising positioning means for positioning said elongated straight member in an orientation substantially normal to said surface of said object to be sensed. 14. A high temperature sensor as described in claim 11 further comprising means for bracing said straight member, said bracing means being adapted to permit said straight member to move in a direction along a longitudinal axis of said member and to restrain movement of said straight member in other directions. 15. A high temperature sensor as described in claim 11 wherein said sensor further comprises a plurality of said elongated straight members of steel wire, each of said straight members having an associated integral pad means, each of said elongated straight members being connected to said transducer assembly means at an upper end of said straight member, wherein each of said pad elongated straight members and integral pad means is capable of independent movement. 16. A high temperature sensor as described in claim 15, further comprising positioning means for positioning said plurality of elongated straight members in an orientation substantially normal to said surface of said object to be sensed. 17. A high temperature sensor as described in claim 15 further comprising means for bracing said plurality of elongated straight members, said bracing means being adapted to permit each of said plurality of straight members to move in a direction along a longitudinal axis thereof and to restrain movement of each of said straight members in other directions. 18. A high temperature sensor as described in claim 14 wherein said bracing means comprises a compliant mounting further comprising a set of resilient bumpers disposed to substantially abut two sides of said elongated straight member near said lower end thereof. 19. A high temperature sensor as described in claim 17 wherein said bracing means comprises a compliant mounting further comprising a set of resilient bumpers disposed to substantially abut two sides of each of said plurality of said elongated members near said lower end thereof. 