Calibration methods and apparatuses for a shape sensing optical fiber are disclosed. Strain is sensed in an optical fiber that is associated with a kinematic chain, and information derived from the sensed strain is used to determine a calibration relationship between the fiber and the kinematic chain. The strain may be sensed at a plurality of angles between two links in the kinematic chain. The strain may be sensed in a segment of the optical fiber that is associated with a joint in the kinematic chain as the joint sweeps through an arc. The strain may be sensed for the optical fiber in a known, predefined bend shape. The calibration information is stored in memory for later use during operation of the kinematic chain, so that shape information from the optical fiber can be used to accurately indicate the shape or pose of the kinematic chain.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of calibrating an optical fiber shape sensor, comprising: sensing strain in a segment of a multicore optical fiber associated with a kinematic chain; defining a fiber reference frame for the fiber; defining a kinematic chain reference frame for the kinematic chain; determining a calibration relationship between the fiber reference frame and the kinematic chain reference frame; and storing the calibration relationship in a memory. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein defining a fiber reference frame comprises: determining local bend information at each of a plurality of locations in the segment; wherein the local bend information at each location is determined in a two-dimensional reference frame; wherein the two-dimensional reference frame at each location is normal to the fiber; and wherein all two-dimensional reference frames are oriented in the same way with reference to the same core in the multicore fiber. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: positioning the kinematic chain in a known pose to create local bend in the fiber. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: rotating a joint in the kinematic chain with an actuator to create local bend in the fiber. 5. The method of claim 4: wherein the act of sensing strain occurs as the joint rotates. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: positioning the kinematic chain in a jig to create local bend in the fiber. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: positioning the fiber in a fixture associated with the kinematic chain to create the local bend in the fiber. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the calibration relationship comprises: determining a two-dimensional rotational matrix that is used to transform bend information sensed in the fiber into bend information for a joint in the kinematic chain. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the calibration relationship comprises: determining a three-dimensional matrix that is used to transform position and orientation information sensed in the fiber into position and orientation information for a link in the kinematic chain. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining a start location along the fiber at which strain begins to be sensed for the bend and an end location along the fiber at which strain stops being sensed for the bend; and defining a bend segment between the start location and the end location. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising: adjusting either or both the start location and the end location to account for the fiber sliding in relation to a portion of the kinematic chain. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining an offset of the fiber from a centerline of the kinematic chain. 13. A method of calibrating an optical fiber shape sensor, comprising: positioning a first link in a kinematic chain at a plurality of angles with reference to a second link in the kinematic chain; interrogating a segment of a shape sensing optical fiber that extends between the first link and the second link for shape information at each of the plurality of angles; producing calibration information by correlating the shape information with a reference frame associated with the kinematic chain; and storing the calibration information in a memory. 14. The method of claim 13: wherein positioning the first link comprises moving the first link with an actuator. 15. The method of claim 13: wherein positioning the first link at a plurality of angles comprises sweeping the first link through an arc; and wherein interrogating the segment of the optical fiber for shape information comprises sampling the shape information during the sweeping. 16. The method of claim 13: wherein producing calibration information comprises determining an origin of a curvilinear coordinate system for the optical fiber. 17. The method of claim 13: wherein producing calibration information comprises correlating a bend axis of the optical fiber with a joint axis between the first link and the second link. 18. The method of claim 13: wherein producing calibration information comprises defining a bend angle of a joint between the first link and the second link based on local curvature information at each sensed local location in a bend of the fiber associated with the joint. 19. The method of claim 13: wherein producing calibration information comprises defining a location of the optical fiber at which a bend in the optical fiber starts. 20. The method of claim 13: wherein producing calibration information comprises defining a location of the optical fiber at which a bend in the optical fiber ends. 21. The method of claim 13: wherein producing calibration information comprises determining an offset of the optical fiber from a centerline of the kinematic chain. 22. A method of calibrating an optical fiber shape sensor, comprising: interrogating a segment of a shape sensing optical fiber for shape information that is associated with a predefined bend shape in the segment of the optical fiber; producing calibration information by correlating the shape information with a reference frame associated with a kinematic chain; and storing the calibration information in a memory. 23. The method of claim 22: wherein producing calibration information comprises determining an origin of a curvilinear coordinate system for the optical fiber. 24. The method of claim 22: wherein producing calibration information comprises defining a location of the optical fiber at which a bend in the optical fiber starts. 25. The method of claim 22: wherein producing calibration information comprises defining a location of the optical fiber at which a bend in the optical fiber ends. 26. An optical fiber shape sensor calibration apparatus comprising: an optical fiber strain interrogator, wherein the optical fiber strain interrogator senses strain in a segment of a multicore optical fiber associated with a kinematic chain; and an automated data processor, wherein the automated data processor determines a calibration relationship between a reference frame defined for the optical fiber and a reference frame defined for the kinematic chain, and wherein the automated data processor stores the calibration relationship in a memory. 27. The calibration apparatus of claim 26: wherein the automated data processor determines local bend information at each of a plurality of locations in the segment; wherein the local bend information at each location is determined in a two-dimensional reference frame; wherein the two-dimensional reference frame at each location is normal to the fiber; and wherein all two-dimensional reference frames are oriented in the same way with reference to the same core in the multicore fiber. 28. The calibration apparatus of claim 26 further comprising: an actuator coupled to move the kinematic chain, wherein the actuator rotates a joint in the kinematic chain to create local bend in the fiber. 29. The calibration apparatus of claim 26 further comprising: an actuator coupled to move the kinematic chain; wherein the actuator rotates a joint in the kinematic chain to create local bend in the fiber; wherein the segment of a multicore optical fiber is associated with the joint; and wherein the optical fiber strain interrogator senses strain in the segment of a multicore optical fiber as the joint rotates. 30. The calibration apparatus of claim 26 further comprising: a calibration jig; wherein the calibration jig is configured to position the kinematic chain to create local bend in the fiber. 31. The calibration apparatus of claim 26 further comprising: a fixture associated with the kinematic chain; wherein the fixture is configured to position the kinematic chain to create local bend in the fiber. 32. The calibration apparatus of claim 26: wherein determining a calibration relationship comprises determining a two-dimensional rotational matrix that is used to transform bend information sensed in the fiber into bend information for a joint in the kinematic chain. 33. The calibration apparatus of claim 26: wherein determining a calibration relationship comprises determining a three-dimensional matrix that is used to transform position and orientation information sensed in the fiber into position and orientation information for a link in the kinematic chain. 34. The calibration apparatus of claim 26: wherein determining a calibration relationship comprises determining a start location along the fiber at which strain begins to be sensed for the bend, determining an end location along the fiber at which strain stops being sensed for the bend, and defining a bend segment between the start location and the end location. 35. The calibration apparatus of claim 34: wherein determining a calibration relationship further comprises adjusting either or both the start location and the end location to account for the fiber sliding in relation to a portion of the kinematic chain. 36. The calibration apparatus of claim 26: wherein determining a calibration relationship comprises determining an offset of the fiber from a centerline of the kinematic chain. 37. An optical fiber shape sensor calibration apparatus comprising: an actuator coupled to position a first link in a kinematic chain at a plurality of angles with reference to a second link in the kinematic chain; an optical fiber strain interrogator, wherein the optical fiber strain interrogator interrogates a segment of an optical fiber that extends between the first link and the second link for shape information at each of the plurality of angles; and an automated data processor, wherein the automated data processor produces calibration information by correlating the shape information with a reference frame associated with the kinematic chain, and wherein the automated data processor stores the calibration relationship in a memory. 38. The calibration apparatus of claim 37: wherein the actuator sweeps the first link through an arc as the actuator positions the first link at the plurality of angles; and wherein the optical fiber strain interrogator interrogates the segment of the optical fiber by sampling the shape information as the actuator sweeps the first link through the arc. 39. The calibration apparatus of claim 37: wherein producing calibration information comprises determining an origin of a curvilinear coordinate system for the optical fiber. 40. The calibration apparatus of claim 37: wherein producing calibration information comprises correlating a bend axis of the segment of the optical fiber with a joint axis between the first link and the second link. 41. The calibration apparatus of claim 37: wherein producing calibration information comprises defining a bend angle of a joint between the first link and the second link based on local curvature information at each sensed local location in a bend of the fiber associated with the joint. 42. The calibration apparatus of claim 37: wherein producing calibration information comprises defining a location of the optical fiber at which a bend in the optical fiber starts. 43. The calibration apparatus of claim 37: wherein producing calibration information comprises defining a location of the optical fiber at which a bend in the optical fiber ends. 44. The calibration apparatus of claim 37: wherein producing calibration information comprises determining an offset of the optical fiber from a centerline of the kinematic chain. 45. An optical fiber shape sensor calibration apparatus comprising: an optical fiber strain interrogator, wherein the optical fiber strain interrogator interrogates a segment of a shape sensing optical fiber for shape information that is associated with a predefined bend shape in the segment of the optical fiber; and an automated data processor, wherein the automated data processor produces calibration information by correlating the shape information with a reference frame associated with a kinematic chain, and wherein the automated data processor stores the calibration relationship in a memory. 46. The calibration apparatus of claim 45: wherein producing calibration information comprises determining an origin of a curvilinear coordinate system for the optical fiber. 47. The calibration apparatus of claim 45: wherein producing calibration information comprises defining a location of the optical fiber at which a bend in the optical fiber starts. 48. The calibration apparatus of claim 45: wherein producing calibration information comprises defining a location of the optical fiber at which a bend in the optical fiber ends. 