Control systems and methods are disclosed for controlling operation of movable systems in an automated process with a stationary system having a first control system component and at least one movable system having a second control system component, in which optical or other non-contacting signaling between the stationary and movable systems is used to ascertain whether a movable system is proximate the stationary system, and wireless communications is used to transfer control data between the systems while the non-contacting signal link is maintained.
Claims Having thus described the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A control system for controlling operation of a movable system, the control system comprising: a wireless communications component associated with a stationary system; a non-contacting signaling component associated with the stationary system and operative to transmit or receive a signal in a signal path proximate the stationary system; and a control system component associated with the stationary system and operatively coupled with the non-contacting signaling component and with the wireless communications component, the control system component being at least one of a control module and an I/O module implementing a control program, the control system component using the non-contacting signaling system to verify whether a movable system is proximate the stationary system and using the wireless communications component to provide control information to a second control system component mounted to a particular movable system to cause at least one control actuator of the particular movable system to perform at least one manufacturing, assembly, testing, or other processing step relative to a part or workpiece transported by the movable system while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system. 2. The control system of claim 1, wherein the signal is an optical signal. 3. The control system of claim 1, wherein the non-contacting signaling component comprises an optical transmitter operative to transmit the optical signal in the signal path proximate the stationary system. 4. The control signal of claim 3, wherein the optical signal is modulated by the optical transmitter to include an identifier unique to the stationary system and wherein the control system component verifies that the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system based on wireless communications from the particular movable system that includes the identifier. 5. The control system of claim 1, wherein the non-contacting signaling component comprises a receiver operative to receive the signal in the signal path from a movable system proximate the stationary system. 6. The control system of claim 5, wherein the signal is an optical signal. 7. The control system of claim 1, wherein the control system component is operative to assign an identifier to the particular movable system using the wireless communications component while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system. 8. A movable system for performing at least one controlled operation while proximate a stationary system, comprising: a movable pallet that may be conveyed or directed to different stations in a manufacturing plant, the movable pallet operative to support at least one part or workpiece; a wireless communications component mounted on the movable pallet; a non-contacting signaling component mounted on the movable pallet and operative to transmit or receive a signal in a signal path proximate a particular stationary system while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system; a control system component mounted on the movable pallet and operatively coupled with the non-contacting signaling component and with the wireless communications component, the control system component using the non-contacting signaling system to verify whether the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system and using the wireless communications component to receive control information from a second control system component associated with the particular stationary system while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system; and at least one control actuator mounted on the movable pallet and operable by the control system component according to the control information received from the particular stationary system to perform at least one manufacturing, assembly, testing, or other processing step relative to the at least one part or workpiece transported by the movable system while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system. 9. The movable system of claim 8, wherein the control system component is at least one of a control module and an I/O module implementing a control program. 10. The movable system of claim 8, wherein the non-contacting signaling component comprises a receiver operative to receive the signal from the signal path while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system. 11. The movable system of claim 8, wherein the non-contacting signaling component comprises a transmitter operative to send the signal to the particular stationary system through the signal path while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system. 12. The movable system of claim 8, wherein the signal is an optical signal. 13. The movable system of claim 12, wherein the signal is modulated. 14. The movable system of claim 8, wherein the control system component is operative to receive an identifier from the particular stationary system by wireless communications while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system. 15. The movable system of claim 8, wherein the control system component is operative to provide a previously assigned identifier to the particular stationary system by wireless communications while the particular movable system is proximate the stationary system. 16. In an automated system having a stationary system with a first control system component and a movable system having a second control system component and a control actuator, a method for controlling at least one operation of the movable system while the movable system is proximate the stationary system, the method comprising: determining whether the movable system is currently proximate the stationary system using non-contacting signaling apparatus on the stationary and movable systems; implementing a control program in at least one of the first control system component of the stationary system and the second control system component of the movable system; transferring control information between the first control system component of the stationary system and the second control system component of the movable system by wireless communications while the movable system is determined to be proximate the stationary system; causing the control actuator of the movable system to perform at least one manufacturing, assembly, testing, or other processing step relative to the at least one part or workpiece transported by the movable system while the movable system is proximate the particular stationary system according to the control information transferred between the first control system component of the stationary system and the second control system component of the movable system; and discontinuing transfer of control information between the control system components of the stationary and movable systems when the movable system is determined to be no longer proximate the stationary system. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein determining whether the movable system is currently proximate the stationary system comprises: transmitting an optical signal by a first one of the stationary system and the movable system; and determining that the movable system is currently proximate the stationary system if the optical signal is successfully received by a second one of the stationary system and the movable system. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein transferring control information between the stationary and movable systems comprises assigning an identifier to the movable system by wireless communications while the movable system is determined to be proximate the stationary system. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein transferring control information between the stationary and movable systems comprises providing a previously assigned identifier to the stationary system by wireless communications while the movable system is determined to be proximate the stationary system. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein transferring control information between the stationary and movable systems comprises using a wireless communications component of the stationary system to communicate with a control module or an I/O module associated with the movable system. 