A multibeam structure measures displacement of one or more response elements to detect multiple components of applied force. The flexible beams are each coupled to a response element which may be displaced by a force arising from linear acceleration, angular acceleration, fluid flow, electric/magnetic/gravitational fields, and others sources. The displacement of the response element is detected with a variety of sensing methods including capacitive and piezoresistive sensing.
Claims We claim: 1. A multidimensional force sensor, comprising: a substantially planar main body having a first aperture and a second aperture; a plurality of sensor assemblies extending across said first aperture and said second aperture, each such sensor assembly comprising: a first beam attached at a first end to an edge of said main body adjacent to said aperture and projecting into said aperture; a second beam attached at a first end to an edge of said main body adjacent to said aperture and directly opposite said first beam and projecting into said aperture; a response element attached to the second ends of said first beam and said second beam in said aperture; and first and second piezoresistors, each extending towards said response element from the first end of each of said first and second beams, along a first side of said first and second beams, less than halfway towards said response element, then extending across said first and second beams, and then extending away from said response element along a second side of each of said first and second beams opposite from said first side of said first and second beams, to the first end of each of said first and second beams; said piezoresistors on said first beams being electrically connected in series; said piezoresistors on said second beams being electrically connected in series; and said first and second beams in said sensor assemblies in said first aperture being substantially perpendicular to said first and second beams in said sensor assemblies in said second aperture. 2. A multidimensional force sensor, as described in claim 1, wherein said main body and said beams comprise an integrally formed piece of semiconducting material. 3. A multidimensional force sensor, as described in claim 2, wherein said semiconducting material is silicon. 4. A multidimensional force sensor, as described in claim 2, wherein said semiconducting material is germanium. 5. A multidimensional force sensor, as described in claim 1, wherein said main body and said beams comprise an integrally formed piece of material selected from the group consisting of quartz, glass and ceramics. 6. A multidimensional force sensor, as described in claim 1, further comprising limiting means partially surrounding one of said response elements for limiting displacement of said response element. 7. A multidimensional force sensor, as described in claim 6, wherein said limiting means comprises a casing. 8. A multidimensional force sensor, as described in claim 1, further comprising limiting means completely surrounding one of said response elements for limiting displacement of said response element. 9. A multidimensional force sensor, as described in claim 1, further comprising damping means surrounding one of said beams, for damping vibration of said beam. 10. A multidimensional force sensor, as described in claim 9, wherein said damping means comprises a fluid. 