Apparatus (11) is robotically operated to pick up an optical element such as a ball lens (12) or an optical fiber, place it in a groove or depression (13) of a substrate (14), and apply pressure to it so that it is bonded to the substrate. The tool comprises a retracting element holder (17) surrounding a bonding tool (16). A vacuum channel (18) communicates with the element holder so that, by the application of a vacuum, it can pick up an optical element. The tool then moves the element to place it, for example, in a depression (13) of a substrate, whereupon the vacuum is released, thereby to allow the element to nest between opposing sidewalls of the depression. The retracting holder element is simultaneously retracted vertically upwardly so as to expose a bonding surface of the bonding tool. After the element has nested in the groove, the bonding tool contacts the element and forces it against opposite sidewalls to effect a thermo-compression bond of the optical element with the sidewalls.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for bonding a curved optical element to slanted opposing sidewalls of a substrate comprising the steps of: providing a retracting element holder surrounding a bonding tool; providing a vacuum channel communicating with the holder; contacting the holder to the element and applying a vacuum to the vacuum channel to cause the element to adhere to the holder; moving the element to a location above the slanted opposing sidewalls of the substrate; releasing the vacuum, thereby to allow the element to nest between opposing sidewalls; causing the holder to retract vertically upwardly so as to expose a bonding surface of the bonding tool; and lowering the bonding tool to contact the element and force it against the opposing sidewalls. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein: the element has a substantially circular cross section; the slanted opposing sidewalls form substantially a V-shaped configuration, whereby when the vacuum is released, the element nests symmetrically with respect to the V-shape; and the surface of the bonding tool that contacts the element is a substantially flat horizontal surface. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein: the element is a cylindrical optical fiber having a central axis; the slanted sidewalls define a V-shaped channel; and when the vacuum is released, at least part of the optical fiber nests in the channel with its central axis parallel to said channel. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein: the element is a spherical glass ball; the slanted sidewalls define a pyramid-shaped depression in the substrate; and when the vacuum is released, the glass ball nests in the depression with its surface contacting at least three opposing sidewalls. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein: the sidewalls are coated with aluminum; the curved element has an outer surface of glass; and the sidewalls are heated during the lowering of the bonding tool step. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein: the sidewalls are heated to a temperature of approximately three hundred fifty degrees Centigrade; and during the lowering step, the bonding tool is pressed against the curved element with a force of approximately six hundred grams. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein: a first part of the vacuum channel extends through an interior of the bonding tool and a second portion of the vacuum channel is defined between an inner surface of the element holder and an outer surface of the bonding tool. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein: an adhesive is provided between the element and the sidewalls to aid in bonding the element to the sidewalls. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein: a solder is provided between the element and the sidewalls and is heated to a fluid condition prior to lowering the bonding tool. 10. The method of claim 6 wherein: the element is a spherical glass ball; the slanted sidewalls define a pyramid-shaped depression in the substrate; and when the vacuum is released, the glass ball nests in the depression and contacts three opposing sidewalls. 11. The method of claim 5 wherein: the element is a cylindrical optical fiber having a central axis; the slanted sidewalls define a V-shaped channel; and when the vacuum is released, at least part of the optical fiber nests in the channel with its central axis parallel to said channel. 