In the method of this invention, dispensed volume is calculated from the ratio of the absorbance values for a sample delivered by a precisely calibrated pipette and the sample dispensed by an automated pipette. This links a gravimetric method of calibration to a colorimetric method.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of determining the accuracy of a liquid dispensing pipette using a plurality of wells of the same configuration and volume by the steps of: using a precisely calibrated pipette, introducing a known volume of a colorimetric reagent of a known concentration that absorbs radiant energy in a manner directly proportional to the colorometric reagent concentration in a first one of said wells, dispensing a first desired volume of the colorimetric reagent using the liquid dispensing pipet into a second one of said wells, measuring absorbance of the reagent in each of the wells, and calculating an actual volume of reagent dispensed in the second well by multiplying the known volume by the ratio of the absorbance of reagent in the second well to the absorbance of the reagent in the first well. 2. The method of claim 1 which includes an additional step of comparing the calculated actual volume with the desired volume. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the colorimetric reagent is either cobalt sulfate or potassium dichromate. 4. The method of claim 1 which includes additional steps of dispensing a second desired volume of the colorimetric reagent together with a first desired volume of a diluent for the reagent into a third well, and calculating the actual volume of reagent dispensed in the third well by multiplying the known volume by the ratio of the absorbance of the reagent in the third well to the absorbance of the reagent in the first well. 5. In the method of claim 4 wherein the diluent is sulfuric acid. 6. In the method of claim 2 which includes additional steps of dispensing a second desired volume of the colorimetric reagent together with a first desired volume of a diluent for the reagent into a third well, and calculating the actual volume of reagent dispensed in the third well by multiplying the known volume by the ratio of the absorbance of the reagent in the third well to the absorbance of the reagent in the first well. 7. In the method of claim 6 wherein the colorimetric reagent is cobalt sulfate. 8. In the method of claim 3 wherein additional rows of wells are each dispensed with desired volumes of different concentrations of the colorimetric reagent, calculating the actual volume of each of the different desired volumes dispensed by multiplying the known volume by the ratio of the absorbance of reagent in each dispensed well to the average absorbance of the first row of wells. 