A robot end effector exchange system comprises a movable robot arm and an end effector. Connecting structure on each of the arm and end effector are operable for releasably attaching the arm and end effector in an operative relationship. A fixture supportably receives the end effector attached to the robot arm and includes restraining structure operable for holding the end effector on the fixture to permit attachment and detachment of the end effector and the arm. Hydraulic actuators on the fixture selectively operate the connecting structure and the restraining structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot end effector exchange system, comprising: a movable robot arm; an end effector including a body and a tool mechanism carried by the body; the robot arm and end effector each including means for connecting one to the other, the connecting means operable to a first condition for permitting the detachment of the robot arm from the end effector, and operable to a second condition for attaching the end effector to the robot arm; a fixture for supportably receiving the end effector in a predetermined orientation at times when the end effector is attached to the robot arm, the fixture including restraining means operable to a first condition for holding the end effector in the predetermined orientation on the fixture at times when the connecting means is operated to either the first or second condition and operable to a second condition for permitting the removal by the arm of the end effector from the fixture; and actuation means on the fixture for selectively operating the connecting means and the restraining means to the first and second conditions. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the end effector comprises hydraulic means responsive to fluid pressure for operating the tool mechanism and the connecting means comprises a socket member and a nipple member, each being on one of the arm and end effector, the socket member being operable to the first condition to engage the nipple member to form a fluid tight coupling between the arm and the tool mechanism and for permitting the removal by the arm of the end effector from the fixture and operable to the second condition to disengage from the nipple member for permitting the detachment of the robot arm from the end effector. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the socket member extends from the arm and the nipple member extends from the body of the end effector. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the fixture comprises a frame configured to receive the end effector in the predetermined orientation at times when the end effector is attached to the robot arm, and the body of the end effector is configured for mating with the frame of the fixture. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the body has a plurality of spaced vertically extending grooves and the frame has a plurality of spaced vertically extending members for slidably mating with the grooves. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the restraining means comprises a holding member pivotably mounted on the frame and movable between one position corresponding to the first condition of the restraining means and another position corresponding to the second condition of the restraining means, and the actuation means comprises a hydraulic cylinder and rod assembly connected to the frame, the assembly being linearly operable to extend the rod between inner and outer positions and a lever pivotably mounted to the frame for moving the socket member to the first and second conditions and the holding member to the positions corresponding to the first and second conditions in response to the extension of the rod between the inner and outer positions. 7. The system of claim 2, wherein the connecting means further comprises a pin extending from the body and spaced from the nipple of the end effector and a seizing mechanism extending from the robot arm and spaced from the socket member of the arm, the seizing member being operative for seizing the pin to fixedly attach the end effector to the arm and for releasing the pin to detach the arm from the end effector. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the seizing mechanism includes a cavity for slidably receiving the pin, a flexible sleeve in the cavity for surrounding the pin and a plenum surrounding the sleeve for containing fluid, and the arm further comprises hydraulic means for transmitting fluid to the plenum to urge the sleeve into seizing engagement with the pin and for releasing the pressure to release the pin. 9. The system of claim 8, further comprising control means for controlling the hydraulic means of the arm to release the pin and operating the connecting means and the restraining means to their respective first conditions to detach the robot arm from the end effector with the end effector remaining in the predetermined orientation on the fixture. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the control means further comprises means for controlling the hydraulic means of the arm to seize the pin and operating the connecting means and the restraining means to their respective second conditions to attach the robot arm to the end effector, and for operating the restraining means to the second condition to permit the removal by the arm of the end effector from the fixture. 11. A robot end effector exchange system, comprising: a movable robot arm; an end effector including a body and a tool mechanism carried by the body; hydraulic means in the body for operating the tool mechanism; a pin extending from the end effector body and a seizing mechanism extending from the robot arm, the seizing mechanism being operative for seizing the pin to fixedly attach the end effector to the arm and for releasing the pin to detach the arm from the end effector; a socket member extending from the robot arm and a nipple member extending from the end effector, the socket member being operable to a first condition to engage the nipple member to form a fluid tight coupling between the arm and the tool mechanism and operable to a second condition to disengage from the nipple member for permitting the detachment of the robot arm from the end effector; a fixture for supportably receiving the end effector in a predetermined orientation at times when the end effector is attached to the robot arm; a holding member pivotably mounted on the frame and movable between one position corresponding to a first condition for holding the end effector in the predetermined orientation on the fixture at times when the socket member is operated to either the first or second condition and another position corresponding to a second condition for permitting the removal by the arm of the end effector from the frame; a hydraulic cylinder and rod assembly connected to the frame with the assembly being linearly operable to extend the rod between inner and outer positions; and a lever pivotably mounted to the frame for moving the socket member to the first and second conditions and for moving the holding member to the positions corresponding to the first and second conditions in response to the extension of the rod between the inner and outer conditions. 12. A robot end effector storage and retrieval apparatus for use with a movable robot arm releasably connected to the end effector, the robot arm and end effector each including connecting means operable to a first condition for permitting the detachment of the robot arm from the end effector and operable to a second condition for attaching the end effector to the robot arm, the apparatus comprising: a fixture for supportably receiving the end effector in a predetermined orientation at times when the end effector is attached to the robot arm; restraining means on the fixture operable to a first condition for holding the end effector in the predetermined orientation on the fixture at times when the connecting means is operated to either the first and second condition and operable to a second condition for permitting the removal by the arm of the end effector from the fixture; and actuation means on the fixture for selectively operating the connecting means and the restraining means to the first and second conditions. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the fixture comprises a frame configured to receive the end effector in the predetermined orientation, and the body of the end effector is configured for mating with the frame of the fixture. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the restraining means comprises a holding member pivotably mounted on the frame and movable between one position corresponding to the first condition of the restraining means and another position corresponding to the second condition of the restraining means, and the actuation means comprises a hydraulic cylinder and rod assembly connected to the frame and being linearly operable to extend the rod between inner and outer positions and a lever pivotably mounted to the frame for moving the connecting means to the first and second conditions and the holding member to the positions corresponding to the first and second conditions in response to the extension of the rod between the inner and outer positions. 15. A robot end effector for use with a movable robot arm having a fluid coupling mechanism for transmitting hydraulic fluid and a seizing mechanism spaced from the fluid coupling mechanism for releasably connecting the end effector to the arm in an operative relationship and a support fixture having a restraining means for holding the end effector in a predetermined orientation on the fixture during attachment and detachment of the robot arm and the end effector, the end effector comprising: a body configured for mating with the fixture in the predetermined orientation; a tool mechanism carried by the body; hydraulic means in the body responsive to fluid pressure for operating the tool mechanism; first means on the body for physically engaging the coupling mechanism of the arm to form a fluid tight coupling between the arm and the hydraulic means in the body; and second means on the body spaced from the first means for physically engaging the seizing mechanism of the arm to fixedly attach the end effector to the arm. 16. The end effector of claim 15, wherein the first means comprises a nipple member extending from the body and the second means comprises a pin extending from the body, wherein the coupling mechanism comprises a socket member being operable to one condition to engage the nipple member in a fluid tight relationship and to another condition to disengage from the nipple member for permitting the detachment of the robot arm from the end effector, and wherein the seizing mechanism being operative for seizing the pin to fixedly attach the end effector to the arm and for releasing the pin to detach the arm from the end effector. 17. The end effector of claim 16, wherein the body has means for cooperating with the restraining means of the fixture to hold the end effector in the predetermined orientation. 18. The end effector of claim 17, wherein the means on the body for cooperating includes a surface for engagement with the restraining means. 