An improved robotic manipulator of the type having a plurality of serially-connected drive shafts and a mounting surface affixed to one end thereof. The manipulator includes a first shaft rotatable about a first axis coincident with one ordinate of a mutually perpendicualr triordinate system and a first housing rotatable about that first axis, a second shaft rotatably mounted to said first shaft for rotation about a second axis obliquely oriented with respect to said first axis, and a second housing rotatable on the first housing about a second axis. Rotational movement is imparted to the second shaft about the second axis in accordance with rotational movement of a shaft rotatable about the first axis. A mounting surface has a centerline angularly oriented with respect to the second shaft, and a third shaft upon which the mounting surface is attached is rotatable about a third axis angularly oriented with respect to the second axis. An axis bearing cylinder is substantially immovably mounted on the second housing parallel to the second axis, with such axis bearing cylinder extending partially inwardly into the first housing and providing support for a gear cluster arrangement substantially independent support for a gear cluster arrangement produces a stiffer drive train, helps control backlash, and simplifies assembly.
Claims I claim: 1. An improved robotic manipulator of the type having a plurality of serially connected drive shafts and a mounting surface affixed to one end thereof, said manipulator including a first shaft rotatable about a first axis coincident with one ordinant of a mutually perpendicular triordinant system and a first housing rotatable about said first axis, a second shaft rotatably mounted to said first shaft for rotation about a second axis obliquely oriented with respect to said first axis and a second housing rotatable on said first housing about said second axis, means for imparting rotational movement to said second shaft about the second axis in accordance to rotational movement of a shaft rotatable about said first axis, the mounting surface having a centerline angularly oriented with respect to said second shaft, and a third shaft upon which said mounting surface is attached, said third shaft being rotatable about a third axis angularly oriented with respect to said second axis, wherein the improvement comprises: an axis bearing cylinder substantially immovably mounted parallel to said second axis, said axis bearing cylinder having a first end mounted on said second housing and a second end extending partially inwardly into said first housing and said bearing cylinder being cantilever mounted to provide sole support, independent of said first housing means, for a gear cluster arrangement for transferring rotational input to said third shaft. 2. The robotic manipulator of claim 1, wherein said first and second housings are generally hemispherical in conformation, and wherein said axis bearing cylinder is substantially immovably connected to said rotatable hemispherical housing concentrically with said second axis, said axis bearing cylinder extending only partially into the resulting enclosed sphere formed by said first and second hemispherical housings for support of said gear cluster arrangement therewithin. 3. The robotic manipulator of claim 2, wherein said mounting surface is attached to said rotatable hemispherical housing, and wherein rotational input is provided to said third shaft by said gear cluster, said gear cluster being rotatably mounted on said axis bearing cylinder for rotational interaction with said third shaft. 4. The robotic manipulator of claim 3, wherein said third shaft and said gear cluster arrangement can be preassembled within the rotatable hemispherical housing, with the interacting gear meshes between such parts being preset independent of said stationary housing. 5. The robotic manipulator of claim 1, wherein said mounting surface is attached to said rotatable hemispherical housing, and wherein rotational input is provided to said third shaft by said gear cluster, said gear cluster being rotatably mounted on said axis bearing cylinder for rotational interaction with said third shaft. 6. The robotic manipulator of claim 5, wherein said third shaft and said gear cluster arrangement can be preassembled within the rotatable hemispherical housing, with the interacting gear meshes between such parts being preset independent of said stationary housing. 7. The robotic manipulator of claim 1, wherein said axis bearing cylinder depends interiorly from said rotatable housing, the length of said axis bearing cylinder being sufficient to extend substantially completely across the interior of the resulting interior space formed by said stationary and rotatable housings. 8. The robotic manipulator of claim 7, wherein said axis bearing cylinder is substantially hollow, thereby forming an effective conduit through said resulting interior space formed by the first and second housings, said conduit being available to route various power and supply lines through said sphere to said mounting surface. 9. An improved robotic manipulator of the type having a plurality of serially connected drive shafts and a mounting surface affixed to one end thereof, said manipulator including a first shaft rotatable about a first axis coincident with one ordinant of a mutually perpendicular triordinant system, a second shaft rotatably mounted to said first shaft for rotation about a second axis obliquely oriented with respect to said first axis, means for imparting rotational movement to said second shaft about the second axis in accordance to rotational movement of a shaft rotatable about said first axis, a mounting surface having a centerline angularly oriented with respect to said second shaft, and a third shaft upon which said mounting surface is attached, said third shaft being rotatable about a third axis angularly oriented with respect to said second axis, wherein the improvement comprises: (a) a stationary housing located adjacent said end of said serially connected drive shafts; (b) a rotatable housing corresponding to said stationary housing and being rotatably affixed thereto, said rotatable housing being rotatable relative said stationary housing about said second axis, said third shaft being rotatably mounted on said rotatable housing; and (c) an axis bearing cylinder substantially immovably cantilever mounted parallel to said second axis, on said rotatable housing, said axis bearing cylinder extending partially inwardly into said stationary housing and said bearing cylinder being cantilever mounted to provide sole support, independent of said stationary housing, for a gear cluster arrangement transferring rotational input to said third shaft. 10. The robotic manipulator of claim 9, wherein said mounting surface is attached to said rotatable housing, and wherein rotational input is provided to said third shaft by said gear cluster arrangement, said gear cluster being rotatably mounted on said axis bearing cylinder for rotational interaction with said third shaft. 11. The robotic manipulator of claim 10, wherein said axis bearing cylinder depends interiorly from said rotatable housing, the length of said axis bearing cylinder being sufficient to extend substantially complete across the interior of the resulting interior space formed by said stationary and rotatable housings. 12. The robotic manipulator of claim 11, wherein said axis bearing cylinder is substantially hollow, thereby forming an effective conduit through said resulting interior space formed by the housings, said conduit being available to route various power and supply lines through said sphere to said mounting surface. 13. The robotic manipulator of claim 10, wherein said third shaft and said gear cluster arrangement can be preassembled within the rotatable housing, with the interacting gear meshes between such parts being preset independent of said stationary housing. 14. The robotic manipulator of claim 9, wherein said third shaft and said gear cluster arrangement can be preassembled within the rotatable housing, with the interacting gear meshes between such parts being preset independent of said stationary housing. 15. An improved robotic manipulator of the type having a plurality of serially connected drive shafts and a mounting surface affixed to the distal end thereof, said manipulator including a first shaft rotatable about a first axis coincident with one ordinant of a mutually perpendicular triordinant system, a second shaft rotatably mounted to said first shaft for rotation about a second axis obliquely oriented with respect to said first axis, means for imparting rotational movement to said second shaft about the second axis in accordance to rotational movement of a shaft rotatable about said first axis, a mounting surface having a centerline angularly oriented with respect to said second shaft, and a third shaft upon which said mounting surface is attached, said third shaft being rotatable about a third axis angularly oriented with respect to said second axis, wherein the improvement comprises: (a) a substantially spherical wrist joint located adjacent the distal end of said drive shafts, said wrist joint further comprising a stationary, substantially hemispherical housing and a rotatable, substantially hemispherical housing which is to be rotatably affixed to said stationary housing; (b) said mounting surface being affixed to said rotatable housing and said third shaft being rotatably mounted on said rotatable housing; and (c) an axis bearing cylinder substantially immovably cantilever mounted, concentric with said second axis, on said rotatable housing, said axis bearing cylinder extending partially inwardly into said stationary housing and said bearing cylinder being cantilever mounted to provide sole support, independent of said stationary housing for a gear cluster arrangement transferring rotational input to said third shaft. 16. The robotic manipulator of claim 15, wherein said axis bearing cylinder depends interiorly from said rotatable hemispherical housing, the length of said axis bearing cylinder being sufficient to extend substantially across the interior of the resulting sphere formed by said stationary and rotatable hemispherical housings. 17. The robotic manipulator of claim 16, wherein said axis bearing is substantially hollow, thereby forming an effective conduit through said resulting sphere formed by the hemispherical housings, said conduit available to route various power and supply lines through said sphere to said mounting surface. 18. The robotic manipulator of claim 16, wherein said third shaft and said gear cluster arrangement can be preassembled within the rotatable hemispherical housing, with the interacting gear meshes between such parts being preset independent of said stationary housing. 19. The robotic manipulator of claim 15, wherein said third shaft and said gear cluster arrangement can be preassembled within the rotatable hemispherical housing, with the interacting gear meshes between such parts being preset independent of said stationary housing. 