An overlaid switching network is derived by overlaying perpendicularly one multistage interconnection network with a second multistage interconnection network. The new network is formed by placing a switching element corresponding to the position of switching elements in either multistage interconnection network. Each switching element in the overlaid network has the ports defined by the two multistage interconnection networks as does its interconnection networks. A special case occurs when the number of rows and columns of the first multistage interconnection network is the number of columns and rows of the second multistage interconnection network, respectively. The overlaid switching networks also inherit their upgradeability from the multistage interconnection networks from which they are derived, such as in the case of a redundant blocking compensated cyclic group multistage network.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A switching network comprising: an array of switching elements, said array of switching elements comprising R rows and C columns, wherein each switching element belongs to a row and a column; a first plurality of interconnection networks wherein each interconnection network in the first plurality of interconnection networks connects switching elements in adjacent rows belonging to the array of switching elements and each interconnection network in the first plurality of interconnection networks has a topology matching a topology of an interstage interconnection network within a first multistage interconnection network architecture; and a second plurality of interconnection networks wherein each interconnection network in the second plurality of interconnection networks connects switching elements in adjacent columns belonging to the array of switching elements and each interconnection network in the second plurality of interconnection networks has a topology matching a topology of an interstage interconnection network within a second multistage interconnection network architecture, wherein R and C are positive integers and the first plurality of interconnection networks and the second plurality of interconnection networks route traffic through the switching network to reduce overall latency. 2. The switching network of claim 1, wherein the first multistage interconnection network architecture is a redundant blocking compensated cyclic group (RBCCG) multistage network. 3. The switching network of claim 1, wherein the second multistage interconnection network architecture is an RBCCG multistage network. 4. The switching network of claim 1, wherein each switching element comprises a left port, a right port, a top port and bottom port wherein each interconnection network in the first plurality of interconnection networks connects top ports comprising the top port of switching elements of a first row to bottom ports comprising the bottom ports of switching elements in a second row, where the first row and second row are adjacent, wherein each interconnection network in the first plurality of interconnection networks connects right ports comprising the right port of switching elements of a first column to left ports comprising left ports of the switching elements in a second column, where the first and second column are adjacent. 5. A method of routing traffic between a first switching element and a destination switching element said method comprising: receiving traffic by the first switching element of a RBCCG network which is located at row number k and column number s of the RBCCG network; determining a column number d of the destination switching element of RBCCG network which is connected to an external port; calculating a port number p of the destination switching element of the RBCCG network; and forwarding the traffic to the port number p of the destination switching element, wherein p equals an integer quotient of ((d-sF.sup.H-k) mod W+iW) divided by F.sup.H-k-1 and 0.ltoreq.p<F, i is greater than equal to zero and less that F, the RBCCG network has a number of rows of W switching elements with H+1 equal to the number of rows; each switching element of the RBCCG network has a fanout with F equal to the fanout; and k, s, d are non-negative integers and F, W and Hare positive integers. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein calculating comprises: selecting a value for i; determining the integer quotient of ((d-sF.sup.H-k) mod W+iW) divided by F.sup.H-k-1; repeating the selecting and determining steps until the integer quotient is less than F; assigning the integer quotient top if the integer quotient is less than F. 