A fabrication method of strengthening metallic alloys by composite technology has been developed by mixing steel shots or aggregates with conventional alloys, thus preventing cold flow or creep. Preventing creep is advantageous in thermal plugs which must withstand fluid pressure without leakage until subjected to dangerous temperatures such as caused by fire. The matrix alloy primarily consists of some or all of copper, magnesium, bismuth, tin, lead, cadmium, and indium and the particle material is preferably iron or steel. New alloys exhibit a higher strength against a hydrostatic gas pressure than that of conventional matrix phase containing no reinforcing particles, while maintaining the melting temperature of new alloys in the same range of conventional unreinforced matrix alloy. The mixing of steel particles with the matrix is achieved by employing a flux such as ammonium chloride. Other reinforcible matrix alloys include tin-based, lead-based, copper-based, zinc-based, cadmium-based, indium-based, bismuth-based, magnesium-based, and aluminum-based alloys used for dynamic and structural parts requiring strength and creep resistance. Ferroaluminum shots are comprised primarily of iron and aluminum and they are light, relatively nonreactive with zinc, and bondable to aforementioned matrix alloys by using inorganic acid-based fluxes of zinc chloride, ammonium chloride, a mixture of chlorides, or a mixture of chlorides and fluorides. Other fluxes such as organic acid-based chemicals work as a cleaning agent when they can clean surface oxides of both the matrix alloy and reinforcing shots. Materials for alternative reinforcement include conventional steel or iron shots coated with sodium nitrite, ferroaluminum shots coated with sodium nitrite, nickel, copper, their base alloys refractory metals, copper or nickel-coated metals, copper or nickel-coated plastics, and copper or nickel-coated ceramics.
Claims We claim: 1. A creep-resistant alloy composite for casting static and dynamic parts, said alloy being flowable in the molten state, said alloy consisting essentially of: (a) first component of matrix alloy phase which is bondable to reinforcing shots, said matrix alloy being bismuth-based alloy; and (b) a second component of reinforcing shots bondable to said matrix alloy, said shots being flowable with said alloy when said alloy is in the molten state. 2. The alloy of claim 1 further containing a third element of nonspherical aggregates, the content of said aggregates being small enough not to degrade the melt-flowability and castability of said composite. 3. The alloy composite of claim 1 wherein said shots are selected from the group consisting of steel, iron, copper, nickel, cobalt, refractory metals, their base alloys, copper or nickel-coated ceramics, copper or nickel-coated plastics, copper or nickel-coated metals, and plastics, ceramics, or metals coated with bondable metallic layer other than copper or nickel. 4. An alloy composite for casting for static and dynamic parts, said alloy being flowable in the molten state, said alloy consisting essentially of: (a) a first component matrix alloy phase selected from the group consisting of bismuth-based alloy, tin-based alloy, and lead-based alloy, and (b) a second component of reinforcing aggregates of nonspherical shape which are bondable to said matrix alloy, said aggregates being flowable with said alloy in its molten state, the content of said aggregates being larger than about 20 vol. %. 5. The alloy composite as claimed in claim 4 which has been prepared by mixing said first component with said second component by using a flux. 6. The alloy composite as claimed in claim 4 wherein said aggregates are made bondable to the matrix alloy by the presence of bondable metallic coating on said aggregates. 7. The alloy composite as claimed in claim 4 wherein said aggregates have been mixed with said matrix alloy without any flux. 8. The alloy composite of claim 4 comprised of the matrix alloy phase of claim 4 and a reinforcing phase, said reinforcing phase consisting of a major amount of nonspherical aggregates of claim 3 and a minor amount of spherical shots, the content of said reinforcing phase being greater than about 20 vol. %. 9. The alloy of claim 4, wherein said aggregates are selected from the group consisting of steel, iron, copper, nickel, cobalt, refractory metals, their base alloys, copper or nickel-coated ceramics, copper or nickel-coated plastics, copper or nickel-coated metals, and any strong plastics, ceramics, or metals coated with bondable metallic layer other than copper or nickel. 10. A composite alloy having a good melt-flowability and creep resistance, said composite alloy comprising a fusible matrix alloy and reinforcing rounded or spherical shots with reinforcing particles of nonspherical geometry, said matrix alloy including one or more of bismuth, tin, lead, cadmium, antimony, silver, and indium, said shots and reinforcing particles being mixed with and bonded to said matrix alloy, said shots and reinforcing particles flowing with the alloy when said alloy is in the molten state, the content of said shots and particles being greater than about 20 vol. %. 11. The alloy of claim 10 wherein said shots and reinforcing particles are selected from the group consisting of steel, iron, copper, nickel, cobalt, refractory metals, their base alloys, copper or nickel-coated ceramics, copper or nickel-coated plastics, copper or nickel-coated metals, and any strong plastics, ceramics, or metals coated with bondable metallic layer other than copper or nickel. 12. The alloy of claim 3, claim 11, or claim 9 wherein the particles, shots or aggregates are selected from the group consisting of iron and nickel of a size of larger than about 120 um. 13. A composite alloy comprised of matrix alloy phase of claim 10 and reinforcing agent, said reinforcing agent consisting of a major amount of spherical shots and a minor amount of nonspherical reinforcing phase, the content of said shots being greater than about 20 vol. %. 14. The composite alloy of claim 13, wherein said shots and nonspherical reinforcing phase are selected from the group consisting of steel, iron, copper, nickel, cobalt, refractory metals, their base alloys, copper or nickel-coated ceramics, copper or nickel-coated plastics, copper or nickel-coated metals, and any strong/insoluble plastics, or metals coated with bondable metallic layer other than copper or nickel. 15. The alloy of claim 14, wherein the shots or nonspherical phase are selected from the group consisting of iron and nickel of a size of greater than about 120 .mu.m. 16. The alloy of claim 13 wherein said shots and reinforcing phase are made bondable to said matrix alloy by using a flux. 17. The alloy of claim 13, wherein said shots and reinforcing phase are made bondable to said matrix alloy without using a flux. 18. The alloy of claim 10, wherein said shots and particles are made bondable to said matrix alloy by the presence of bondable coating on said shots and particles. 19. The alloy of claim 10, wherein said shots and particles are made bondable to said matrix alloy by using a flux selected from the group consisting of: (1) Inorganic acid fluxes, and (2) Organic acid-based fluxes. 20. The alloy of claim 10, wherein said shots and particles are made bondable to said matrix alloy without using a flux. 