The invention relates to a device that comprises a tool holder that can be adjusted in an x-axis, a y-axis which is perpendicular thereto, and a z-axis that is perpendicular both to the x-axis and the y-axis and that can be pivoted about the z-axis. A dispense head for solid material is mounted on the tool holder as the tool. Two scales are disposed on the dispense head for solid material, said scales weighing the material which is or is to be delivered by the dispense head for solid material. The inventive design with two scales directly mounted on the dispense head for solid material allows for weighing of the material without the dispense head for solid material or the material having to be placed on separate scales.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device, comprising: a movement apparatus; a displaceable tool holder, the tool holder being operatively coupled with respect to the movement apparatus so that the tool holder is displaceable along an x axis or a z axis, the z axis being perpendicular to the x axis; a tool in the form of a metering head that is secured to the tool holder, the tool being configured to carry a variable amount of a substance; and a displaceable balance that is configured to weigh variable amounts of the substance while being carried by the tool at a plurality of different locations, the displaceable balance being operatively coupled to the tool holder so that the displaceable balance moves with the tool holder and is available continuously for accurate measurement independently of the position of the tool holder. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the substance can be dispensed or taken up by a metering means which is also weighed by the balance. 3. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the metering head carries with it all the substance which is to be dispensed. 4. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool is releasably attached to the tool holder. 5. The device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the metering means is arranged on the balance and is releasably attached to the balance. 6. The device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the metering means has a metering unit and a drive unit, the metering unit further including a storage vessel, wherein the metering unit is releasably attached to the drive unit. 7. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the balance bears a vessel for temporarily holding substance which is to be dispensed, which vessel is configured to be completely emptied. 8. The device as claimed in claim 7, further including a second balance, the second balance bearing the vessel for temporarily holding substance which is to be dispensed, and being used to measure the weight of substance to be dispensed which is being temporarily held, while the first balance is adapted to measure the weight of substance which has not yet been dispensed to the vessel for temporarily holding substance which is to be dispensed. 9. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool holder can rotate about the z axis. 10. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool is a screw metering head further including a screw disposed within a hollow tube and configured to rotate within the tube, said tube being at least partially open at its lower end and configured to take up and dispense substance as the screw rotates. 11. The device as claimed in claim 10, wherein the lower open end of the tube is closed off by a diaphragm having holes, and a ram operatively coupled to the screw configured to press substance through the diaphragm as the screw rotates when substance is being dispensed. 12. The device as claimed in claim 11, further including a stripper located by the diaphragm configured to periodically strip off substance adhering to the diaphragm. 13. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool is a capsule-transporting head configured to pick up and release a capsule. 14. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool is a matrix-capsule-transporting head configured to pick up and release either individually, together or in groups, the capsules arranged in the form of a matrix. 15. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool is a capsule-handling head configured to pick up at least one capsule, open the capsule in the tool, and mix in the tool the contents of the capsule with another substance. 16. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool is a matrix-capsule-handling head configured to pick up a plurality of capsules, open the capsules in the tool, and mix in the tool the contents of any capsule with another substance, said capsules arranged in the form of a matrix. 17. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool is a capsule-dispensing head adapted to store a plurality of capsules, said dispensing head configured to dispense said capsules individually, together or in groups. 18. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool is a needle head with a hollow needle, a multi-needle head with a plurality of hollow needles or a solids-metering head. 19. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool is a combination head having at least two tool parts, one of the tool parts being a needle head, multi-needle head, capsule-transporting head, matrix-capsule-transporting head, capsule-handling head, matrix-capsule-handling head, capsule-dispensing head, screw metering head or solids-metering head. 20. The device as claimed claim 1, further including a camera arranged on the tool holder configured to film an area below the tool holder; a control computer having an image-processing unit configured to evaluate images filmed by the camera, and change a tool based on the evaluation of the images. 21. The device as claimed in claim 1, further including an infrared analysis unit arranged on the tool holder having an infrared transmitter configured to radiate infrared waves into an area below the tool holder; an infrared sensor configured to measure reflected infrared waves; and a control computer having a measured-value-processing unit to evaluate the reflected infrared waves measured by the infrared sensor, the control computer configured to change a tool and/or change a quantity of substance to be metered, based on the evaluation of the reflected waves. 22. The device as claimed in claim 1, further including tool holder for attaching another tool which can be displaced along an x axis and a z axis, which is perpendicular to the x axis. 23. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool holder can be displaced along both the x and z axes. 24. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tool holder is configured to be displaced along a y axis, the y axis being perpendicular to the x axis and to the z axis. 25. A method for weighing out a desired variable quantity of a substance, comprising the steps of: a) providing a movement apparatus; a displaceable tool holder, the tool holder being operatively coupled with respect to the movement apparatus so that the tool holder is displaceable along an x axis or a z axis, the z axis being perpendicular to the x axis; a tool in the form of a metering head that is secured to the tool holder, the tool being configured to carry a variable amount of a substance; and a displaceable balance that is configured to weigh variable amounts of the substance while being carried by the tool at a plurality of different locations, the displaceable balance being operatively coupled to the tool holder so that the displaceable balance moves with the tool holder and is available continuously for accurate measurement independently of the position of the tool holder; b) using the tool to take up an amount of the substance; c) weighing the substance taken up; d) calculating a difference between the weighed value obtained and a desired set value; e) at least partially discharging the substance taken up or taking up additional substance by the tool if said difference lies outside a range of a desired level of accuracy; and f) repeating steps c) to e) until the difference is equal to zero within the range of the desired level of accuracy. 26. A method to dispense a desired variable quantity of a substance, comprising the steps of: a) providing a movement apparatus; a displaceable tool holder, the tool holder being operatively coupled with respect to the movement apparatus so that the tool holder is displaceable along an x axis or a z axis, the z axis being perpendicular to the x axis; a tool in the form of a metering head that is secured to the tool holder, the tool being configured to carry a variable amount of a substance; and a displaceable balance that is configured to weigh variable amounts of the substance while being carried by the tool at a plurality of different locations, the displaceable balance being operatively coupled to the tool holder so that the displaceable balance moves with the tool holder and is available continuously for accurate measurement independently of the position of the tool holder; wherein the balance bears a vessel for temporarily holding the substance which is to be dispensed, which vessel can be completely emptied; b) placing a quantity of substance into the vessel for temporarily holding the substance to be dispensed; c) weighing the substance in the vessel; d) calculating a difference between the weighed value obtained and a desired set value; e) adding additional substance or at least partially emptying the vessel at a location other than an intended metering location and then adding substance again, if the difference lies outside a range of a desired level of accuracy; and f) repeating steps c) to e) until the difference is equal to zero within the range of the desired level of accuracy; and g) dispensing any substance which is present in the vessel until the vessel is completely emptied. 27. A method to select a capsule with a desired quantity of substance, comprising the steps of: a) providing a movement apparatus; a displaceable tool holder, the tool holder being operatively coupled with respect to the movement apparatus so that the tool holder is displaceable along an x axis or a z axis, the z axis being perpendicular to the x axis; a tool in the form of a metering head that is secured to the tool holder, the tool being configured to carry a variable amount of a substance; and a displaceable balance that is configured to weigh variable amounts of the substance while being carried by the tool at a plurality of different locations, the displaceable balance being operatively coupled to the tool holder so that the displaceable balance moves with the tool holder and is available continuously for accurate measurement independently of the position of the tool holder; wherein the balance is configured to weigh capsules picked up by the tool; b) using the tool to pick up a capsule containing the substance; c) weighing the capsule with the substance; d) calculating a difference between the weighed value obtained and a desired set value; e) releasing the capsule from the tool and picking up a new capsule containing a substance, if the difference lies outside a range of a desired level of accuracy; and f) repeating steps c) to e) until the difference is equal to zero within the range of the desired level of accuracy. 28. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the displaceable balance is releasably attached to the tool holder. 