A robotic cleaning apparatus is disclosed. The apparatus includes an automatically controlled cleaning machine and coded reflective targets used to provide information to the cleaning machine for positioning it along desired cleaning paths. The apparatus determines it position on a real time basis, particularly in the case of obstacles that are encountered by the cleaning machine during its cleaning operation. Hardware and software are provided for controlling movement of the cleaning machine relative to side and end walls of the floor surface section being cleaned, as well as controlling the functions of cleaning equipment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated cleaning apparatus, comprising: cleaning means for cleaning a floor surface section; housing mean-s connected to said cleaning means and having a length, a width and a height with one of (a) said length and height and (b) said width and height defining a substantially planar side to provide a non-cylindrical enclosure; hardware navigation means for obtaining information relating to the position of at least one of said housing means and said cleaning means; control means contained substantially only by said housing means for controlling movement of said housing means and the operation of said cleaning means, said control means including: first means for determining position related information using said information from said hardware navigation means; second means for avoiding obstacles in the path of said housing means and said cleaning means, wherein said second means is used in avoiding predetermined obstacles in the path of said housing means and said cleaning means, said second means also used in avoiding obstacles whose presence is determined during movement of said housing means and said cleaning means while the floor surface area is being cleaned; third means for detecting whether obstacles are present to continued movement of said housing means and said cleaning means while the floor surface area is being cleaned; driving means for moving said housing means and said cleaning means, said driving means being connected to said housing means and including first and second driven wheels positioned on opposite sides of said housing means along said length thereof. 2. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said cleaning means includes scrubber means located at a front end of said housing means and squeegee means located at a back end of said housing means and wherein said squeegee means has a length greater than said width of said housing means. 3. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said hardware navigation means includes a plurality of reflective targets for providing position information and a laser scanning assembly for transmitting light to said targets and for receiving reflected light from said targets. 4. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 3, wherein: said first means includes software means for using information from said targets to determine the current position of said housing means. 5. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 3, further including: fifth means for directing said housing means to a second floor surface section upon completion of the cleaning of a first floor surface area, wherein said housing means automatically traverses a linking path between said first and second cleaning section and along which linking path cleaning functions are discontinued, the second floor surface section having a combination of targets different from the combination of targets of the first floor surface section. 6. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said second means includes means for taking into account at least one of said length and said width in moving said housing means and said cleaning means to circumvent an obstacle when said second means detects an obstacle in the path of said housing means and said cleaning means. 7. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 6, wherein: said second means includes means for taking into account the size of said cleaning means to avoid an obstacle when an obstacle is detected by said second means and wherein at least one dimension of said cleaning means is different from said housing means. 8. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said second means includes means for checking whether at least one of said housing means and said cleaning means is within a predetermined distance from a first boundary of the floor surface area and for stopping movement of said housing means and said cleaning means when said at least one thereof is within said predetermined distance. 9. An apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein: said distance is about three feet. 10. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said second means includes means for checking whether at least one of said housing means and said cleaning means is within a predetermined distance from a second boundary of the floor surface section and for determining that said housing means and said cleaning means are to be moved gradually in a direction non-parallel to the current cleaning path thereof, said predetermined distance being greater than the distance at which cleaning functions are discontinued. 11. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 10, wherein: said predetermine distance is about 10 feet. 12. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 10, wherein: said gradual movement depends upon said housing means and said cleaning means being adjacent to a first boundary of the floor surface area during a first cleaning path taken by said housing means and said cleaning means. 13. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said second means includes means for determining whether one of said housing means and said cleaning means has reached at least a first predetermined distance from the end of a path along which said housing means and said cleaning means is moving, said first means further including means for discontinuing predetermined cleaning functions when said first predetermined distance is reached. 14. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 13, wherein: said predetermined cleaning functions include application of a liquid solution to the floor and raising of scrubber means. 15. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 14, wherein: said predetermined distance at which application of solution is discontinued is about 5 feet from the end of the path along which said housing means and said cleaning means is moving and said predetermined distance at which said scrubber means is raised is substantially at the end of the path. 16. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said third means includes upward and forward directed sensors for providing information to said control means wherein, when said upward sensor indicates a vertically extending obstacle within a predetermined distance from the floor surface area but said forward sensor indicates no obstacle within its range of detection, movement of said housing means is automatically stopped. 17. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said third means includes means for sensing a change in elevation of the floor surface area along which said housing means and said clearing means move. 18. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 17, wherein: said means for sensing includes a transmitter for transmitting infrared waves in front of said housing means and a receiver for receiving reflected waves using the floor surface section wherein the lack of a proper reflected wave indicates a change in elevation of the floor surface area. 19. An apparatus, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said control means further includes means for determining the magnitude of an increment of movement in a direction substantially perpendicular to the direction of movement of said housing means and said cleaning means along a cleaning path during the cleaning operation, said increment resulting in overlap of floor surface area being cleaned between successive paths of cleaning with the amount of overlap depending upon at least the size of the floor surface section and the size of said cleaning means. 20. A method for controlling an automated cleaning machine, comprising: providing a cleaning machine with first and second driven wheels, said cleaning machine including a front end and a rear end and having a length, a width and a height with said length having a different dimension from said width, with said length, width and height defining at least a first planar side, and said cleaning machine further including cleaning equipment for movement along a floor surface section to be cleaned; allowing said cleaning machine to move without human operator intervention while the floor surface section is being cleaned but not permitting said cleaning machine to move in a substantially rearward direction; regulating cleaning functions associated with said cleaning equipment while moving said cleaning machine; identifying a current position of said cleaning machine while it is moving using targets and a laser scanning assembly; detecting whether an obstacle is in the path of said cleaning machine; determining whether an obstacle is avoidable whereby said cleaning continues to move, said step of determining includes taking into account at least one of said height and width of said cleaning machine in determining whether said rear end of said cleaning machine is able to avoid the obstacle and taking into account which direction said cleaning machine is to be moved when it is determined that the obstacle is avoidable; and controlling separately movement of each of said first and second wheels in avoiding the obstacle. 21. A method, as claimed in claim 20, wherein: said step of controlling to avoid an obstacle includes reducing the amount of rotation of one of said first and second wheels in comparison to the other of said first and second wheels wherein which of said first and second wheels that has reduced rotation in comparison to the other wheel is determined using the position of the obstacle relative to the path of said cleaning machine. 22. A method, as claimed in claim 20, wherein: said step of allowing includes automatically checking whether said cleaning machine is within a predetermined distance from a first boundary in the floor surface area being cleaned and said step of controlling includes stopping movement of said cleaning machine when an obstacle is in the path of said cleaning machine and said cleaning machine is within said predetermined distance 23. A method, as claimed in claim 20, wherein: said step of allowing includes determining automatically whether an end boundary is within at least a first predetermined distance from said cleaning machine and said step of regulating includes discontinuing at least a first cleaning function when said cleaning machine is within said predetermined distance of the end boundary. 24. A method, as claimed in claim 23, wherein: said first cleaning function includes at least one of scrubbing the floor surface section and supplying a solution and said step of regulating includes at least one of automatically discontinuing the supply of solution when said cleaning machine is within about five feet from the end wall and automatically raising scrubber means when said cleaning machine is adjacent to the end boundary. 25. A method, as claimed in claim 20, wherein said step of allowing includes: determining whether said cleaning machine is within a predetermined distance from an end wall in the path of said cleaning machine; determining whether said cleaning machine is within a predetermined distance of a side wall; causing said cleaning machine to turn in a substantially abrupt manner in which one wheel is held substantially fixed while another wheel rotates when said cleaning machine is not within said predetermined distance from the side wall and causing said cleaning machine to turn in a relatively gradual manner in which each of two wheels rotates when said cleaning machine is within said predetermined distance from the side wall, said gradual manner being sufficient to prevent said rear end of said cleaning machine from contacting the side wall. 26. A method, as claimed in claim 20, further comprising: directing automatically said cleaning machine to move between first and second cleaning sections wherein said cleaning machine discontinues cleaning operations in moving between the first and second cleaning sections and in which the second cleaning section has a combination of said targets different from the combination of said targets in the second cleaning section. 27. A method, as claimed in claim 20, wherein: said step of detecting includes using at least two sensors to check in at least two different directions in order to obtain information as to whether an obstacle is present that extends a predetermined distance from the floor surface section and movement of said cleaning machine is to be stopped due to the obstacle. 