A robotic manipulator for picking and placing data storage cassettes in an automated storage library. The manipulator has a pair of fingers, one finger being longer than the other. An eject bar is located between the fingers and has a tab for pushing a storage cassette into the seated operative position in an IBM 3480 type tape reader. The manipulator approaches the slot in the reader, supporting the data cassette on the long finger and holding it in place with the short finger. The short finger pivots to free the cassette and the eject bar pushes it into the reader. When the eject bar is clear of the long finger it pivots downwards so that the tab engages the top of the cassette and pushes it into the seated position in the reader.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic manipulator for transporting a data storage medium in an automated storage library comprising: a pair of fingers for gripping the data storage medium; an ejector having a bar at a proximate end movable in a first direction for pushing the data storage medium positioned between said fingers away from the robotic manipulator and into a first position in a data transfer device in the automated storage library; at least one tab extending outward from the bar of the ejector for engaging the data storage medium; and means for moving the ejector in a second direction for substantially causing the at least one tab to push the data storage medium downward into a second seated operative position of the data transfer device. 2. A robotic manipulator as in claim 1 wherein the ejector is disposed between the fingers with the at least one tab adjacent to either side of and substantially level with one of the fingers. 3. A robotic manipulator as in claim 1 wherein the ejector movement in the second direction is effected by a pivoting of the ejector. 4. A robotic manipulator as in claim 3 wherein one of the fingers is longer than the other finger. 5. A robotic manipulator as in claim 1 wherein the ejector movement in the first direction is effected pneumatically. 6. A robotic manipulator as in claim 5 wherein one of the fingers is longer than the other finger. 7. An automated storage library comprising: means for storing a plurality of data storage media; a data transfer device; and a robotic manipulator comprising: a pair of fingers for gripping one of the data storage media; an ejector extendable in a first direction for pushing the data storage medium positioned between the fingers away from the robotic manipulator into a first position in the data transfer device; at least one or more tabs extending from the ejector for engaging the data storage medium; and means for moving the ejector in a second direction, after extending the ejector in the first direction, for pushing the data storage medium downward into a second seated operative position in the data transfer device. 8. An automated storage library as in claim 7 wherein the ejector, in an unextended position, is disposed between the fingers with one tab adjacent to either side of and substantially level with one of the fingers. 9. An automated storage library as in claim 8 wherein movement in the second direction is effected by a pivoting of the ejector. 10. An automated storage library as in claim 9 wherein one of the fingers is longer than the other finger. 11. An automated storage library as in claim 7 wherein movement in the second direction is effected by a pivoting of the ejector. 12. An automated storage library as in claim 11 wherein one of the fingers is longer than the other finger. 13. An automated storage library comprising: means for storing a plurality of data storage media; a plurality of data transfer devices; and a robotic manipulator comprising: a pair of fingers for gripping one of the data storage media, one of the fingers longer than the other finger; an ejector disposed between the fingers and extendable in a first direction for pushing the data storage medium positioned between the fingers away from the robotic manipulator into a first position in one of the plurality of data transfer devices; at least one tab extending from the ejector for engaging the data storage medium, one tab located across form one finger and adjacent to either side of and substantially level with the other finger; and means effected by a pivoting of the ejector for moving the ejector in a second direction while the at least one tab is extended substantially beyond one of the fingers for pushing the data storage medium downward into a second seat operative position in the data transfer device. 14. A method for inserting data storage medium in a data transfer device included in an automated storage library comprising the steps of: extending an ejector in a first direction so that a bar located at an end of the ejector pushes the data storage medium into a first position in the data transfer device from a robotic gripper in the automated storage library; and moving the extended ejector in a second direction, downward from the first direction, so that a tab extending from the bar pushes the data storage medium into a second seated operative position in the data transfer device. 