A storage library is described that includes a shelf system adapted to support a number of tape cartridges. The storage library further includes a tape drive adapted to read and write data to and from tape cartridges. The storage library further possesses a temporary repository near the tape drive that is adapted to facilitate an exchange of a first tape cartridge intended to be loaded in the tape drive with a second tape cartridge ready to be removed from the tape drive with a single tape picker device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage library comprising: a temporary repository that is adapted to temporarily hold a first data cartridge after being ejected from a drive and prior to being disposed in a mobile magazine; a picker device arranged to move a second data cartridge from said mobile magazine to said drive when said first data cartridge is disposed in said temporary repository. 2. The data storage library of claim 1 wherein said mobile magazine possesses a plurality of slots wherein each slot is adapted to accommodate a data cartridge, said mobile magazine is portable and moved between said drive and a shelf system within said data storage library via a robotic transporter. 3. The data storage library of claim 1 wherein said second data cartridge resides in a first magazine slot in said mobile magazine prior to being moved to said temporary repository and said first data cartridge is disposed in said first magazine slot when disposed in said mobile magazine, said first magazine slot is identifiable by a second address associated with said second data cartridge when said second data cartridge is disposed therein but said first magazine slot is identifiable by a first address when said first data cartridge is disposed therein. 4. The data storage library of claim 3 wherein a map associating said first magazine slot with said second address is maintained by said data storage library. 5. The data storage library of claim 4 wherein a host computer identifies said first slot as said second address based on said map. 6. The data storage library of claim 1 wherein said temporary repository is not identifiable via an address by a host computer. 7. A data storage library arranged to perform a method, the method comprising: moving a second portable data cartridge from a second slot in a portable magazine to a data transfer device while a first portable data cartridge is retained in a temporary repository, prior to being retained in said temporary repository said first portable data cartridge was engaged in a cooperating relationship with said data transfer device; and disposing said first portable data cartridge device in said second slot after said moving step, said portable magazine is adapted to be moved between said data transfer device and a shelf system within said data storage library. 8. The data storage library of claim 7 further comprising moving said portable magazine from said shelf system within said data storage library to a position near said data transfer device. 9. The data storage library of claim 7 wherein said portable data cartridge is a tape cartridge or a drive cleaning cartridge and said data transfer device is a tape drive. 10. The data storage library of claim 7 further comprising: receiving a first set of instructions from a host computer to unload said first portable data cartridge from said data transfer device and return said first portable data cartridge to an associated slot addressed to correspond to said first portable data cartridge; responding to said host computer that said first set of instructions are complete, even though said first set of instructions have not been physically carried out; receiving a second set of instructions from said host computer to move said second portable data cartridge from said second slot and load said second portable data cartridge in a cooperating relationship with said data transfer device; transporting said second portable data cartridge near said data transfer device via a robotic transporter wherein said second portable data cartridge is disposed in said portable magazine; and transferring said first portable data cartridge from said data transfer device and disposing in said temporary repository before said moving step. 11. The data storage library of claim 10 wherein said steps are performed in the order presented. 12. The data storage library of claim 10 further comprising queuing said first and said second set of instructions in memory. 13. The library of claim 10 wherein said robotic transporter is controlled via a controller, the controller receives move instructions from a processor, the move instructions are maintained in a storage device, all of which are comprised by the storage library. 14. The data storage library of claim 7 further comprising remapping said second slot from an second address corresponding with said second portable data cartridge to a first address corresponding with said first portable data cartridge. 15. The data storage library of claim 14 wherein said first portable data cartridge is identified by a host computer via a logical map maintained by said data storage library that presents a location associated with said first address. 16. The data storage library of claim 7 wherein moving said second portable storage cartridge from said second slot to said data transfer device is accomplished via a cartridge picking device. 17. A storage library arranged to perform a method, the method comprising: receiving a first set of instructions from a host computer to unload a first data storage cartridge from a cartridge data transfer device and return the first data storage cartridge to a designated location in a shelf system; responding to the host computer that the first set of instructions are complete, even though the first set of instructions have not been physically carried out; receiving a second set of instructions from the host computer to move a second data storage cartridge from said shelf system and load said second data storage cartridge in the cartridge data transfer device; transporting the second data storage cartridge from the shelf system to a position where a picker device is capable of disposing the second data storage cartridge in the cartridge data transfer device, said second data storage cartridge is disposed in a magazine that accommodates a plurality of data storage cartridges; removing the first data storage cartridge from the cartridge data transfer device via said picker device and disposing the first data storage cartridge in a repository; loading the second data storage cartridge in the cartridge data transfer device; removing the first data storage cartridge from the repository; disposing said first data storage cartridge in said magazine; and transporting the magazine possessing the first data storage cartridge back to the shelf system. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said magazine possesses a plurality of slots that each have a logical address, each of said plurality of slots are arranged to accommodate one data storage cartridge, and wherein said first data storage cartridge is disposed in said magazine in a first slot associated with a first slot address but prior to said first slot being associated with said first slot address, said first slot was associated with a second slot address associated with said second data storage cartridge. 19. The method of claim 17 further comprising executing said first and said second set of instructions via a library interface, memory device, a processing device, a controller, a robotic transporter and a picker device. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein the repository is located within twelve inches of the cartridge data transfer device. 21. A library storage system comprising a means for replacing a first tape cartridge relating with a tape drive with a second tape cartridge using a robotic transporter and picker device that essentially makes a first move carrying the second tape cartridge disposed in a portable magazine from a shelf system to deliver to the tape drive and a second move returning the first tape cartridge when disposed in said portable magazine to the shelf system, the first move occurs before the second move. 22. A library storage system adapted to replace a first storage cartridge relating with a cartridge data transfer device with a second storage cartridge using a robotic transporter that essentially makes a first move carrying the second storage cartridge disposed in a magazine, adapted to support a plurality of storage cartridges, from a shelf system to deliver to the cartridge data transfer device and a second move, using the robotic transporter, returning the first storage cartridge disposed in said magazine to the shelf system, the first move occurs before the second move. 