A modified shape memory alloy fibers exhibits a rapid twitch response under timulation by an action potential such as the heating effect of an electromagnetic pulse; in particular the relaxation time of the twitch response is considerably shortened as compared with that of the unmodified fibers; the modification is achieved by simultaneous application of a stretching force and a short, powerful electromagnetic pulse effective to bring about contraction resulting from the shape memory and change material properties; this application is carried out a plurality of times.
Claims We claim: 1. An actuator element for generation of a working force comprising a modified elongate fiber of a shape memory alloy, said modified fiber being derived from an unmodified fiber, said unmodified fiber having been modified by being subjected a plurality of times to a short, very powerful electromagnetic pulse effective to cause contraction of the length of the unmodified fiber and change material properties while under a stretching force serving to elongate said length, said modified fiber exhibiting a twitch response under stimulation by an action potential, said twitch response comprising a contraction time and a relaxation time, said twitch response being rapid as compared with the twitch response of the unmodified fiber. 2. An actuator element according to claim 1, wherein said rapid twitch response is less than 40 ms when subjected to the action potential of an electromagnetic pulse. 3. An actuator element of claim 2, wherein said shape memory alloy is a Ni-Ti alloy and said fiber has a diameter of 0.01 to 10 mm. 4. An actuator element of claim 1, wherein said pulse has a current density of 400 to 4,000 MA/m.sup.2. 5. An actuator element of claim 1, wherein said pulse has a rate of current change of at least 200,000 A/sec. 6. An actuator element of claim 1, wherein said pulse has a current density of 400 to 4,000 MA/m.sup.2 and has a rate of current change of at least 200,000 A/sec. 7. An elongate fiber of a shape memory alloy modified by having been subjected a plurality of times to a short, powerful electromagnetic pulse effective to cause contraction of the length of the fiber and change material properties, while under a stretching force serving to elongate said length, wherein said pulse has a current density of 400 to 4000 MA/m.sup.2, and has a rate of current change of at least 200,000 A/sec. 8. An elongate fiber of claim 7, wherein said shape memory alloy is a Ni-Ti alloy and said fiber exhibits a rapid twitch response having a total contraction and relaxation time of less than 40 ms when subjected to an action potential of an electromagnetic pulse effective to heat said fiber to the shape memory state. 9. An elongate fiber of claim 8, having a diameter of 0.01 to 10 mm. 10. A motor unit for generation of a working force in response to stimulation by an action potential in an artificial muscle comprising; first and second opposed, spaced apart clamping means, at least one elongate actuator element comprising an elongate fiber of a shape memory alloy providing a plurality of lengths of fiber in side-by-side, generally parallel relationship extending between said spaced apart clamping means, said lengths being electrically insulated from each other and from said first clamping means, electrical connection means for connecting said at least one fiber to a source of electromagnetic pulses at said first clamping means, and connection means at said second clamping means for connecting said at least one fiber to a work element, said elongate fiber exhibiting a twitch response under stimulation by an action potential, said twitch response comprising a contraction time and a relaxation time and being less than 40 ms. 11. A motor unit of claim 10, wherein said at least one elongate actuator element comprises a plurality of discrete actuator elements in generally parallel side-by-side relationship. 12. A motor unit of claim 10, wherein said at least one elongate actuator element comprises a single actuator element entrained in a generally sinusoidal manner between the clamping means. 13. A motor unit of claim 10, wherein said elongate actuator element is characterized by having been subjected a plurality of times to a short, powerful electromagnetic pulse effective to cause contraction and change material properties, while under a stretching force. 14. A motor unit of claim 13, wherein said pulse has a current density of 400 to 4,000 MA/m.sup.2. 15. A motor unit of claim 13, wherein said pulse has a rate of current change of at least 200,000 A/sec. 16. A process for modifying an elongate fiber of a shape memory alloy comprising subjecting said elongate fiber to a stretching force while applying a plurality of short, very powerful electromagnetic pulses effective to cause contraction and change material properties of the fiber, wherein said electromagnetic pulses have a current density of 400 to 4000 MA/m.sup.2. 17. A process according to claim 16, wherein said fiber is a Ni-Ti fiber having a diameter of 0.01 to 10 mm. 18. A process for modifying an elongate fiber of a shape memory alloy comprising subjecting said elongate fiber to a stretching force while applying a plurality of short, very powerful electromagnetic pulses effective to cause contraction and change material properties of the fiber, wherein said pulses have a rate of current change of at least 200,000 A/sec. 19. A motor unit of claim 18, wherein said pulses have has a current density of 400 to 4,000 MA/m.sup.2. 20. A process for modifying an elongate fiber of a shape memory alloy comprising subjecting said elongate fiber to a stretching force serving to elongate the length of the fiber while applying a plurality of short, very powerful electromagnetic pulses effective to cause contraction and change material properties of the fiber, said fiber being a Ni-Ti fiber having a diameter of 0.01 to 10 mm, wherein said fiber prior to said subjecting has a twitch response comprising a total contraction rise time and relaxation decay time greater than 1000 ms, and said fiber after said subjecting has a twitch response of less than 40 ms. 21. A process according to claim 20, wherein said plurality is up to about 100. 22. A process according to claim 21, wherein said pulses have a rate of current change of at least 200,000 A/sec. 23. A modified elongate fiber derived from an elongate unmodified fiber of a shape memory Ni-Ti alloy, said unmodified elongate fiber having a twitch response, when subjected to an action potential effective to heat said fiber to the shape memory state, with a total contraction and relaxation time greater than 1000 ms, said modified fiber having a twitch response of less than 40 ms and said modified fiber having a diameter of 0.01 to 10 mm, said unmodified fiber having been modified by being subjected a plurality of times to a short, powerful electromagnetic pulse having a current density of 400 to 4,000 MA/m.sup.2, and a rate of current change of at least 200,000 A/sec, effective to cause contraction of the length of the unmodified fiber and change material properties while under a stretching force serving to elongate said length. 