Current MRI technologies require subjects to remain largely motionless for achieving high quality magnetic resonance (MR) scans, typically for 5-10 minutes at a time. However, lying absolutely still inside the tight MR imager (MRI) tunnel is a difficult task, especially for children, very sick patients, or the mentally ill. Even motion ranging less than 1 mm or 1 degree can corrupt a scan. This invention involves a system that adaptively compensates for subject motion in real-time. An object orientation marker, preferably a retro-grate reflector (RGR), is placed on a patients' head or other body organ of interest during MRI. The RGR makes it possible to measure the six degrees of freedom (x, y, and z-translations, and pitch, yaw, and roll), or "pose", required to track the organ of interest. A camera-based tracking system observes the marker and continuously extracts its pose. The pose from the tracking system is sent to the MR scanner via an interface, allowing for continuous correction of scan planes and position in real-time. The RGR-based motion correction system has significant advantages over other approaches, including faster tracking speed, better stability, automatic calibration, lack of interference with the MR measurement process, improved ease of use, and long-term stability. RGR-based motion tracking can also be used to correct for motion from awake animals, or in conjunction with other in vivo imaging techniques, such as computer tomography, positron emission tomography (PET), etc.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A motion tracking system for an object in the scanning volume of a scanner, comprising: a single object orientation marker attached to the object; a single detector that repeatedly detects orientation of the object orientation marker; a motion tracking computer that analyzes the orientations of the object orientation marker to determine motion of the object between the repeated detections, even if the motion tracking system is out of alignment with the scanner, and to send tracking information to the scanner to dynamically adjust scans by the scanner to compensate for motion of the object. 2. A motion tracking system for an object in the scanning volume of a scanner, comprising: an object orientation marker attached to the object; a camera that records repeated images; a mirror in a fixed position with respect to the scanner positioned so that the camera records repeated reflected images of the orientation marker in the mirror; a motion tracking computer that analyzes the repeated reflected images of the object orientation marker to determine motion of the object between the repeated images and to send tracking information to the scanner to dynamically adjust scans to compensate for motion of said object. 3. A process for compensating for patient motion in the scanning volume of a scanner that has a motion tracking system, without a specialized calibration tool, even if the motion tracking system is out of alignment with the scanner, comprising: recording the patient motion both in scans of the patient by the scanner and in the motion tracking system, whereby the patient motion is simultaneously recorded in the coordinate frame of the scanner and in the coordinate frame of the motion tracking system; continuously updating the measurement coordinate transformation from the motion tracking system coordinate frame to the scanner coordinate frame to compensate for drift and other calibration inaccuracies; transforming patient motion recorded in the coordinate frame of the motion tracking system into patient motion in the coordinate frame of the scanner using the updated measurement coordinate transformation. 4. A motion tracking system for an object in the scanning volume of a scanner, comprising: an object orientation marker attached to the object; a camera that views the object orientation marker directly; a first mirror in a fixed position with respect to the scanner positioned so that the camera can view a reflected image of the object orientation marker in the first mirror, so that the camera simultaneously records repeated direct images and repeated reflected images of the object orientation marker; and a motion tracking computer that analyzes both the repeated direct images and the repeated reflected images of the object orientation marker to determine motion of the object between the repeated images and to send tracking information to the scanner to dynamically adjust scans to compensate for motion of said object; whereby the first mirror and camera can be internally calibrated by analyzing the repeated direct images and the repeated reflected images of the object orientation marker. 5. A motion tracking system for an object in the scanning volume of a scanner, comprising: a camera that records repeated images; an object orientation marker attached to the object; a first mirror in a fixed position with respect to the scanner positioned so that the camera can view the object orientation marker in the first mirror; a second mirror in a fixed position with respect to the first mirror positioned so that the camera can view reflected images of the object orientation marker in the second mirror simultaneously with reflected images of the object orientation marker in the first mirror; a motion tracking computer that analyzes repeated reflected images of the object orientation marker in the first mirror and repeated reflected images of the object orientation marker in the second mirror to determine motion of the object between the repeated images and to send tracking information to the scanner to dynamically adjust scans to compensate for motion of said object. 6. A motion tracking system for an object in the scanning volume of a scanner, comprising: a camera that records repeated images; an object orientation marker attached to the object; a first mirror in a fixed position with respect to the scanner positioned so that the camera can view the object orientation marker in the first mirror; a second mirror in a fixed position with respect to the first mirror positioned so that the camera can view reflected images of the object orientation marker in the second mirror simultaneously with reflected images of the object orientation marker in the first mirror; a mirror orientation marker in a fixed position with respect to the first mirror positioned so that the camera can view direct images of the mirror orientation marker simultaneously with reflected images of the object orientation marker in both the first mirror and the second mirror; a motion tracking computer that analyzes repeated reflected images of the object orientation marker in the first mirror, repeated reflected images of the object orientation marker in the second mirror and repeated direct images of the mirror orientation marker, to determine motion of the object between the repeated images and to send tracking information to the scanner to dynamically adjust scans to compensate for motion of said object. 7. A motion tracking system for an object in the scanning volume of a scanner, comprising: a camera that records repeated images; an object orientation marker attached to the object; a first mirror in a fixed position with respect to the scanner positioned so that the camera can view the object orientation marker in the first mirror; a mirror orientation marker in a fixed position with respect to the first mirror positioned so that the camera can view a direct image of the mirror orientation marker simultaneously with a reflected image in the first mirror of the object orientation marker; a motion tracking computer that analyzes repeated reflected images of the object orientation marker in the first mirror and repeated direct images of the mirror orientation marker to determine motion of the object between the repeated images and to send tracking information to the scanner to dynamically adjust scans to compensate for motion of said object. 8. A system according to any one of claim 5, 6 or 7, wherein the mirrors and camera can be internally calibrated by analyzing the repeated images. 9. A system according to claim 8, whereby patient motion is recorded both by scans of the object by the scanner and by repeated images of the object orientation marker, so that such patient motion is recorded in coordinate frames of both the scanner and of the camera and mirrors, whereby patient motion recorded in the coordinate frame of the camera and mirrors can be transformed into patient motion in the coordinate frame of the scanner. 10. A process for using a single object orientation marker, comprising: attaching said object orientation marker to an object being scanned in a scanner; detecting motion of said object orientation marker with a single detector while said object is being scanned to generate tracking information; and sending said tracking information to said scanner to dynamically adjust said scanner to compensate for said motion of said object. 11. A system according to any one of claim 1, 2 or 5, further comprising prediction means to predict orientation of the object at times when scans will be taken by the scanner. 12. A system according to claim 11, wherein said scanner is selected from the group consisting of MR scanners, PET scanners, SPECT scanners, CT scanners, and digital angiographic scanners. 13. A system according to claim 11, wherein said object orientation marker indicates orientation in at least 3 degrees of freedom. 14. A system according to claim 11, wherein said object orientation marker indicates pose in 6 degrees of freedom. 15. A system according to claim 11, wherein said object orientation marker is an RGR. 16. A system comprising: an adaptive imaging system; a motion tracking system using a single object orientation marker and a single detector to track motion of an object; and a motion filtering and prediction system; wherein the motion tracking system provides tracking information to the adaptive imaging system to dynamically adjust scans to compensate for motion of said object; and wherein the motion filtering and prediction system provides predicted orientation of the object when the imaging system takes scans. 17. A motion tracking system according to claim 1, wherein said object orientation marker has moire patterns. 