A rotary actuator includes a plurality of interchangeable and essentially identical modular drive units each having a pair of racks operably rotating a drive shaft such that the torque applied to the shaft is evenly divided between the drive units. The shaft has pinion-type teeth of a length to accommodate the number of drive units needed to develop the required shaft torque. End plates sandwich the drive units therebetween and rotatably support the shafts. An internal channel system routes hydraulic fluid simultaneously to the proper ends of the racks of each of the drive units to translate the racks in unison. A position sensor identifies the rotary position of the shaft and provides such information to the control mechanism. A rack biasing mechanism for each rack provides biasing pressure against an associated back of a rack directly opposite the shaft and includes a roller acting on the back of the rack. A differential pressure sensor arrangement is provided to sense rotary loading of the shaft.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is as follows: 1. A rotary actuator comprising: (a) an elongate drive shaft having pinion gear teeth mounted thereon and an axis of rotation; said shaft being adapted to join with and rotate a tool; and (b) a plurality of modular and interchangeable drive units positioned axially along said shaft; each of said drive units including at least one fluid actuated member having drive teeth thereon mating with said shaft gear teeth so as to operably rotate said shaft when each of said drive units is activated; each of said drive units including aligned axial ports and interconnecting conduits to operably provide for actuating fluid to be simultaneously transferred among said drive units such that each of said members is simultaneously selectably actuated to rotate said drive shaft about the axis of rotation thereof in a common direction. 2. The actuator according to claim 1 wherein: (a) each of said drive units include a rack; said drive shaft extending through said drive units and being operably rotated by said racks so as to rotate said shaft. 3. The actuator according to claim 1 wherein: (a) said modular units being positioned along said shaft in side by side relationship to each other; and (b) each of said modular units includes a pair of opposed racks. 4. The actuator according to claim 2 wherein: (a) said racks are hydraulically positioned by hydraulic control means; and (b) hydraulic fluid to motivate said racks is delivered to each of said racks from a common source so as to be simultaneously delivered to each of said modular units so as to drive racks of each of said modular units to rotate said drive shaft in a common direction and apply an equal torque from each of said racks to said shaft. 5. The actuator according to claim 4 wherein: (a) each of said modular drive units includes channel means operably conveying fluid for actuating said drive units therein; said channel means being positioned such that channel means of adjacent modular units align and flow communicate with one another to allow said fluid to cooperatively rotate said shaft in a selected common direction during operation. 6. In a rotary hydraulic actuator having an elongate drive shaft, the improvement comprising: (a) a plurality of interchangeable modular drive units axially positioned along said shaft in side by side relationship; each of said drive units including a fluid actuated member operably engaged with and selectively rotating said drive shaft; each of said fluid actuated members of all of said drive units being respectively fluid flow linked to each other so as to simultaneously drive said shaft in a common rotational direction. 7. A rotary actuator comprising: (a) an elongate drive shaft having an axis of rotation and having pinion gear-like teeth extending along a cylindrical surface portion thereof parallel to said axis; (b) a first end plate and a second end plate positioned in spaced relationship to each other and rotatably supporting said shaft; (c) a plurality of modular drive units; each of said drive units having a hydraulically driven rack positioned therein; each of said racks being positioned so as to mesh with the pinion gear-like teeth of said shaft; said modular drive units being sandwiched between said first and second end plates; and (d) hydraulic means simultaneously communicating pressurized hydraulic fluid to said racks so as to urge translation of said racks in unison to thereby rotate said shaft. 8. The actuator according to claim 7 wherein: (a) each of said modular units includes a pair of opposed racks; each rack having pistons at opposite ends thereof operably driven by hydraulic fluid. 9. The actuator according to claim 7 wherein: (a) said shaft is selected from a set of shafts with one of each of said shafts in said set being sized to receive different numbers of said modular drive units. 10. The actuator according to claim 7 wherein: (a) each of said modular drive units is sized to have a preselected maximum torque generating capacity; and (b) each of said modular drive units is drivingly connected to said shaft such that the maximum torque generating capacity of said shaft is the combined maximum torque generating capacity of all of said modular drive units. 11. The actuator according to claim 10 wherein: (a) said gear-like teeth on said shaft are sufficiently elongated to simultaneously engage the racks of all of the modular drive units. 12. The actuator according to claim 7 wherein: (a) said actuator includes a hydraulic flow channel therethrough; said hydraulic flow channel including interconnect segments in each of said modular drive units for simultaneously communicating hydraulic fluid to drive racks in each of said modular drive units so as to rotate said shaft in a common direction. 13. The actuator according to claim 12 wherein: (a) each of the end plates include hydraulic fluid channel segments flow communicating with said modular drive unit hydraulic fluid flow segments. 14. The actuator according to claim 12 wherein: (a) each of said modular units includes a first set of racks and a second set of opposed racks positioned on opposite sides of said shaft; and (b) said hydraulic flow channel includes flow means internal of said actuator interconnecting fluid acting on one side of said first set of racks with the opposite side of said second set of racks. 15. The actuator according to claim 7 including: (a) position sensing means operably connected to said shaft. 16. The actuator according to claim 7 including: (a) rotary load sensing means operatively sensing resistance to rotation of said shaft. 17. The actuator according to claim 7 wherein: (a) each of said racks includes a rack biasing mechanism; each of said rack biasing mechanisms including a biasing wheel operably positioned against a back surface of said rack directly opposite and aligned with a radius of said shaft; said biasing mechanism including biasing means for urging said biasing wheel against the back surface of an associated rack. 18. In a rotary actuator wherein a rack acts upon a pinion gear to operably rotate the gear, the improvement comprising: (a) a biasing mechanism for biasing said rack against said pinion gear with a minimum of translational friction; said biasing mechanism comprising a roller mounted so as to engage a back surface of said rack directly opposite said pinion gear such that a radius of said roller is generally colinear with a radius of said gear and a rocker arm, said roller being pivotally mounted on said rocker arm near one end thereof and an opposite end of said rocker arm being pivotally mounted by a pivot to said actuator; sad biasing mechanism also including biasing means engaging said rocker arm intermediate said pivot and said roller for selectively adjusting the force applied by said roller to said rack and operably urging said roller against said rack. 19. The actuator according to claim 18 wherein: (a) said rack is positioned within a bore in said actuator and includes a respective piston at opposite ends thereof; each of said pistons adapted to be translated in a channel with said rack; said rack being connected to each of said pistons by a pin; said pin being axially positioned within said rack so as to prevent relative movement of said rack with respect to said pistons perpendicular to an axis of travel of said rack. 20. A rotary actuator comprising: (a) an elongated shaft having an axis of rotation; and (b) at least two fluid actuated modular drive units stacked axially in side by side relationship along said shaft; said drive shaft extending between said drive units and said drive units operably drivingly engaging said shaft to selectively rotate same; said drive units having channels therethrough for flow of fluid for actuating said drive units and each of said drive units having axial ports aligned with adjacent drive units to allow flow of the fluid simultaneously therethrough. 21. The actuator according to claim 20 wherein: (a) said shaft includes pinion teeth thereon aligned parallel to said axis of rotation; and (b) each of said drive units includes a rack meshed with said teeth and operably translatable to rotate said shaft; each of said drive units generating a uniform torque during operation and being interconnected so as to act in unison upon said shaft such that the torque applied to said shaft is a combination of the torques generated by all of said racks. 22. The actuator according to claim 21 wherein: (a) said racks are hydraulically driven. 23. An actuator kit including: (a) a plurality of interchangeable and essentially identical drive modules each adapted to output a predetermined maximum torque; each of said modules including a hydraulically drivable rack with gear teeth thereon; (b) a set of shafts; each of said shafts having teeth thereon adapted to mesh with said rack teeth; each of said shafts having the teeth thereof extending therealong for respective different lengths so as to accommodate different combinations of said drive modules thereon; (c) a first end plate; (d) a second end plate; said first and second end plates being sized and shaped to rotatably individually support each one said shafts and to sandwich said drive modules therebetween; and (e) fastening means for securing said first and second end plates and any selected number of said drive modules together. 24. A rotary actuator comprising: (a) an elongate drive shaft having a spline and a pinion gear portion; said gear portion having gear teeth extending along a surface thereof generally parallel to an axis of rotation of said shaft; (b) a first end plate having a centrally located opening therethrough and including bearing means mounted in said opening for supporting said shaft; said spline extending outward from one side of said end plate and said gear portion extending in an opposite direction; (c) a plurality of modular drive units; each of said drive units having a pair of opposed hydraulically driven racks mounted therein; each of said racks being positioned in a respective bore within a respective drive unit; each of said drive units having connected to opposite ends thereof a pair of drive pistons; said shaft extending through a central bore in each of said drive units; each of said racks being mounted so as to have rack teeth thereof engage the shaft gear teeth in a meshed relationship; each of said modular drive units including hydraulic fluid channel means for operably conveying hydraulic fluid to said pistons on a side of said pistons opposite an associated rack; said channel means for each of said modular units being interconnected such that hydraulic fluid acting on a first set of pistons commonly biases said racks to rotate said shaft clockwise and hydraulic fluid acting on a second set of pistons commonly biases said rack to rotate said shaft counterclockwise; (d) each of said racks having associated therewith a biasing mechanism; each biasing mechanism including a roller pivotally mounted in a respective drive module and engaging a back surface of said rack directly opposite said shaft; said biasing mechanism including adjustable biasing means for urging this roller against respective rack back surface; and (e) a second end plate positioned opposite said first end plate and including a central opening therethrough and bearing means mounted in said opening for supporting said shaft; said first end plate and said second end plate sandwiching said modular drive units therebetween. 