An adaptive compliance system wherein the movement of an orientation stat is controlled in combination with its interaction with an assembly robot to vary the stiffness between the two structures.
Claims Having described my invention what is claimed is: 1. An adaptive compliance control system wherein workpieces are joined to one another on a reorientation station to form a product which comprises: a reorientation station adapted to receive a workpiece, said reorientation station deflectable from a first position to a second position the amount of deflection based on the interactive force between the workpiece and the reorientation station; robot means to move the workpiece and to place the workpiece into contacting engagement with the reorientation station; means to control the stiffness between the reorientation station and the workpiece which includes: means to sense the interactive force between the reorientation station and the workpiece; means to increase the stiffness while the reorientation station and the workpiece move from the first to the second position; and means to move the reorientation station and the workpiece to a third known position wherein the interactive force has exceeded a preset force value. 2. The control system of claim 1 which comprises: means to stop the movement of the workpiece and the reorientation station when said preset force occurs. 3. The control system of claim 1 which includes: means to move at least two workpieces and to place the workpieces sequentially into contacting engagement with the reorientation station or each other. 4. A method for assembling workpieces to form a product wherein the product is formed on a reorientation station which includes: moving a workpiece toward the reorientation station; contacting the reorientation station with the workpiece; establishing a preset interactive force allowable between the reorientation station and the workpiece; sensing the actual interactive force between the reorientation station and the workpiece; increasing the stiffness between the reorientation station and the workpiece as the workpiece and the reorientation station move from a first position to a second position where the movement of the reorientation station and workpiece cease and moving subsequently the reorientation station and the workpiece to a third known position, while maintaining the stiffness between them at a level greater than the level of the stiffness between them when at the second position whereby the location of the workpiece in relation to the reorientation station is known wherein the actual force has exceeded the preset force. 5. The method of claim 4 which includes: stopping the movement of the workpiece and the reorientation station when said preset force is reached. 