A system for process control comprises a server digital data processor and a client digital data processor that are coupled by a network, such as the Internet or an Intranet. The server digital data processor, which is additionally coupled to a control/sensing device and any associated interface equipment (collectively, referred to as "process control apparatus"), includes a command processor that transfers information between the network and the process control apparatus. The client digital data processor includes an information client (e.g., a so-called Internet web browser) capable of requesting and receiving an applet from the server digital data processor. The information client, further, defines a hardware-independent and operating system-independent virtual machine environment within the client digital data processor. The client digital data processor executes, within that virtual machine environment, an applet for configuring the client digital data processor as a "process controller" that establishes communications over the network with the command processor and that monitors and/or controls the process control apparatus via those communications.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of operating a portable computer for use in a process control system, comprising: downloading software via a network to the portable computer; executing the software on the portable computer to generate and transmit via the network a request to get a value associated with remote process control equipment, and to display a value received in response to such a request; wherein the software is executed in a web browser that is executing on the portable computer; and generating and transmitting, with the software, a request to set a value associated with the remote process control equipment, wherein the step of executing the software includes transmitting a request for at least one of creating, reading, writing, and destroying one or more objects that contain said values associated with said remote process control equipment. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the process control equipment comprises any of a control station, server, a further digital data processor, and further process control apparatus. 3. The method of claim 1, including receiving input from an operator. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of executing the software includes configuring the portable computer as a process controller. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of executing the software includes responding to input to generate and transmit on the network a request to update information regarding the control equipment. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of executing the software includes generating a display that permits an operator to select process control apparatus values that are to be displayed. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the object stores information that controls and/or reflects the status of associated process control equipment. 