A robotic system for grasping a randomly oriented object, comprising grasping means for grasping said object is disclosed. Motor means places the grasping means at a desired position and causes performance of a gripping function. Camera means forms a first image of the object. An optical train conveys an image from a predetermined point to the camera means, the predetermined point being fixed relative to the grasping means. Image means contains a second image of the object to be grasped. Comparison means compares the first image to the second image. First coupling means couples the image means to the comparison means. Second coupling means couples the output of the camera means to the comparison means. Image rotation means causes rotation of the second image with respect to the image produced by the camera means. The comparison means is responsive to the first and second coupling means to stop rotation of the image rotation means when a coincidence in angular position is detected between the second image and the image produced by the camera means. Finally, angular orientation means generates an angular orientation signal in response to a detection of coincidence between the second image and the image produced by the camera means to generate an orientation signal indicating the orientation of the object and providing the orientation signal to the motor means to angularly orient the grasping means with the object to be grasped.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic system for grasping a randomly oriented object, comprising: (a) grasping means for grasping said object; (b) motor means for placing said grasping means at a desired position and causing said grasping means to perform a gripping function; (c) camera means for forming a first image of said object; (d) an optional train for conveying an image from a predetermined point to said camera means, said predetermined point being fixed relative to said grasping means; (e) image means for containing a second image of said object to be grasped; (f) comparison means responsive to said first and second images for comparing said first image to said second image; (g) first coupling means for coupling said image means to said comparison means; (h) second coupling means for coupling the output of said camera means to said comparison means; (i) image rotation means for causing rotation of said second image with respect to the image produced by said camera means, said comparison means being responsive to said first and second coupling means to stop rotation of said image rotation means when a coincidence in angular position is detected between said second image and the image produced by said camera means; and (j) angular orientation means for generating an angular orientation signal in respone to a detection of coincidence between said second image and said image produced by said camera means to generate an orientation signal indicating the orientation of said object and providing said orientation signal to said motor means to angularly orient said grasping means with said object to be grasped. 2. A robotic system for operating on a randomly oriented object, comprising: (a) tool means for operating on said object; (b) motor means for placing said tool means at a desired position and causing said tool means to perform a desired function; (c) camera means for forming a first image of said object to be operated upon; (d) an optical train for conveying an image from a predetermined point to said camera means, said predetermined point being fixed relative to said tool means; (e) image means for containing a second image of said object to be operated upon; (f) comparison means responsive to said first and second images for comparing said first image to said second image; (g) first coupling means for coupling said image means to said comparison means; (h) second coupling means for coupling the output of said camera means to said comparison means; (i) image rotation means for causing rotation of said second image with respect to the image produced by said camera means, said comparison means being responsive to said first and second coupling means to stop rotation of said image rotation means when a coincidence in angular position is detected between said second image and the image produced by said camera means; and (j) angular orientation means for generating an angular orientation signal in response to a detection of coincidence between said second image and said image produced by said camera means to generate an orientation signal indicating the orientation of said object and providing said orientation signal to said motor means to angularly orient said tool means with said object to be operated upon. 3. A system as in claim 1 or 2, wherein said optical train comprises a fiber optic bundle and said image rotation means is an optical system coupled between said fiber optic bundle and said picture forming means. 4. A system as in claim 2, wherein said camera means includes image deflecting means for alternately viewing an object from said predetermined point or viewing from an other point a second object to be grasped after grasping of said object, said other point positioned to allow a preview of the position of said second object, said second object being positioned in facing spaced relationship to said other point and said object being positioned in facing spaced relationship to said predetermined point, and further comprising position detecting means for detecting the position of said second object and providing that information to said motor means when said second object is in facing spaced relationship to said predetermined point, whereby said motor means will cause said grasping means to approach said object at a predetermined rate. 5. A system as in claim 1 or 4, wherein said second image and said picture forming means both generate images whose configurations are identical and synchronized with each other and said comparator comprises adder means for adding the outputs of said camera means and said image means and removing the alternating current portion of the output of the result of said addition, and means for determining a minimum value in said alternating current portion. 6. A system as in claim 1, 2 or 4, wherein said image means comprises a photographic negative. 7. A robotic system as in claim 1, 2 or 4 wherein the output of one of said camera means and said image means is varied in size by zoom means coupled to the output of said one, the output of said zoom means being coupled to said comparison means. 