The obstacle detector (24) has an upper plate (32) which mounts on the arm (22) of the positioning machine. At least three springs (50) pull the lower plate (34) upward and three projections such as balls (36) provide precise location of the lower plate (34). Lateral force causes actuation of switch (60) to terminate motion of the positioning machine. Vertical impact is sensed by upward motion of outer ball slide (68), which is resiliently held down against stop shoulder (76). The handling device has its foot (74) mounted on the bottom of the outer ball slide.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An obstacle detector comprising: a first member and a second member, one of said members being for attachment to a moving machine and the other of said members being for carrying a handling device thereon, an axis through said first and second members; means interengaging said first and second members for resiliently retaining said first and second members in a neutral position, wherein said resilient interengaging means between said members comprises first, second and third projections mounted in one of said members and first, second and third substantially conical projection-receiving sockets in the other of said members, in which said projection is seated in a set screw engaged in a said second member so that adjustment of said screw adjusts the positions of said projection with respect to said second member, said projections lying substantially in a plane which is normal to said axis so that lateral motion forces said projections out of their sockets, and there is a plurality of tension springs interengaged between said first and said second members for resiliently urging said projections into said sockets so that the number of springs engaged between said first and said second members can be related to the weight of the handling device attached to said second member; and; means connected between said first and second members for detecting when one of said members moves with respect to the other of said members for indicating impact with an obstruction and for connection for stopping motion of said positioning machine wherein said detecting means comprises a switch interengaged between said first and said second members so that forcing said projections out of said sockets causes switch actuation. 2. The obstacle detector of claim 1 wherein said conical projection-receiving socket in which said projection is seated is in a set screw engaged in said second member so that adjustment of said set screw adjusts the position of said projection with respect to said second member. 3. The obstacle detector of claim 1 further including at least first and second slides mounted on said second member and arranged for linear movement substantially parallel to said axis, said first and second slides being configured to receive and support the handling device. 4. The obstacle detector of claim 3 wherein said slides comprise first and second ball slides, said ball slides having a stop shoulder thereon to limit motion of said ball slide in a first direction, said first direction being toward the mounting structure for said handling device so as to limit motion of said handling device away from said first member. 5. The obstacle detector of claim 4 further including a switch for detecting motion of said slide so that upon predetermined motion of said slide, said switch signals obstruction of said handling device. 6. The obstacle detector of claim 5 wherein a spring resiliently urges said slide so that said slide stop is resiliently engaged. 7. The obstacle detector of claim 4 wherein said means for resilient interengagement between said members comprises first, second and third projections mounted in one of said members and first, second and third substantially conical projection-receiving sockets in the other of said members, said projections lying substantially in a plane which is normal to said axis so that lateral motion forces said projections out of their sockets, said sensing means comprising a switch interengaged between said first and second members so that forcing said projections out of said sockets causes switch actuation. 8. The obstacle detector of claim 7 wherein said means interengaging said first and second members includes a spring interengaged between said first and second members for resiliently urging said projections into said sockets. 