A linearly actuated switch assembly is adjustably disposed in a housing stem bore of a robotic crash protector device. An actuation plate is disposed over the central bore of the contact surface. As the piston moves toward the housing base in response to a crash force or torque applied to the actuator, the actuation plate moves in an axial direction, and contacts and actuates the switch. The actuation plate is biased towards the contact surface by an actuation spring disposed between the actuation plate and a spring plate that is rigidly affixed to the housing stem. This arrangement allows the actuation plate to "float" with respect to the fixed spring plate. In particular, the actuation plate may assume the orientation of the piston, which may be canted from its default orientation--normal to the device central axis--by uneven application of force by the actuator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic crash protector device adapted to be interposed between a robot arm and a robotic tool to detect and indicate a crash condition in response to a non-axial applied force, comprising: a housing adapted to be connected to one of a robot arm and a robotic tool, the housing having a base and a central axis; a piston mounted within the housing and moveable in an axial direction; an actuator adapted to be connected to the other of the robot arm and robotic tool, the actuator contacting the piston and operative to move the piston in an axial direction in response to a crash condition; and a linearly actuated switch disposed within the housing and axially aligned such that a predetermined amount of axial movement of the piston in the housing actuates the switch. 2. The device of claim 1 further comprising an adjustment mechanism operative to adjust the compliance of the crash protector device by adjusting the position of the switch in the housing. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein the adjustment mechanism comprises a screw operative to adjust the axial position of the switch relative to a default position of the piston. 4. The device of claim 1 further comprising a central, axially aligned housing stem having a central bore, and wherein the switch is disposed at least partially in the housing stem bore. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein the piston includes a central through-bore slideably engaging the housing stem and further comprising an actuation plate covering and biased toward one side of the through-bore such that the actuation plate is operative to contact and actuate the switch as the piston moves a predetermined distance in the housing. 6. The device of claim 5 further comprising a spring plate rigidly attached to the housing stem, and wherein the actuation plate is biased towards the piston by a spring disposed between the actuation plate and the spring plate such that the actuation plate may assume a planar orientation different than that of the spring plate. 7. The device of claim 4 wherein compressed air in a chamber between the piston and the housing base biases the piston to a default state wherein the actuation plate does not contact the switch. 8. A robotic crash protector device, comprising: a housing for attachment to a robot arm or a robotic tool, the housing containing a first cavity; a piston disposed in the housing and containing a bore therethrough, the piston forming a fluid chamber in the first cavity whereby fluid in the chamber urges the piston to a first position; an actuator for attachment to the other of the robot arm or the robotic tool, the actuator operative to move the piston from the first position in response to a crash by the robotic tool; a linearly actuated switch adjustably disposed in the housing; and an actuation plate spanning the piston bore and operative to move with the piston, the actuation plate operative to contact and actuate the linearly actuated switch when the piston moves from the first position by a predetermined amount. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein the sensitivity of the device is adjustable by altering the axial position of the switch within the housing and the bore of the piston when the piston is in the first position. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein placing the switch closer to the actuator increases the sensitivity of the device. 11. An electrical sensor for a robotic crash protector device having a central axis, comprising: a switch carrier sleeve axially disposed within the robotic crash protector device and biased toward a first position within the device; a linearly actuated switch at least partially disposed within the switch carrier sleeve and maintained in a fixed position within the sleeve; an adjustment screw threadedly connected to the robotic crash protector device and abutting the switch carrier sleeve, the adjustment screw operative to alter the axial position of the switch carrier sleeve within the device; and an actuation plate disposed within the robotic crash protector device, the actuation plate biased toward an extended position in a default state, and operative to move in an axial direction from the extended position in response to a crash force applied to the device; such that the switch assumes a first state when the actuation plate is in the extended position, and is actuated to a second state by the actuation plate moving from the extended position in response to the crash force applied to the device. 12. The sensor of claim 11, wherein the linearly actuated switch and switch carrier sleeve are threaded, and wherein the switch is maintained in a fixed position within the sleeve by the mating of switch and sleeve threads. 13. The sensor of claim 12, wherein the fixed position of the linearly actuated switch within the switch carrier sleeve is set by rotating the switch within the sleeve. 14. A crash protector device having a central axis and operative to indicate crash conditions in a substantially uniform manner for uniform crash forces applied in any radial position about the axis, comprising: a housing adapted to be connected to one of a robot arm and a robotic tool, the housing having a base and a central axis; an actuator adapted to be connected to the other of the robot arm and robotic tool, the actuator biased to axial alignment with the base in a default condition, and operative to assume a deflection angle with respect to the base under an applied non-axial crash force; an actuation plate disposed within the crash protector device, biased to an extended position away from the base, and operative to move axially toward the base as the actuator is deflected from axial alignment with the base; and a linearly actuated switch disposed in an adjustably fixed position within the base and aligned along the central axis; whereby the linearly actuated switch is actuated to indicate a crash condition by the actuation plate when the actuator is deflected from axial alignment to a predetermined amount by a non-axial applied crash force. 15. The device of claim 14 further comprising: a spring plate rigidly affixed to the base in an alignment normal to the central axis; and an actuation spring disposed between the spring plate and the actuation plate and operative to bias the actuation plate away from the spring plate; such that, as the actuation plate moves toward the base when the actuator is deflected from axial alignment with the base, the actuation plate may deviate from an alignment normal to the central axis. 