A cutting tool includes a motor and control inside the cutting tool for adjusting the cutting radius of the cutting tool. The cutting tool is adaptable for use with machine tools which do not include integral systems for moving parts of the cutting tool adjust the cutting radius.
Claims I claim: 1. A rotary cutting tool for mounting on a spindle of a machine tool, comprising: a base for attaching the tool to the spindle of the machine tool, the base having an axis of rotation; a support for a tool bit, the support being connected to the base; means within the tool permitting displacement of the support perpendicular to the axis of the base; means within the tool for determining the magnitude of the displacement of the support; means within the tool for receiving position demand data, the data relating to a demanded magnitude of the displacement of the support; a motor within the tool for displacing the support perpendicular to the axis; and a tool control within the tool for actuating the motor in accordance with the said data. 2. A tool according to claim 1 further comprising a power source provided within the tool for powering the motor. 3. A tool according to claim 2 further comprising sensing means connected to the support for sensing the surface of a workpiece, and for generating a sensor signal upon attaining a predetermined spatial relationship with the workpiece surface, the sensor signal causing the tool control to read the position of the support. 4. A tool according to claim 1 wherein the motor is a stepper motor, and the position of the support relative to the axis of the base is determined by the tool control in terms of the number of motor steps from a reference position. 5. A tool according to claim 4, wherein the position demand data defines the position of the support in terms of the number of steps of the motor. 6. The combination of a cutting tool according to claim 1 with a machine tool having a spindle to which the cutting tool is securable, means for positioning the spindle relative to a datum, a machine measuring system for measuring the position of the spindle relative to said datum, and a machine control for generating position demand data for transmission to the receiving means. 7. A combination according to claim 6 wherein the tool further comprises sensing means connected to the support for sensing the surface of a workpiece, and for generating a sensor signal upon attaining a predetermined spatial relationship with the workpiece surface, the sensor signal causing the tool control to read the position of the support. 8. A combination according to claim 7 comprising: wireless transmitting means for transmitting data relating to the position of the support from the tool control to the machine control. 9. A combination according to claim 6 further comprising wireless transmitting means for transmitting the position demand data from the machine control to the receiving means. 10. A method of machining a bore in a workpiece, using a rotary cutting tool mounted to the spindle of a machine tool, the cutting tool having an adjustable cutting radius and means for measuring the cutting radius, the method comprising the steps of: setting the tool cutting radius to a first value; machine a bore in a workpiece; measuring, with the tool, the actual radius of the first bore, by keeping the machine tool spindle stationary, adjusting the tool radius to bring the tool into a predetermined spatial relationship with the surface of the bore and measuring the cutting radius of the tool upon attainment of the said relationship; determining an offset value of radius equal to the difference between the first value and the actual value, the offset being positive if the first value is greater than the actual value, and negative if the first value is less than the actual value; if the offset value is positive, setting the tool cutting radius to an adjusted value, the adjusting value being the sum of the actual value and the offset value; and machining a further bore with the tool cutting radius at the adjusted value. 11. A method according to claim 10, further comprising the steps of: measuring, with the tool, the position of a calibration surface, by keeping the machine tool spindle stationary, adjusting the tool radius to bring the tool into a predetermined spatial relationship with the surface, and measuring the cutting radius of the tool upon attainment of the said relationship, thereby to establish a comparative measurement of the position of the calibration surface; measuring, with the machine, the position of the calibration surface, by bringing the spindle into a predetermined spatial relationship with the surface, and measuring the position of the machine spindle in a machine measurement system, upon attainment of said relationship thereby to determined an absolute measurement of the position of the calibration surface; and comparing the comparative and absolute measurements of the position of the calibration surface, and assigning to each comparative unit of measurement an absolute value of distance, thereby to enable adjustment of the cutting tool radius in terms of absolute values of distance. 12. A method of machining a bore of predetermined radius in a workpiece, using a rotary cutting tool mounted to the spindle of a machine tool, the cutting tool having an adjustable cutting radius and means for measuring the cutting radius, the method comprising the steps of: setting the tool cutting radius to a first value, the first value of cutting tool radius being smaller than the predetermined radius and being known relative to the predetermined radius; machining a first bore in a workpiece with the tool cutting radius at the first value; measuring, with the tool, the actual radius of the first bore by keeping the machine tool spindle stationary, adjusting the tool radius to bring the tool into a predetermined spatial relationship with the surface of the bore and measuring the cutting radius of the tool upon attainment of the said relationship; determining an offset value of radius equal to the difference between the first value and the actual value, the offset value being positive if the first value is greater than the actual value, and negative if the first value is smaller than the actual value; if the offset value is positive, setting the tool cutting radius to a second value the second value being the sum of: the first value; the difference between the first value and the predetermined radius; and the offset value; and machining a second bore with the tool cutting radius at said second value. 