A Liquid-Liquid Extraction apparatus for extracting at least one species from a donor liquid solution (6) into at least one recipient liquid (8) is disclosed The apparatus comprises one or more cells comprising a cartridge (3) with an open macro-porous solid matrix made o a micro-porous material having affinity to an extractant material, so that a thin layer of liquid extractant may attach to the matrix.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A Liquid-Liquid Extraction method for extracting at least one species from a donor liquid solution into at least one recipient liquid, the method comprising: providing a layer of liquid extractant supported as a liquid, by capillary forces on a solid substrate comprising an open macro-porous solid matrix made of a micro-porous material having affinity to the extractant liquid, the solid matrix having open channels wide enough to permit free flow of the solution into and out of the channels; alternately, separately and repeatedly bringing the donor liquid solution and the recipient liquid in brief contact for a few seconds with the liquid extractant supported on the solid substrate so as to transfer said at least one species from the donor liquid solution onto the layer of extractant and then from the layer of the extractant into the recipient liquid. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of alternately, separately and repeatedly, bringing the donor liquid solution and the recipient liquid in contact with the liquid extractant supported on the solid substrate comprises alternately and periodically dipping the solid substrate with the supported liquid extractant into the donor liquid solution and then into the recipient liquid. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of alternately, separately and repeatedly, bringing the donor liquid solution and the recipient liquid in contact with the liquid extractant supported on the solid substrate comprises: providing a container for containing the solid substrate with the supported liquid extractant; letting the donor liquid solution into the container; draining the donor liquid solution from the container; letting the recipient liquid into the container; and draining the recipient liquid from the container. 4. The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the draining of the donor liquid solution and the recipient liquid from the container is done using pressurized gas. 5. The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the step of alternately, separately and repeatedly, bringing the donor liquid solution and the recipient liquid in contact with the liquid extractant supported on the solid substrate comprises pumping the donor liquid solution into the container at one end of the container, displacing the recipient liquid occupying the container and then pumping the recipient liquid into the container at another end of the container, displacing the donor liquid solution. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of alternately, separately and repeatedly, bringing the donor liquid solution and the recipient liquid in contact with the liquid extractant supported on the solid substrate comprises: alternately spraying the donor liquid solution and the recipient liquid onto the solid substrate with supported layer of extractant. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6, comprising: providing two spraying nozzles, a first spraying nozzle for spraying the donor liquid solution over a first section of the solid substrate and a second spraying nozzle for spraying the recipient liquid over a second section of the solid substrate; and moving the solid substrate so that the first and second section exchange positions. 8. The method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the step of moving the solid substrate so that the first and second section exchange positions comprises rotating the solid substrate. 9. The method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the spraying the donor liquid solution and the recipient liquid onto the liquid extractant supported on the solid substrate is done simultaneously. 10. A Liquid-Liquid Extraction apparatus for extracting at least one species from a donor liquid solution into at least one recipient liquid, the apparatus comprising at least one cell that includes a layer of liquid extractant supported as a liquid, by capillary forces on a solid substrate comprising an open macro-porous solid matrix made of a micro-porous material having affinity to the extractant liquid, the solid matrix having open channels wide enough to permit free flow of the solution into and out of the channels, and at least one port for alternately, separately and repeatedly introducing the donor liquid solution and the recipient liquid. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the cell is housed in a container. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said at least one port includes one port that serves for draining the donor liquid solution and the recipient liquid. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said at least one cell comprises a plurality of cells fluidically connected in series. 14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said at least one cell comprises a plurality of cells that are stacked in the form of a column. 15. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said at least one cell is rotatable. 