A robotic apparatus for positioning a tool or work hand that incorporates a compliant wrist effective to adjust to delicate but misaligned portions of the workpiece, comprising (a) structure for magnetically supporting a positioning member carrying a gripper tool; (b) pneumatic structure for selectively separating and floating the positioning member from said supporting structure to permit lateral adjustment of the positioning member in response to small forces received from the gripper tool as it carries out gripping; and (c) structure for locking the positioning member to the supporting structure upon completion of the desired lateral adjustment. A method of using such compliant wrist concept, comprising (a) magnetically suspending a positioning plate from a magnet, the plate carrying the gripper tool; (b) injecting a film of air between the interface of the magnet and plate to provide floating separation therebetween enabling ease of lateral movement; (c) closing a gripper tool about the part to be gripped causing any offcenter gripping forces to be translated back to the plate resulting in lateral movement in response thereto for seeking a centering position; and (d) upon achieving the desired centering position, deactivating the air injection to permit the magnet to lock the plate in position relative to the magnet for further robotic movement.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A compliant wrist for connecting a gripper tool to a robot, the gripper being carried on a positioning member, the wrist comprising: (a) means for magnetically supporting said positioning member which in turn supports said gripper tool; (b) pneumatic means for selectively separating and floating said positioning member from said magnetic supporting means to permit lateral and rotational adjustment of the positioning member in response to ultrasmall forces received from the gripper tool as it carries out gripping; and (c) means for locking the positioning member to the magnetic supporting means upon completion of the desired lateral adjustment. 2. The compliant wrist as in claim 1, in which said means (a) comprises a permanent magnet fixed to a nonmagnetic housing, the magnet having a magnetic force greater than the sum of (i) weight of the workpiece positioning member and gripper, and (ii) the force of said pneumatic means. 3. The compliant wrist as in claim 1, in which means (a) is a permanent magnet fixed and magnetically isolated with respect to said robot, said permanent magnet having a magnetic force effective to suspend the positioning member in a predetermined spaced relationship to the magnet when said pneumatic means is applied. 4. The complaint wrist as in claim 1, in which said pneumatic means comprises one or more passages extending through the magnet positioned to spread a uniformly thin airflow between the positioning member and magnetic means. 5. The complaint wrist as in claim 4, in which said pneumatic means is arranged to allow said airflow to exit at the edges of the plate and magnet. 6. The complaint wrist as in claim 1, in which said locking means comprises a control for deactivating said pneumatic separating means, allowing the positioning member to be fixed with the magnet for positioning. 7. The complaint wrist as in claim 6, in which a nonmagnetic shim is fixed to one of said positioning member or magnet means to facilitate lift-off of the positioning member when activated by said pneumatic means. 8. The complaint wrist as in claim 1, in which said positioning member is a plate having a surface magnetically responsive to the magnet means to be drawn thereto. 9. The compliant wrist as in claim 1, in which said pneumatic means comprises an annular lip on said supporting member to effectively cup the airflow passing between the magnet and supporting member and prevent the supporting member from laterally shifting away from said magnet beyond the extremity of said lips. 10. The compliant wrist as in claim 4, in which the pneumatic means comprises a composite throat area of said passages with an area of about 0.012 inches, and the air pressure being fed to said pneumatic means being in the range of 20-90 psi. 11. The compliant wrist as in claim 4, in which said pneumatic means defines a plenum chamber at the exit of the passages from said magnet means to facilitate lift-off of the positioning member from the magnet means. 12. The complaint wrist as in claim 1, in which the airflow between the magnet and positioning member during separation is about 0.001-0.004 inches in thickness. 13. A method of using a compliant wrist connecting a gripper tool to a robot, comprising: (a) magnetically suspending a positioning plate from a magnet, the plate carrying the gripper tool; (b) injecting a film of air between the interface of the magnet and plate to provide floating separation therebetween enabling ease of lateral movement; (c) closing said gripper tool about the part to be gripped causing any offcenter gripping forces to be translated back to the plate resulting in lateral movement in response thereto for seeking a centering position; and (d) upon achieving the desired centering position, deactivating the air injection to permit the magnet to lock the plate in position relative to the magnet for further robotic movement. 14. The method as in claim 13, in which said plate is recentered to a predetermined position between steps (b) and (c). 15. The method as in claim 13, in which said centering means is comprised of an electromagnetic means employing attractive or repelling electromagnetic forces to achieve such recentering. 16. The method as in claim 16, in which said recentering means is mechanical and deploys actuatable detents to realign the plate, the detents having an actuatable axis either parallel or perpendicular to the float plane. 17. The method as in claim 13, in which said steps are carried out within the cycle time of one second or less. 18. The method as in claim 14, in which said recentering step is carried out within a period of less than one second. 19. The method as in claim 14, in which step (b) is carried out within a period of less than 0.75 seconds. 20. The method as in claim 14, in which said method is effective to accurately transfer a part within an accuracy of plus or minus 0.125 inches of translation, and plus or minus 10.degree.-15.degree. of rotation. 21. A robotic apparatus for positioning an attached tool to perform an operation on a workpiece, comprising: (a) means to support said tool upon a linear translating arm, said support having transverse motion means to move in a first X-Y plane and vertical motion means to move in a direction perpendicular to said first plane; and (b) compliant float wrist for connecting the gripper tool to the support means to permit compliance between the workpiece having one portion thereof out of compliance within a range of plus or minus 0.125 inches in a translatory direction and plus or minus 10.degree. in a rotational direction from another portion of the workpiece which is prepositioned within a holding die, said compliant wrist having means for magnetically supporting a positioning member carrying the gripper tool, and pneumatic means for selectively separating and floating the positioning member from the supporting means to permit lateral adjustment of the positioning member in response to substantially small forces received from the gripper tool as it carries out gripping. 