An opto/acoustic navigation system allows a mobile robot to detect and mate with a floating plug-equipped charging unit upon detection of the need for recharging of the robot's storage battery. A plurality of infrared (IR) emitters and sensors located on the robot and adjacent to the charger in combination with the robot's acoustic sensors allow the robot to locate the charger, move to within a predetermined distance of the charger, maneuver to a position directly in front of the charger, and then back into engagement with the charger's floating plug.
Claims I claim: 1. In a mobile robot having a rechargeable storage battery, a method for guiding said robot to a charger positioned adjacent to a wall following detection of a low charge state in said storage battery, said method comprising: transmitting from the robot a first narrow beam infrared (IR) signal in a 360.degree. scan about the robot; detecting said first IR signal at the charger and transmitting a second generally omnidirectional IR signal from the charger in response to receipt of said first IR signal thereat; detecting said second IR signal at the robot and displacing said robot in a generally linear first direction toward the charger until the robot is within a predetermined distance from the charger; displacing the robot in a generally circular second direction when the robot is within said predetermined distance from the charger, wherein said second direction is initially transverse to said first direction and the charger is positioned at the center of the robot's circular displacement path; transmitting a third narrow beam IR signal from the robot in the direction of the charger during the circular displacement thereof; reflecting said third IR signal back to the robot when the robot is positioned directly in front of the charger; detecting the reflected third IR signal at the robot when the robot is positioned directly in front of the charger; displacing the robot in a third linear direction generally transverse to said second direction and toward the charger following detection of the reflected third IR signal at the robot to permit the robot to engage the charger for the recharging of its storate battery wherein the steps of transmitting the first and third IR signals includes directing the first and third IR signals through a generally vertically oriented narrow slot in a lateral portion of the robot. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of rotating the lateral portion of the robot containing said narrow slot about a vertical axis. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the first IR signal is transmitted at a first frequency and said second and third IR signals are transmitted at a second frequency. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of displacing said robot in a generally linear first direction toward and to within a predetermined distance from the charger includes directing a first acoustic signal toward said charger and detecting said first acoustic signal reflected therefrom. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the step of displacing the robot in a generally circular second direction when the robot is within said predetermined distance from the charger includes determining in which direction to turn the robot for positioning the robot directly in front of the charger as the robot is displaced in said second direction. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of determining in which direction to turn the robot for positioning the robot directly in front of the charger includes the steps of directing a second acoustic signal toward the charger, detecting said second acoustic signal reflected from the wall adjacent to the charger, comparing the distances from the robot to those portions of the wall to the left and right of the charger by means of said reflected second acoustic signal, and turning the robot in said second direction toward those portions of the wall which are farther from the robot relative to the charger. 7. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of detecting objects between the robot and the charger as the robot is displaced in said first direction toward the charger and displacing the robot upon detection of an object between the robot and the charger such that any such objects are no longer positioned between the robot and the charger. 8. For use with a mobile robot having an upper rotating head, a lower displaceable base and a rechargeable battery, a navigation system for directing said robot to a charger positioned adjacent to a wall following detection of a low charge state in said battery for the recharging thereof, said navigation system comprising: a first infrared (IR) signal source positioned in the rotating head of the robot for emitting first and second narrow beam IR signals wherein said first IR signal scans 360.degree. about the robot; wherein the upper rotating head of the robot includes a generally vertically oriented slot therein and said first IR signal source includes a plurality of light emitting (LED's) positioned within said rotating head and aligned in a liear array parallel with and adjacent to said head mounted slot; a second IR signal detector/source positioned adjacent to the charger and responsive to said first IR signal incident thereon for emitting a third, generally omnidirectional IR signal; a third IR signal detector positioned on the robot's rotating head and responsive to said third IR signal for providing a first direction of displacement from the robot to the charger; first sonar detection means positioned in the robot's base for detecting when the robot is at a predetermined distance from the charger along said first direction of displacement; second sonar detection means positioned in the robot's head for determining the direction the robot must turn to follow a generally circular path in positioning itself directly in front of the charger; and reflecting means positioned adjacent to the charger for reflecting the second IR signal back to the third IR signal detector when the robot is directly in front of the charger and for indicating to the robot when to turn for displacement toward and engagement with the charger. 9. The navigation system of claim 8 wherein said second IR signal detector/source includes a plurality of LED's and photodiodes. 10. The navigation system of claim 11 wherein said LED's and photodiodes are arranged to cover a 180.degree. sector forward of the wall adjacent to which the charger is positioned. 11. The navigation system of claim 10 wherein said photodiodes are positioned immediately adjacent to said reflecting means and wherein said photodiodes and said reflecting means are positioned on the wall at the same height as the robot's rotating head. 12. The navigation system of claim 11 wherein said LED's and photodiodes are coupled such that upon receipt of said first IR signal by said photodiodes, the LED's emit said third IR signal. 13. The navigation system of claim 8 wherein said third IR signal detector includes a photodiode. 14. The navigation system of claim 8 wherein said first sonar detection means includes an acoustic transducer positioned on a forward portion of the robot's base. 15. The navigation system of claim 8 wherein said second sonar detection means includes the combination of a vertically directed acoustic transducer and a rotating reflector aligned therewith for reflecting acoustic signals in a generally horizontal direction. 16. The navigation system of claim 8 wherein said first and second IR signals are at different frequencies. 