A chip carrier socket comprises a frame which defines and surrounds a space for receiving a chip carrier. A plurality of elongated contacts are carried by the frame, the contacts each defining a first section which resides within the inner surface of the frame, and are positioned to conductivity engage peripheral contacts of a chip carrier carried in the space. The contacts also each define a second section positioned on one side of the chip carrier socket to engage conductive members of a circuit board when the socket is carried thereon. The second sections each define a contact end which projects inwardly. The chip carrier socket defines an open aperture within and through the frame adjacent the inner surface so that the inwardly projecting contact ends are visible while the socket is carried on a circuit board.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A chip carrier socket which comprises a frame having an inner and outer surface which defines and surrounds a space for receiving a chip carrier, and a plurality of elongated contacts carried by said frame, said contacts each defining a first section which resides within the inner surface of the frame and positioned to conductively engage a chip carrier carried in said space, said contacts also each defining a second section positioned on one side of said chip carrier socket to engage conductive members of a circuit board when said socket is carried thereon, the second sections each defining a contact end which projects inwardly from said frame, said socket defining an open aperture within and through said frame adjacent said inner surface, whereby said inwardly projecting contact ends are exposed in the upward perpendicular direction while the socket is carried on a circuit board. 2. The chip carrier socket of claim 1 in which a panel member is positioned in a horizontally central portion of said space. 3. The chip carrier socket of claim 2 in which said panel member is positioned adjacent said one side of the socket. 4. The chip carrier socket of claim 2 in which said panel member is connected to said frame by thin struts. 5. The chip carrier socket of claim 1 in which the first sections of said contacts extend transversely of said frame, said contacts each comprising a convoluted, elongated, linear, conductive metal member which further defines a third section and a fourth section which each extend transversely of said frame, said first, third, and fourth sections being separated from each other by turn-back loop sections to define a pair of convolutions, said second section being connected to the fourth section. 6. The chip carrier socket of claim 5 in which each contact is positioned in a transverse slot defined in said frame, said slot having an inwardly facing opening, said fourth section of the contact being positioned against the outer wall of said slot, said outer wall being opposed to the inward opening thereof, whereby said convolutions function as a spring member to provide inward and outward resiliency to said first section. 7. This chip carrier socket of claim 6 in which said pair of convolutions are in side-by-side relation. 8. The chip carrier socket of claim 7 in which said frame defines a height parallel to its axis of no more than 1/4 inch. 9. The chip carrier socket of claim 6 in which each transverse slot defines a lateral branch slot, said first section being connected, at its end opposed to its connected turn-back loop section, to a fifth section that defines a contact end, said contact end occupying said lateral branch slot to permit a spring preload to be placed on the first section of said contact. 10. The chip carrier socket of claim 1 in which said frame defines opposed slots for receiving an extraction tool. 11. A chip carrier socket which comprises a frame having an inner and outer surface which defines and surrounds a space for receiving a chip carrier, and a plurality of elongated contacts carried by said frame, said contacts each defining a first section which resides within the inner surface of the frame and positioned to conductively engage contacts of a ship carrier carried in said space, said contacts each defining a second section positioned on one side of said chip carrier socket to engage conductive members of a circuit board when said socket is carried thereon, the second sections each defining a contact end which projects inwardly from said frame, said socket defining an open aperture within and through said frame adjacent said inner surface, whereby said inwardly projecting contact ends are exposed in the upward perpendicular direction while the socket is carried on a circuit board, said first section extending transversely of said frame, said contacts each comprising a convoluted, elongated, linear, conductive metal member which further defines a third section and a fourth section which each extends transversely of said frame, said first, third, and fourth sections being separated from each other by turnback loop sections to define a pair of convolutions, said second section being connected to the fourth section; and a panel member positioned in a central portion of said space defined by the frame. 12. The chip carrier socket of claim 11 in which said panel member is positioned adjacent the one side of the socket at which said second sections are positioned, said panel member being connected to said frame by thin struts. 13. The chip carrier socket of claim 12 in which each contact is positioned in a transverse slot defined in said frame, each slot having an inwardly facing opening, said fourth section of the contact being positioned against an outer wall of said slot, said outer wall being opposed to the inward opening thereof, whereby said convolutions function as a spring member to provide inward and outward resiliency to said first section. 14. The chip carrier socket of claim 13 in which said pair of convolutions are in side-by-side relation. 15. The chip carrier socket of claim 14 in which each transverse slot defines a lateral branch slot, said first section being connected at its end opposed to its connected turn-back loop section to a fifth section that defines a contact end, said contact end occupying said lateral branch slot to permit a spring preload to be placed on the first section of said contact. 16. The chip carrier socket of claim 15 in which said frame defines a height parallel to its axis of no more than one fourth inch. 17. The chip carrier socket of claim 16 in which said frame defines opposed slots for receiving an extraction tool. 18. A chip carrier socket which comprises a frame having an inner and outer surface which defines and surrounds a space for receiving a chip carrier, and a plurality of elongated contacts carried by said frame, said contacts each defining a first section which resides within the inner surface of the frame and positioned to conductively engage contacts of a chip carrier carried in said space, said contacts also each defining a second section positioned on one said of said chip carrier socket to engage conductive members of a circuit board when said socket is carried thereon, the second sections each defining a contact end which projects inwardly from said frame, said socket defining an open aperture within and through said frame adjacent said inner surfaces, whereby said inwardly projecting contact ends are exposed in the upward perpendicular direction while the socket is carried on a circuit board, and a panel member positioned in a central portion of said space. 19. The chip carrier socket of claim 18 in which said panel member is positioned adjacent said one side of the socket. 20. The chip carrier socket of claim 19 in which said panel member is connected to said frame by thin struts. 