A robotic system that can be used to treat a patient. The robotic system includes a mobile robot that has a camera. The mobile robot is controlled by a remote station that has a monitor. A physician can use the remote station to move the mobile robot into view of a patient. An image of the patient is transmitted from the robot camera to the remote station monitor. A medical personnel at the robot site can enter patient information into the system through a user interface. The patient information can be stored in a server. The physician can access the information from the remote station. The remote station may provide graphical user interfaces that display the patient information and provide both a medical tool and a patient management plan.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system, comprising: a mobile robot that has a camera and is located at a robot site; a user interface that is located at the robot site and allows medical information to be entered by a user; and, a remote station that is coupled to said mobile robot to control movement of said mobile robot, said remote station includes a monitor that is coupled to said mobile robot camera, and displays a graphical user interface that provides said medical information. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a records server that is coupled to said remote station and said user interface and stores said medical information. 3. The system of claim 1, further comprising an image server that is coupled to said remote station and stores a plurality of medical, images. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein said medical information includes patient statistics. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said remote station provides a medical tool. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said remote station provides a graphical user interface that can receive information and display a patient management plan. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said medical tool is a stroke evaluation. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said user interface is a computer terminal. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said mobile robot includes a monitor coupled to a camera of said remote station. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said mobile robot includes a speaker and a microphone. 11. A robotic system, comprising: a mobile robot that has a camera; a user interface that allows patient information and patient statistics to be entered by a user; a remote station that is coupled to said mobile robot to control movement of said mobile robot, said remote station includes a monitor that is coupled to said mobile robot camera, and that displays a plurality of graphical user interfaces, said graphical user interfaces provide said patient statistics, a medical tool and a patient management plan. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising a records server that is coupled to said remote station and said user interface and stores said patient information and said patient statistics. 13. The system of claim 11, further comprising an image server that is coupled to said remote station and stores a plurality of medical images. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein at least one of said graphical user interfaces displays at least one of said medical images. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein said user interface is a computer terminal. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein said mobile robot includes a monitor coupled to a camera of said remote station. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said mobile robot includes a speaker and a microphone. 18. A method for treating a patient, comprising: moving a mobile robot into a vicinity of a patient at a robot site through commands from a remote station; viewing the patient at the remote station through a camera of the mobile robot; entering information about the patient through a user interface located at the robot site; displaying the patient information at the remote station; and, displaying a patient management plan at the remote station. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising displaying a medical image at the remote station. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the patient management plan includes a calculated dosage at the remote station. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein the patient management plan is a stroke evaluation. 22. A graphical user interface that is displayed on a monitor of a remote station that controls a mobile robot, the mobile robot having a camera, comprising: a graphical user interface that includes; a patient information area; a medical assessment area; and, a patient management plan area. 23. The user interface of claim 22, wherein selection within said medical assessment area causes a display of a NIHSS scale questionnaire. 24. The user interface of claim 22, wherein selection within said patient management plan area causes a display with input fields and a calculation button that provides a calculated dosage when selected. 