A tool module associated with an end-effector for a robot arm that includes both linear and rotational locking mechanisms providing movement in five degrees of freedom. The tool module includes an integrated locking assembly that includes a linear locking mechanism and a rotary locking mechanism that are simultaneously locked and unlocked. The linear locking mechanism locks to a rod and the rotary locking mechanism locks and unlocks a shaft that is rigidly coupled to a swing arm. An opposite end of the swing arm includes another linear locking mechanism that locks and unlocks a shaft supporting a vacuum cup at an opposite end. The vacuum cup is mounted to a ball joint on the shaft that allows the vacuum cup to pivot. By locking and unlocking the locking mechanisms of the tool module, the end-effector can be readily configured to grasp and hold various parts of different dimensions and shapes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end-effector operable to be coupled to a robot arm, said end-effector comprising: a plurality of end-effector rods; and a plurality of tool modules selectively coupled to the end-effector rods, each of the tool modules including an integrated locking assembly having a first linear locking mechanism and a rotary locking mechanism provided in a common housing, said first linear locking mechanism including opposing locking plates having aligned bores that lock to an end-effector rod, said rotary locking mechanism including an output shaft, said locking assembly being actuated to unlock the linear locking mechanism so that the tool module can slide along the end-effector rod and unlock the rotary locking mechanism to allow the output shaft to rotate where the first linear locking mechanism and the rotary locking mechanism are simultaneously locked and unlocked. 2. The end-effector according to claim 1 further comprising a swing arm rigidly mounted to the output shaft of the rotary locking mechanism. 3. The end-effector according to claim 2 further comprising a second linear locking mechanism mounted to the swing arm opposite to the output shaft, said tool module further including a vacuum cup shaft mounted to the second linear locking mechanism and a vacuum cup mounted to an end of the vacuum cup shaft opposite to the second linear locking mechanism where the vacuum cup can be raised and lowered using the second linear locking mechanism. 4. The end-effector according to claim 3 further comprising a ball joint mounted to the vacuum cup shaft opposite the second linear locking mechanism, said vacuum cup be mounted to the ball joint so that the combination of the first linear locking mechanism, the second linear locking mechanism, the rotary locking mechanism and the ball joint allow the tool module to have movement in five degrees of freedom. 5. The end-effector according to claim 1 wherein the rotary locking mechanism includes rollers positioned between the housing and a cam, said rollers being wedged between the housing and the cam to lock the rotary locking mechanism and being positioned in an open position between the housing and the cam to unlock the rotary locking mechanism. 6. The end-effector according to claim 5 wherein the rotary locking mechanism includes a plate and a plate spring, where the plate spring biases the plate to a locking position and pressure applied to the plate against the bias of the plate spring causes driving lugs to push the rollers to the open position to unlock the rotary locking mechanism. 7. The end-effector according to claim 6 wherein the driving lugs are T-shaped driving lugs each including a key portion that is slidably engaged in a slot in the cam, said rollers including an indented neck portion where an extended flange on a drive portion of the T-shaped lug is positioned within the indented neck portion of opposing rollers when the rotary locking mechanism is in the locked position and wherein sliding the key portion of the lug in the slot causes the extended flange to be forced out of the indented portion and cause opposing rollers to be pushed to the open position. 8. The end-effector according to claim 5 wherein the rotary locking mechanism includes a plate and a plate spring, where the plate spring biases the plate to a locking position and pressure applied to the plate against the bias of the plate spring causes a first angled wedge member to push against a second angled wedge member so that the first and second wedge members push against the rollers to push the rollers into the open position. 9. The end-effector according to 1 wherein the integrated locking assembly includes an opening that accepts a pneumatic air source, said pneumatic air source causing the first linear locking mechanism and the rotary locking mechanism to be unlocked. 10. The end-effector according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of end-effector rods include a main beam, a plurality of cross-rods and end rods coupled to the cross-rods to form a frame. 11. A tool module comprising: an integrated locking assembly having a first linear locking mechanism and a rotary locking mechanism provided in a common housing, said first linear locking mechanism including opposing locking plates having aligned bores that can lock onto a rod, said rotary locking mechanism including an output shaft, said locking assembly being actuated to unlock the linear locking mechanism so that the tool module can slide along the rod and unlock the rotary locking mechanism to allow the output shaft to rotate where the first linear locking mechanism and the rotary locking mechanism are simultaneously locked and unlocked; and a swing arm rigidly mounted to the output shaft of the rotary locking mechanism. 12. The tool module according to claim 11 further comprising a second linear locking mechanism mounted to the swing arm opposite to the output shaft, said tool module further comprising a vacuum cup shaft mounted to the second linear locking mechanism and a vacuum cup mounted to an end of the vacuum cup shaft opposite to the second linear locking mechanism where the vacuum cup can be raised and lowered using the second linear locking mechanism. 13. The tool module according to claim 12 further comprising a ball joint mounted to the vacuum cup shaft opposite the second linear locking mechanism, said vacuum cup be mounted to the ball joint so that the combination of the first linear locking mechanism, the second linear locking mechanism, the rotary locking mechanism and the ball joint allow the tool module to have movement in five degrees of freedom. 14. The tool module according to claim 11 wherein the rotary locking mechanism includes rollers positioned between the housing and a cam, said rollers being wedged between the housing and the cam to lock the rotary locking mechanism and being positioned in an open position between the housing and the cam to unlock the rotary locking mechanism. 15. The tool module according to claim 14 wherein the rotary locking mechanism includes a plate and a plate spring, where the plate spring biases the plate to a locking position and pressure applied to the plate against the bias of the plate spring causes driving lugs to push the rollers to the open position to unlock the rotary locking mechanism. 16. The tool module according to claim 15 wherein the driving lugs are T-shaped driving lugs each including a key portion that is slidably engaged in a slot in the cam, said rollers including an indented neck portion where an extended flange on a drive portion of the T-shaped lug is positioned within the indented neck portion of opposing rollers when the rotary locking mechanism is in the locked position and wherein sliding the key portion of the lug in the slot causes the extended flange to be forced out of the indented portion and cause opposing rollers to be pushed to the open position. 17. The tool module according to claim 14 wherein the rotary locking mechanism includes a plate and a plate spring, where the plate spring biases the plate to a locking position and pressure applied to the plate against the bias of the plate spring causes a first angled wedge member to push against a second angled wedge member so that the first and second wedge members push against the rollers to push the rollers into the open position. 18. The tool module according to 11 wherein the integrated locking assembly includes an opening that accepts a pneumatic air source, said pneumatic air source causing the first linear locking mechanism and the rotary locking mechanism to be unlocked. 19. A tool module that can be selectively coupled to an end-effector rod, said tool-module comprising: an integrated locking assembly having a first linear locking mechanism and a rotary locking mechanism provided in a common housing, said first linear locking mechanism including opposing locking plates having aligned bores that can lock onto an end-effector rod, said rotary locking mechanism including an output shaft, said locking assembly being actuated to unlock the linear locking mechanism so that the tool module can slide along the end-effector rod and unlock the rotary locking mechanism to allow the output shaft to rotate where the first linear locking mechanism and the rotary locking mechanism are simultaneously locked and unlocked; a swing arm assembly including a swing arm rigidly mounted to the output shaft of the rotary locking mechanism so that when the rotary locking mechanism is unlocked, the swing arm is able to rotate, said swing arm assembly further including a second linear locking mechanism mounted to the swing arm opposite to the output shaft; and a vacuum cup assembly including a vacuum cup shaft slightly mounted to the second linear locking mechanism and a vacuum cup mounted to an end of the vacuum cup shaft opposite to the second linear locking mechanism, said vacuum shaft assembly further including a ball joint mounted to the vacuum cup shaft opposite to the second linear locking mechanism, said vacuum cup being mounted to the ball joint so that the combination of the first linear locking mechanism, the second mechanism, the rotary locking mechanism and the ball joint allow the tool module to have movement in five degrees of freedom. 20. The tool module according to 19 wherein the integrated locking assembly includes an opening that accepts a pneumatic air source, said pneumatic air source causing the first linear locking mechanism and the rotary locking mechanism to be unlocked. 