A method of using a programmed data processor to operate a video information selection system wherein a viewer can select video information to be displayed on a common channel of the television monitors of all viewers. The viewer accesses the data processor by use of a telephone keypad and selects video information to be broadcast by inputting a digital code. The data processor processes the signal generated, retrieves the video information from memory and places it on queue to be broadcast. A plurality of such slave video information selection systems can be remotely controlled, monitored and operated by a host programmed data processor at a location remote from the slave video information selection systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for the remote viewing of selected video program material at viewer remote receiving locations, comprising: a) a television broadcasting device for providing a television signal for transmission to said remote locations over a single common channel; b) a device for providing program signals to said television broadcasting means; c) a least one selectable source of video program materials; d) a selection device for generating a video program selection signal from a viewer remote receiving location with such selection being made through a telephone system keypad; e) a dedication device for generating a dedication message from a viewer corresponding to a video program selected by a viewer; and f) a programmed data processor, coupled to said at least one selectable source of video program materials, said dedication device and said device for providing program signals, for responding to telephonically transmitted selection and dedication signals from a remote location and for providing control signals to said at least one selectable source of video program materials in accordance with the desired video program selected by a viewer such that the selected video program and the corresponding dedication message generated from said dedication device are coupled by said device for providing program signals to said television broadcasting means for transmission over the single common channel to all of the viewer remote receiving locations viewing the single common channel irrespective of whether the viewers at such locations have selected any video program material so that a viewer at a remote receiving location may tune a television receiver at that location to the single common channel in order to sequentially view all of the selected video programs and corresponding dedications transmitted by said television broadcasting device over the single common channel. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said dedication device includes a keyboard, connected to said programmed data processor, for inputting to said programmed data processor a dedication message received by a viewer. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said dedication device includes a voice interface for receiving telephonic voice dedication messages from viewers and for converting the voice dedication messages from analog format into digital format for use by said programmed data processor. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising an audio mixing device, connected to said voice interface, for converting the digitally formatted dedication message signals into audio dedication message signals and for mixing audio portions of a selected video program with the audio dedication message signals. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a dedication message is broadcast by said broadcasting device at essentially the same time a corresponding selected video program is broadcast by said broadcasting device. 6. A remote viewing system, comprising: a television broadcasting device for providing a television signal for transmission to viewer remote receiving locations over a single common channel; a control station including: a) a device for providing video program material signals to said television broadcasting means; b) at least one selectable source of video program materials; c) a selection device for generating a video program selection signal from a viewer remote receiving location with such selection being made through a telephone system keypad; and d) a first programmed data processor coupled to said at least one selectable source of video program materials and said device for providing video program signals to said television broadcasting device, said first programmed data processor being responsive to a video program selection signal transmitted from a remote location for providing control signals to said at least one selectable source of video program materials in accordance with the desired video program material selected by a viewer such that the selected video program material is coupled by said device for providing video program signals to said television broadcasting device for transmission over the single common channel to all of the viewer remote receiving locations viewing the single common channel irrespective of whether the viewers at such locations have selected any video program material so that a viewer at a remote receiving location may tune a television receiver at that location to the single common channel in order to sequentially view all of the selected video program materials transmitted by said television broadcasting device over the single common channel; and a remotely located monitoring and controlling device, including a second programmed data processor, for coupling to said first programmed data processor for two-way communication between said first and second programmed data processors for monitoring and controlling the operation of said control station by providing instructions for operating said control station directly to said first programmed data processor. 7. The system according too claim 6, wherein said second programmed data processor controls which video program material is provided by said control station to said broadcasting device. 8. The system according to claim 6, wherein said second programmed data processor is coupled to said first programmed data processor via a telephone link. 9. The system according to claim 6, wherein said second programmed data processor sends and receives data files to and from said first programmed data processor, respectively. 10. The system according to claim 6, wherein said selection device includes a low power radio-frequency transmitter and said control station includes a radio-frequency receiver for receiving radio-frequency selection signals transmitted by a viewer. 11. The system according to claim 6, wherein said selection and controlling device includes a two-way cable box for transmitting video selections to said control station and for receiving video material transmitted from said control station. 12. The system according to claim 6, wherein said monitoring selectively monitors the operation of a plurality of remote control stations. 13. The system according to claim 6, wherein said monitoring and controlling device selectively controls the operation of at least one remotely located control station. 14. The system according to claim 6, wherein said selectable source of video program materials includes magnetic tapes. 15. The system according to claim 6, wherein said selectable source of video program materials includes laser disks automatically retrieved and played by a robot. 16. The system according to claim 6, wherein said second programmed data processor monitors the number of times particular video materials have been selected over a predetermined time period. 17. The system according to claim 6, wherein said second programmed data processor monitors the revenues generated by said control station. 18. The system according to claim 6, wherein said second programmed data processor controls the selection of commercial advertising provided by said control station to said broadcasting device. 19. A system for the remote viewing of selected video program material at viewer remote receiving locations, comprising: a) a television broadcasting device for providing a television signal for transmission to said remote locations over a single common channel; b) a plurality of selectable sources of program material having video and audio portions; c) a selection device for generating a video program selection signal from a viewer remote receiving location with such selection being made through a telephone system keypad; d) a switching device connected to said plurality of selectable sources of program materials, for selectively switching video and audio portions of the program materials to said television broadcasting device; e) a programmed data processor coupled to said plurality of selectable sources of program materials and said switching device, said programmed data processor being responsive to selection signals transmitted from a remote location for providing control signals to said at least one selectable source of program materials and to said switching device in accordance with the desired program material selected by a viewer such that selected video portions from one selectable source and selected audio portions from another source are transmitted to said television broadcasting device for broadcast over the single common channel to all of said viewer remote receiving locations viewing the single common channel irrespective of whether the viewers at such locations have selected any program material so that a viewer at a remote receiving location may tune a television receiver at that location to the single common channel in order to sequentially view all of the selected program materials broadcast by said television broadcasting means over the single common channel. 20. The system according to claim 19, further comprising a phone interface, connected to said programmed data processor, for receiving multiple telephonically transmitted program selection signals over a plurality of telephone request lines. 21. The system according to claim 20, wherein said phone interface polls each request line in sequence in order to determine if any of the lines is ringing. 22. The system according to claim 19, wherein said switching device further includes a generator device for generating selected program materials such that a video portion from a first source is mixed with an audio portion from a second source. 23. The system according to claim 19, wherein said switching device includes a graphic interface device, connected to said programmed data processor, for superimposing textual and graphic information on the video portion of the selected program material. 24. The system according to claim 19, wherein the video portion includes a menu listing several program selections with each selection assigned a corresponding numeric code. 25. The system according to claim 24, wherein a viewer selects a program by telephonically transmitting the corresponding numeric code. 26. A method for the remote viewing of selected video program material at viewer remote receiving locations comprising: a) providing at a control station at least one selectable source of video program materials; b) telephonically transmitting video program selection signals and corresponding dedication message signals from a remote location to the control station; c) receiving at the control station the transmitted selection signals and corresponding dedication message signals; d) retrieving from the at least one selectable source of video program materials the selected video program selected by a viewer. e) transmitting the selected video program and the corresponding dedication message by means of a television broadcasting device over a single common channel to all of the viewer remote receiving locations viewing the single common channel irrespective of whether the viewers at such locations have selected any video program material; f) tuning a television receiver at a remote viewing location to the single common channel; and g) sequentially viewing all of the selected video programs and the corresponding dedication messages transmitted by the television broadcasting device over the single common channel. 27. The method according to claim 26, wherein the receiving step (c) includes the step of inputting, via a keyboard located at the control station, a dedication message to be broadcast over the single common channel. 28. The method according to claim 26, wherein the receiving step (c) includes the steps of receiving telephonic voice dedication messages from viewers via a voice interface means and converting the voice messages from analog format into digital format for use by the control station. 29. The method according to claim 28, wherein the receiving step (c) further includes the steps of converting the digitally formatted dedication message signals into audio detection message signals and mixing audio portions of a selected video program with the audio dedication message signals. 30. The method according to claim 26, wherein the transmitting step (e) includes broadcasting the dedication message at essentially the same time the corresponding selected video program is broadcast. 31. A method for the remote viewing of selected program material at viewer remote receiving locations, comprising: a) providing at a control station at least one selectable source of video program materials; b) transmitting a video program selection signal from a viewer at a remote receiving location to the control station using a telephone keypad; c) receiving at the control station the transmitted selection signal; d) retrieving from the at least one selectable source of video program materials the selected video program; e) transmitting selected video program material to a television broadcasting device remotely located from the control station; f) transmitting the selected video program over a single common channel to all of the viewer remote receiving locations viewing the single common channel irrespective of whether the viewers at such locations have selected any video program material; g) tuning a television receiver at a remote receiving location to the single common channel; h) sequentially viewing all of the selected video program materials transmitted by said television broadcasting device over the single common channel; and i) remotely monitoring and controlling the operation of the control station during the steps a-e. 32. The method according to claim 31, further comprising the step of remotely controlling the video program material transmitted to the television broadcasting device. 33. The method according to claim 31, wherein the remotely monitoring and controlling step (i) is accomplished via a telephone link. 34. The method according to claim 31, wherein the remotely monitoring and controlling step (i) includes the steps of sending and receiving data files to and from the control station, respectively. 35. The method according to claim 31, wherein the transmitting step (b) includes the step of transmitting the video program selection signal using a low power radio-frequency transmitter and the receiving step (c) includes the step of receiving radio-frequency video program selection signals transmitted by a viewer. 36. The method according to claim 31, wherein the transmitting step (b) includes the step of transmitting video program selection signals over a two-way cable box and the receiving step (c) includes the step of receiving the transmitted video material over the two-way cable box. 37. The method according to claim 31, wherein the remotely monitoring and controlling step (i) further includes selectively monitoring the operation of a plurality of remote control stations. 38. The method according to claim 31, further comprising selectively controlling the operation of a plurality of remote control stations. 39. The method according to claim 31, wherein the at least one selectable source of video program materials includes magnetic tapes. 40. The method according to claim 31, wherein the at least one selectable source of video program materials includes laser disks automatically retrieved and played by a robot. 41. The method according to claim 31, wherein the remotely monitoring and controlling step (i) further includes a step of monitoring the number of times particular video materials have been selected over a predetermined time period. 42. The method according to claim 31, wherein the remotely monitoring and controlling step (i) further includes a step of monitoring revenues generated at the control station. 43. The method according to claim 31, further including the step of remotely controlling the selection of commercial advertising transmitted to the television broadcasting device. 44. A method for remote viewing of selected video program material at viewer remote receiving locations, comprising: a) providing at a control station a plurality of selectable sources of program material having video and audio portions; b) transmitting program material selection signals from a viewer at a remote receiving location to the control station; c) receiving at the control station the transmitted selection signals; d) retrieving from the at least one selectable source of program materials the program material selected by a viewer; e) transmitting selected video portions from one selectable source and selected audio portions from another selectable source to a television broadcasting means remotely located from the control station; f) transmitting the selected video and audio portions over a single common channel to all of the viewer remote receiving locations viewing the single common channel irrespective of whether the viewers at such locations have selected any program material; g) tuning a television receiver at a remote viewing location to the single common channel; and h) sequentially viewing all of the selected program materials transmitted by the television broadcasting means over the single common channel. 45. The method according to claim 44, wherein the receiving step (c) includes the step of receiving multiple, telephonically-transmitted, program selection signals over a plurality of telephone request lines. 46. The system according to claim 45, wherein the receiving step (c) further includes the step of polling each request line in sequence in order to determine if any of the lines is ringing. 47. The method of according to claim 44, wherein the transmitting step (e) further includes the step of generating selected program materials such that a video portion from a first source is mixed with an audio portion from a second source. 48. The method according to claim 44, wherein the transmitting step (e) includes the step of superimposing textual and graphic information on the video portion of the selected program material. 49. The method according to claim 44, wherein the transmitting step (b) includes the step of telephonically transmitting a numeric code corresponding to a program selection. 