An engineered lighting system for use in an inspection system is comprised of an array of light emitting diodes. A specimen is brought into the viewing area, and a current pulse is provided to the diodes of the array to selectively flash all or a portion of the diodes of the array. Reflected light from the specimen is sensed and a digitized image is generated therefrom. An illumination level of the digitized image is adjustable, in whole or in part, by varying the effective lighting intensity of one or more of the diodes of the array during a flash period. The digitized image of the specimen is compared to data indicative of acceptability of the specimen, and acceptance or rejection of the specimen is decided on a basis of a comparison therebetween.
Claims It is now claimed: 1. An engineered inspection lighting system comprising: a plurality of directed primary light generating elements directed to a primary light field; means for securing the primary light generating elements in a preselected array arrangement to form a primary lighting array; means adapted for directing light from the primary light generating elements to the primary light field; supply means for providing a single current pulse to selected light generating elements of the primary lighting array to illuminate an associated specimen within the primary light field; and the primary light field including a plurality of sections, the primary light generating elements being positioned in the primary lighting array such that each primary light generating element thereof does not contribute light equally to each section of the primary light field and wherein light in the light field from at least a portion of the light generating elements of the array is overlapped with light from neighboring light generating elements of the array. 2. The engineered lighting system of claim 1 wherein the primary light generating elements are comprised of electrically powered solid state lighting devices. 3. The engineered lighting system of claim 2 wherein the supply means further comprises means for supplying current of at least one of a selected magnitude or duration to selected ones of the primary light generating elements. 4. The engineered lighting system of claim 2 further comprising control means for providing a high current pulse to the primary array for illumination of the associated specimen within the primary light field. 5. The engineered lighting system of claim 4 wherein the primary lighting array is generally planar. 6. The engineered lighting system of claim 5 further comprising a diffuser means for diffusing at least a portion of light from the light generating elements to provide a more uniform intensity in the light field. 7. The engineered lighting system of claim 5 further comprising means for varying an intensity of light emitted from a first subset of light generating elements of the primary array in relation to an intensity of light emitted from a second subset of light generating elements of the primary array. 8. The engineered lighting system of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of directed secondary light generating elements; means for securing the secondary light generating elements in a preselected array arrangement to form a secondary lighting array; means adapted for directing light from the secondary light emitting elements to an area which includes light of the light field; and the supply means including means for supplying a single current pulse to selected light generating elements of the secondary lighting array simultaneously with a pulse of current supplied to selected light generating elements of the primary lighting array. 9. The engineered lighting system of claim 8 wherein the primary lighting array is generally planar and light emitted from the secondary lighting array propagates such that a component of a direction of travel of light therefrom is parallel to the plane of the primary array. 10. An inspection system comprising: a plurality of directed primary light generating elements; means for securing the primary light generating elements in a preselected array arrangement to form a primary lighting array; means adapted for directing light from the primary light generating elements to a viewing area; the viewing area including a plurality of sections, the primary light generating elements being positioned in the primary lighting array such that each primary light element thereof does not contribute equally to each section of the viewing area; supply means for simultaneously providing a current pulse to each of selected of the light generating elements of the primary lighting array such that an associated specimen present in the viewing area will be illuminated solely by one current pulse; and monitor means adapted for sensing reflected light emitted from the primary lighting array after a reflection thereof from the associated specimen. 11. The inspection system of claim 10 further comprising means for generating specimen data indicative a physical characteristic of the associated specimen in accordance with sensed reflected light. 12. The inspection system of claim 11 further comprising testing means for testing the data against data indicative of a desired preselected physical characteristic of the associated specimen. 13. The inspection system of claim 12 further comprising indicator means for indicating acceptability of the associated specimen in accordance with an output of the testing means. 14. The inspection system of claim 13 further comprising: a secondary light generating element; the supply means including means for supplying a single current pulse to selected elements of the secondary lighting array simultaneously with a pulse of current supplied to selected light generating elements of the primary lighting array; and means adapted for directing light from the secondary light generating element to the viewing area. 15. The inspection system of claim 13 further comprising means for transporting the associated specimen to the viewing area. 16. The inspection system of claim 15 further comprising means for sensing a presence of the associated specimen in the viewing area. 17. The inspection system of claim 16 further comprising means for performing one of acceptance and rejection of a specimen in accordance with an output of the indicator means. 18. A method of lighting a specimen in an inspection system comprising the steps of: supplying single current pulse to an array of light generating elements to illuminate an associated specimens; generating light from each light generating element of the array as a result of the supplying of current thereto; generating a primary light field from light from the array, the light field including a plurality of sections in which each lighting element of the array does not contribute equally to an intensity of light in each section; directing light from the array to a viewing area; exposing a specimen to light from the array; sensing light from the array after reflection thereof from the specimen; and generating data indicative of a physical characteristic of the specimen in accordance with sensed light generated by the single current pulse. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of sequentially bringing a subsequent associated specimen into the viewing area. 20. The method of claim 18 further comprising the step of testing the data against data indicative of a desired preselected physical characteristic of each associated specimen. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising the step of performing one of rejection and acceptance of a specimen in accordance with the testing. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising the step of sensing a presence of the associated specimen in the viewing area. 