A robot is provided with an arm having a plurality of motor driven joints. A power amplifier supplies drive current to each joint motor. Respective digital feedback control loop arrangements generate voltage commands from which signals are generated to operate the power amplifiers. Digital motor current, position and velocity feedback signals are generated for position, velocity and torque control loops in the digital feedback control loop arrangement. System resource facilities provide general support for the operation of the digital feedback control loops and include three separate communications controllers, a dual port microprocessor interfacing memory, a time stamp clock, a program memory and a nonvolatile data memory. A system level microprocessor based system or a microprocessor based position/velocity control system executes motion software from the program memory means according to whether the user desires an expanded performance robot control or a basic robot control. In the basic control, only the position/velocity microprocessor system is included and it is coupled to the system resource facilities. In the expanded control, both microprocessor systems are included and both are coupled to the system resource facilities.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: an arm having a plurality of joints; each of said joints having an electric motor drive; a power amplifier operable to supply drive current to each motor; respective digital feedback control loop means for respectively controlling said power amplifiers for said joint motors; means for generating digital motor current, position and velocity feedback signals for said control loop means; each of said digital feedback control loop means including digital position and velocity control loops; each of said feedback control loop means further including a digital torque control loop responsive to torque commands from said position and velocity control loops to generate voltage commands for operating the associated power amplifier and joint motor; system resource means providing general support for the operation of said digital feedback control loop means and including data communicating means for interfacing with local input/output devices and other systems and devices; first microprocessor servo means coupled to said system resource means and generating said voltage commands in response to position commands and said current, position and velocity feedback signals; means for generating said position commands in accordance with predetermined moves set forth in a robot program; said position command generating means including planning program means for generating a motion profile with specified motion parameters for implementing each robot program command; said position command generating means further including trajectory program means for generating said position commands to satisfy each robot program command in accordance with its motion profile; second microprocessor means adapted to be coupled to said system resource means; said position command generating means further including said first microprocessor servo means for execution of said planning and trajectory program means in a basic control configuration for said robot or said second microprocessor means for execution of said planning and trajectory program means in an expanded performance control configuration for said robot; and interfacing memory means for coupling said first and second microprocessor means for data communications therebetween when the expanded control configuration is employed. 2. A robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein program memory means are provided for storing said planning and trajectory program means for loading into either of said microprocessor means. 3. A robot as set forth in claim 2 wherein said system resource means includes said program memory means. 4. A robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein said communication means includes a DMA controller for managing and executing data communications for the robot control loop means thereby freeing said microprocessor means from corresponding communications load burden. 5. A robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein said interfacing memory means is a dual port memory. 6. A robot as set forth in claim 1 wherein said system resource means includes said interfacing memory means. 7. A robot as set forth in claim 4 wherein said system resource means includes said interfacing memory means and means are provided for arbitrating in accordance with predetermined rules access to specific facilities within said system resource means by said first and second microprocessor means and said DMA controller. 8. A digital control for a robot having a plurality of arm joints, and said control comprising: an electric motor for driving each of the robot arm joints; a power amplifier operable to supply drive current to each motor; respective digital feedback control loop means for respectively controlling said power amplifiers for said joint motors; means for generating digital motor current, position and velocity feedback signals for said control loop means; each of said digital feedback control loop means including digital position and velocity control loops; each of said feedback control loop means further including a digital torque control loop responsive to torque commands from said position and velocity control loops to generate voltage commands for operating the associated power amplifier and joint motor; system resource means providing general support for the operation of said digital feedback control loop means and including data communicating means for interfacing with local input/output devices and other systems and devices; first microprocessor servo means coupled to said system resource means and generating said voltage commands in response to position commands and said current, position and velocity feedback signals; means for generating said position commands in accordance with predetermined moves set forth in a robot program; said position command generating means including planning program means for generating a motor profile with specified motion parameters for implementing each robot program command; said position command generating means further including trajectory program means for generating said position commands to satisfy each robot program command in accordance with its motion profile; second microprocessor means adapted to be coupled to said system resource means; said position command generating means further including said first microprocessor servo means for execution of said planning and trajectory program means in a basic control configuration for said robot or said second microprocessor means for execution of said planning and trajectory program means in an expanded performance control configuration for said robot; and interfacing memory means for coupling said first and second microprocessor means for data communications therebetween when the expanded control configuration is employed. 9. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 8 wherein program memory means are provided for storing said planning and trajectory program means for loading into either of said microprocessor means. 10. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 9 wherein said system resource means includes said program memory means 11. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 8 wherein said communication means includes a DMA controller for managing and executing data communications for the robot control loop means thereby freeing said microprocessor means from corresponding communications load burden. 12. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 8 wherein said interfacing memory means is a dual port memory. 13. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 8 wherein said system resource means includes said interfacing memory means. 14. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 11 wherein said system resource means includes said interfacing memory means and means are provided for arbitrating in accordance with predetermined rules access to specific facilities within said system resource means by said first and second microprocessor means and said DMA controller. 15. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 10 wherein said system resource means further includes said interfacing memory means, nonvolatile data memory means, and clock means for system time stamping. 16. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 15 wherein said system resource means further includes at least one additional dual channel communication controllers to provide at least two additional asynchronous communication channels. 17. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 8 wherein said first microprocessor servo means includes a position/velocity microprocessor servo means for executing said program means in the basic control configuration and for operating the position/velocity control loops and generating torque commands, and wherein said first microprocessor servo means further includes a torque processor servo means for operating the torque control loop and generating said voltage commands. 18. A digital robot control as set forth in claim 17 wherein said position/velocity microprocessor servo means includes a data management processor and a position/velocity control calculator microprocessor and a floating point calculator coordinated by said management microprocessor to perform the defined position/velocity servo means functions. 