A circuit breaker panelboard modular assembly employs a plurality of interdependent molded plastic and metal parts to multifunctionally adapt breakers of different ratings for electrical connection within the panelboard enclosure. Anti-turn connector connects the line strap terminal. Captive bolts or plug-in connections are employed to attach the breakers to the power bus. A novel concealed hinge construction is used to connect the panelboard door to the panelboard housing and the breakers are individually identified within the housing by extruded plastic circuit markers.
Claims Having described our invention, what we claim as new and desire to secure by Letters Patent is: 1. A circuit breaker panelboard assembly comprising: closure means housing at least one main circuit breaker and a plurality of branch circuit breakers; access means movably arranged on said closure means providing access to said main and said branch circuit breakers from outside of said closure; shield means intermediate said access means and said main and branch circuit breakers preventing contact with electrical terminals on said main and branch circuit breakers; a main circuit breaker module comprising a mounting pan, said mounting pan being flanked by a first pair of apertured side extensions, said main breaker having three main circuit breaker connection straps projecting from one end; a branch circuit breaker module including a pair of opposing apertured side rails, said branch circuit breakers being mounted on said branch circuit breaker module over a plurality of bus bars and flanked by said pair of apertured side rails, said bus bars having connector straps arranged at their ends for electrical connection with said main circuit breakers connection straps; and a neutral connection module comprising a neutral lug and a plurality of neutral connectors arranged on a base, the base being flanked by a second pair of apertured side extensions, said main circuit breaker module, branch circuit breaker module and neutral connection module being fastened together by attachment between said first and second apertured extensions and said apertured side rails. 2. The circuit breaker panelboard assembly of claim 1 wherein an end of said branch circuit breaker module is arranged in overlapping relation on an end of said neutral connection module and an opposite end of said branch circuit breaker module is arranged in overlapping relation on an end of said main circuit breaker module. 3. A circuit breaker panelboard assembly comprising: closure means housing at least one main circuit breaker and a plurality of branch circuit breakers; access means movably arranged on said closure means providing access to said main and said branch circuit breakers from outside of said closure; shield means intermediate said access means and said main and branch circuit breakers preventing contact with electrical terminals on said main and branch circuit breakers; a branch circuit breaker module including a pair of opposing apertured side rails, said branch circuit breakers being mounted on said branch circuit breaker module over a plurality of bus bars and flanked by said pair of apertured side rails, said bus bars arranged at their ends for electrical connection with wire terminal lugs; and a split neutral assembly module separated by and attached to an electrical conducting strap and arranged on a base pan which carries a plurality of neutral terminal connectors and a pair of neutral terminal bases, said base pan being flanked by a pair of apertured side extensions, said branch circuit breaker module and said split neutral assembly module being fastened together by attachment between said apertured side rails and said apertured extensions. 4. The circuit breaker panelboard assembly of claim 3 wherein said wire terminal lugs are connected to said busbar ends by means of an anti-turn connector. 5. The circuit breaker panelboard assembly of claim 4 wherein said anti-turn connector comprises: an apertured flat plate portion having a pair of oppositely adjacent vertical tabs formed at one end receiving each of said busbar ends and a recessed receptacle intermediate said tabs supporting a connecting bolt, said connecting bolt connecting with said wire terminal lugs through said busbar ends. 6. The circuit breaker panelboard assembly of claim 4 wherein said anti-turn connector is fastened to said busbar ends by means of at least one additional connecting bolt. 