Methods of calibrating robotic manipulators are disclosed. The present invention uses an inclinometer or a leveling device to provide a reference to calibrate each encoder for each joint of a robotic manipulator. The inclinometer or leveling device is most preferably an electronic protractor or similar device that is placed on a surface of one of the links and the joint is moved until the link is at a preselected angle. In certain embodiments an offset position between the level position and an index position for an absolute encoder is determined and absolute encoder data describing the offset position is recorded. Preferably, the inclinometer is capable of generating a signal that indicates the angle of the surface of the link with respect to the gravity vector. This signal can be used to control the joints and automatically calibrate the manipulator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of calibrating a robotic manipulator having a distal end to define an origin point of the distal end at an arbitrary point in space, the manipulator comprising at least a first link connected to a base by a rotatable joint, the displacement of the rotatable joint being measured by an encoder, the method comprising the steps of: placing an inclinometer for measuring the angle of a surface relative to the gravity vector on the link at a preselected location having a known angle with respect to the link centerline and an absolute joint position; determining a preselected angle with respect to the gravity vector by using the known angle; moving the rotatable joint until distal end is at the origin point, wherein the link is at the preselected angle with respect to the gravity vector; and recording encoder data to store the joint positions at the preselected angle, whereby the location of the origin point is defined. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the robotic manipulator is comprised of a plurality of links and rotatable joints, each having an encoder, wherein a second link is connected to the first link, the method further comprising the steps of: placing an inclinometer on the second link; determining a preselected angle with respect to the gravity vector; moving the joint associated with the second link until it is at the preselected angle; and recording encoder data to store the joint positions at the preselected angle, whereby these steps are repeated for each of the plurality of links and associated joints, and whereby the robotic manipulator is calibrated with respect to an offset position. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein a separate inclinometer is affixed to each of the plurality of links and the steps of moving the rotatable joints and recording encoder data are carried out automatically in a sequence beginning at a first joint attached to the first link, and proceeding for each of the joints to the distal end of the manipulator. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein each step of the calibration method is carried out a second time to verify the accuracy of the calibration. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein the inclinometer is a leveling device and the steps of moving the joints associated with the links comprises moving the joint until the link is level. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of moving the rotatable joint is carried out automatically. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the inclinometer is a leveling device and the step of moving a rotatable joint comprises moving the joint until the link is level. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one joint has an absolute encoder and the method further comprises the steps of: determining an offset position between the joint position at the preselected angle and an indexed position; and recording encoder data describing the offset position. 