A system for storing and retrieving items to and from a storage receptacle which includes a track riding dolly carrying a robotic item handler for inserting and extracting items to and from storage. The dolly also carries a multishelved caddy for receiving a plurality of items thereon. The item handler has the capacity to access each of the shelves of the caddy and may execute, under computer control, a selected sequence of item transfers between the caddy and storage during a single passage of the dolly from an on/off load point past the storage receptacle. A multishelved caddy loader queues a plurality of items received from an on-load device independently of the caddy, via vertical repositioning, and performs a bulk transfer of the queued items to the caddy when the caddy is available. A mass offloader device permits the bulk transfer of a plurality of items from the caddy to an offload receiver. A unit offloader sequentially offloads the offload receiver, via vertical repositioning of the offload receiver, onto an offload surface independently of the caddy.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for automatically transferring a plurality of items between a first location and a second location utilizing a system including caddy means for receiving said plurality of items, said caddy means including a plurality of substantially vertically oriented shelves, said caddy means being affixed to dolly means for carrying said caddy means between said first location and said second location, said dolly means including locomotion means and locomotion control means for moving said dolly means, item handler means affixed to said dolly means for transferring said plurality of items between said caddy means and said first location, said item handler means including first elevator means and first elevator control means for positioning said item handler means at a selected elevation, caddy loader means for simultaneously loading said plurality of items on said caddy means, said caddy loading means including a plurality of substantially vertically oriented shelves matching said orientation of said shelves of said caddy means, second elevator means and second elevator control means for adjusting the elevation of said caddy loader means, item pusher means for simultaneously pushing said items off from said caddy loader shelves to said caddy means shelves, and control means for managing and controlling said system, said method comprising the steps of: A. transferring said plurality of items from said first location to said caddy means; B. carrying said caddy means on said dolly means proximate to said second location; C. performing a selectable sequence of transfers of said items between said caddy means and said second location with said item handler means. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein said step of transferring said plurality of items includes the steps of: A. loading said caddy loader means with said plurality of items; and B. positioning said caddy means proximate said caddy loader means; C. executing a bulk transfer of said items from said caddy loader means to said caddy means. 3. A method in accordance with claim 2, wherein said item handler means includes a rotatable base member with item gripper means disposed on a top surface thereof and control means for controlling rotation of said base member and said item gripper means, and wherein said step of loading said caddy loader means includes A. suspending said caddy loader means at a selected height via said second elevator means and corresponding control means; B. depositing one of said items on a first caddy loader shelf; C. vertically repositioning said caddy loader means to a second selected height; D. depositing another one of said items on a second caddy loader shelf; E. repeating said steps of depositing and vertically repositioning until said caddy loader shelves are filled to a selected degree. 4. A method in accordance with claim 3, wherein said step of executing a bulk transfer includes the steps of: A. elevating said caddy loader means to a level at which said plurality of shelves of said caddy loader means and those of said caddy means are coplanar; and B. activating said item pusher means causing said items to be pushed from said caddy loader shelves to said caddy shelves. 5. A method in accordance with claim 4 wherein said step of performing a selectable sequence of transfers includes alternatively, variously and selectively; A. (i) inducing said elevator means to align said item handler means with one of said items on a selected one of said caddy shelves; (ii) rotating said rotatable base member to the degree required to align said item gripper means with said one of said items; (iii) grasping said one of said items from said one of said selected caddy shelves with said item gripper means; (iv) repositioning said item gripper means proximate a selected storage space in said second location via said elevator means and said rotatable base member; (v) releasing said one of said items from said item gripper means to allow said one of said items to come to rest on said selected storage space; B. (i) inducing said elevator means to align said item handler means with a second one of said items in said second location; (ii) rotating said rotatable base member to the degree required to align said item gripper means with said second one of said items; (iii) grasping said second one of said items from said second location with said item gripper means; (iv) repositioning said item gripper means proximate one of said caddy means shelves via said elevator means and said rotatable base member; (v) releasing said second one of said items from said item gripper means to allow said second of said items to come to rest on said one of said caddy means shelves; C. executing steps A (i) through (iii) and repositioning said item gripper means proximate a second one of said caddy means shelves and allowing another one of said items to come to rest on said second caddy means shelf. 6. A method according to claim 5, wherein said item gripper means is linearly extensible and retractable to permit said item gripper means to grasp said item beyond said rotatable base member when extended and draw said item onto said base member as said gripper means is retracted and wherein said steps of grasping further include the steps of A. linearly extending said item gripper means beyond said rotatable base member towards said one of said items; B. gripping said one of said items by said item gripper means; C. retracting said item gripper means; and D. drawing said one of said items onto said rotatable base member. 7. A method in accordance with claim 6, wherein said system includes onload means for sequentially loading items onto said caddy loader shelves and control means for controlling the loading of said items and caddy offload means for simultaneously offloading a plurality of said items from said caddy means onto a said caddy loader operating in offload mode, wherein said step of depositing is performed by said onload means, and after said step of performing a selectable sequence of transfers, further including the steps of A. carrying said caddy means on said dolly means proximate to said offload means and said caddy loader means in the offload mode and interposing said caddy between said offload means and said caddy loader means in the offload mode; and B. executing a bulk transfer of said plurality of items from said caddy means to said caddy loader means in offload mode by said offload means pushing said items from said caddy to said caddy loader in the offload mode. 8. A method in accordance with claim 7, wherein said offload means includes an offload controller for controlling said offload means and a plurality of parallel pusher arms extending from a common pusher frame member and having a vertical spacing therebetween matching that of said spacing between said caddy means shelves and wherein said step of executing a bulk transfer from said caddy means to said caddy loader means in offload mode includes: A. elevating said caddy loader means in offload mode to a level at which said plurality of shelves of said caddy loader means in offload mode and those of said caddy are coplanar; and B. activating said offload means causing said items to be pushed from said caddy means shelves to said caddy loader means in offload mode shelves. 9. A method in accordance with claim 8, wherein said system further includes caddy loader offload means for sequentially offloading items from said caddy loader means and further comprising the step of sequentially offloading said caddy loader means in the offload mode after said step of activating. 