A robotic hand consisting of one or more jointed fingers each formed from a number of link elements. A torque control is supplied for each element so that undue pressure is not exerted by any link element on an object being gripped. The invention provides an electromechanical simulation of a human hand, flexing to encompass objects rather than impinging against them.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic hand for gripping regularly shaped and irregularly shaped objects, comprising: (a) a base support; (b) a jointed finger, mounted on the base support and formed by a plurality of link elements; (c) a pivot joint between each link element; (d) a drive means for each link element for pivoting a link element about another link element in which each drive means is interconnected to form a sequential drive from an innermost link element adjacent the base to an outermost link element; and (e) a slip coupling between each link element and an associated drive means to prevent further pivoting of the link element and to transfer drive from an inner link element to a next outermost link element, said coupling operating when the pressure exerted by said inner link element on an object being gripped exceeds a pre-set pressure to cause the coupling to slip. 2. A robotic hand as recited in claim 1 in which each slip coupling comprises a friction coupling between a drive means and an associated link element. 3. A robotic hand as recited in claim 1 in which the slip coupling comprises a tension spring mounted between adjacent link elements. 4. A robotic hand as recited in claim 1 in which the slip coupling comprises a torsion spring incorporated in each pivot joint. 5. A robotic hand as recited in claim 1 in which the sequential drive includes a gear train with a drive gear connected through a friction clutch to each link element to form each drive means and at least one idler gear between adjacent drive gears. 6. A robotic hand as recited in claim 5 in which the friction clutch is a friction pad. 7. A robotic hand as recited in claim 5 in which there is no slip coupling between the drive means and the outermost link element relative to the base support, the stall force of the drive means determining the ultimate pressure that the jointed finger can exert. 8. A robotic hand as recited in claim 6 in which there is no slip coupling between the drive means and the outermost link element relative to the base support, the stall force of the drive means determining the ultimate pressure that the jointed finger can exert. 9. A robotic hand as recited in claim 1 in which each drive means comprises a fluid pressure actuator mounted between two link elements, each fluid pressure actuator feeding a next outermost fluid actuator through a pressure release valve. 10. A robotic hand as recited in claim 9 in which each fluid pressure actuator comprises: a fluid pressure power source; a plurality of ram assemblies each connected between adjacent link elements; a fluid pressure link connecting each ram assembly to the power source; and a pressure release valve in the fluid pressure line between each ram assembly to form the slip coupling. 11. A robotic hand as recited in claim 9 in which each link element forms portion of the fluid pressure actuator and comprises: a male end portion; a female end portion for reception of the male end portion of another link element; a pivot joint for securing a male end portion within a female end portion; a chamber formed within the female end portion by an arcuate, in plan, recess; a fluid tight piston connected to the male end portion and mounted within the chamber; and in which the remainder of the fluid pressure actuator being provided by a fluid pressure power source and line connected to each chamber, and a pressure relief valve. 12. A robotic hand as recited in claim 1 in which the drive means is a helical bi-metallic strip connecting adjacent link elements, associated switch elements and a power source. 13. A robotic hand as recited in claim 5 in which stop means is associated with each link element to control the relative pivotal movement between adjacent link elements. 14. A robotic hand as recited in claim 7 in which stop means is associated with each link element to control the relative pivotal movement between adjacent link elements. 15. A robotic hand as recited in claim 1 in which a sensor is provided on a link element to sense the pressure exerted by the link element on an object, the sensor forming part of the slip coupling. 16. A robotic hand as recited in claim 15 in which additional sensors are provided to measure other physical phenomena of an object in contact with the link element. 17. A robotic hand as recited in claim 1 in which the pivot joint allows pivotal movement of the link element in at least two separate planes. 18. A robotic hand as recited in claim 1 inclusive including a plurality of jointed fingers. 19. A robotic hand as recited in claim 18 in which at least one of the fingers pivots in a different plane to that of the other fingers. 20. A robotic hand as recited in claim 18 in which the robotic hand is mounted within a sealed glove containing a fluid. 21. A robotic hand as recited in claim 19 in which the robotic hand is mounted within a sealed glove containing a fluid. 