A Six-Degree-of-Freedom Parallel-Manipulator having three inextensible limbs for manipulating a platform is described in which the three inextensible limbs are attached via universal joints to the platform at non-collinear points. Each of the inextensible limbs is also attached via universal joints to a two-degree-of-freedom parallel driver such as a five-bar lineage, a pantograph, or a bidirectional linear stepper motor. The drivers move the lower ends of the limbs parallel to a fixed base and thereby provide manipulation of the platform. The actuators are mounted on the fixed base without using any power transmission devices such as gears or belts.
Claims I claim: 1. A six-degree-of-freedom parallel manipulator comprising: three inextensible limbs each having a first end and a second end; each of said inextensible limbs moveably attached at said first end to a platform at non-collinear points on said platform; and planar driver means affixed to a base member and moveably attached to each said second end of said inextensible limbs for providing planar movement to each said second end of each said inextensible limb thereby providing manipulation of said platform. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein each of said inextensible limbs are moveably attached at each end with joints such that each limb is provided with six degrees of freedom. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein each said limb has a three-degree-of-freedom spherical joint at said second end and a revolute joint at said first end. 4. The device of claim 2 wherein each said limb has a two-degree-of-freedom universal joint at each end. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein one of the axes of the universal joint at said first end is collinear with its limb, and the other axes of the universal joint at said first end as well as one axes of the universal joint at said second end are perpendicular to its limb. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein said planar driver means for providing planar movement comprises three two-degree-of-freedom drivers. 7. The device of claim 6 wherein said three two-degree-of-freedom drivers each comprise a pantograph mounted to said base member. 8. The device of claim 6 wherein said three two-degree-of-freedom drivers each comprise a five bar linkage mounted to said base member. 9. The device of claim 7 wherein each said pantograph is arranged as a speed reduction pantograph. 10. The device of claim 6 wherein said three two-degree-of-freedom drivers each comprise a bidirectional linear stepper motor mounted to said base member. 11. The device of claim 6 wherein said three two-degree-of-freedom drivers each comprise X-Y position tables mounted to said base member. 