A method and an apparatus for separating elongated semiconductor strips from a wafer of semiconductor material are disclosed. Vacuum is applied to the face of each elongated semiconductor strip forming an edge of the wafer or being adjacent to the edge. The wafer and a source of the vacuum are displaced to separate each elongated semiconductor strip from the wafer. Further, a method and an apparatus for assembling elongated semiconductor strips separated from a wafer of semiconductor material into an array of the strips are disclosed. Still further, methods, apparatuses, and systems for assembling an array of elongated semiconductor strips on a substrate are disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of assembling a plurality of elongated semiconductor strips separated from a wafer of semiconductor material into an array of said strips, said method comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of elongated semiconductor strips formed in a wafer in a substantially parallel manner with respect to each other, said wafer having a substantially planar surface and a thickness dimension at a right angle to the substantially planar surface and a frame portion at opposite ends of said semiconductor strips connecting said strips to said wafer; receiving at a predetermined position of at least one belt one of said elongated semiconductor strips oriented lengthwise across said belt; moving said belt in a given direction by a predetermined distance greater than the width of said elongated semiconductor strip; and repeating said receiving and moving steps until all of said elongated semiconductor strips have been processed. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein a vacuum source applies a vacuum to said elongated semiconductor strip and is used to deliver said elongated semiconductor strip at said predetermined position, and said predetermined distance is relative to said vacuum source. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said belt is made of a tape-like fabric and has adhesive on a surface upon which said elongated semiconductor strip is received. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said belt is castellated and has a distance between adjacent castellations substantially wider than the width of said elongated semiconductor strip, said predetermined position located between castellations on said belt and each elongated semiconductor strip is located between two adjacent castellations on said belt. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein said at least one belt comprises two parallel belts. 6. The method according to claim 3, wherein said belt is made of mylar. 7. A method of assembling an array of elongated semiconductor strips on a substrate, said method comprising the steps of: applying adhesive material on said substrate in a predetermined manner; applying vacuum to each one of said elongated semiconductor strips to maintain said strips in said array, said array being a predefined arrangement of said strips; transferring said array of elongated semiconductor strips to said substrate and bringing a face of each elongated semiconductor strip into contact with a portion of said adhesive material; and ceasing said vacuum applied to each elongated semiconductor strip to provide said array of elongated semiconductor strips located in situ on said substrate and adhering to said substrate. 8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising the step of applying electrically conductive material to said substrate to electrically connect two or more of said elongated semiconductor strips in said array adhering to said substrate. 9. The method according to claim 7, wherein said elongated semiconductor strips are formed in a wafer in a substantially parallel manner with respect to each other, said wafer having a substantially planar surface and a thickness dimension at a right angle to the substantially planar surface and a frame portion at opposite ends of said semiconductor strips connecting said strips to said wafer; and said method comprising the steps of: separating each elongated semiconductor strip from said wafer using vacuum applied to said elongated semiconductor strip forming an edge or being adjacent to an edge of said wafer; displacing said wafer from a source of said vacuum applied to said elongated semiconductor strip in said separating step by a predetermined distance; receiving on at least one first belt said elongated semiconductor strip oriented lengthwise across said belt; moving said belt in a given direction by a predetermined distance greater than the width of said elongated semiconductor strip; repeating the foregoing steps until all of said elongated semiconductor strips have been processed. 10. The method according to claim 8, wherein said applying step comprises printing pads of said electrically conductive material on said substrate. 11. The method according to claim 8, wherein elongated strips of said adhesive material is are applied on said substrate. 12. The method according to claim 9, wherein said at least one first belt is made of a tape-like fabric and has adhesive on a surface upon which said elongated semiconductor strip is received. 13. The method according to claim 9, further comprising the step of displacing said separated, elongated semiconductor strip and said source of said vacuum relative to each other. 14. The method according to claim 9, wherein said substrate also has electrically conductive material applied to said substrate to electrically connect two or more of said elongated semiconductor strips in said array adhering to said substrate. 15. The method according to claim 9, wherein said wafer is single crystal silicon or multicrystalline silicon. 16. The method according to claim 9, wherein said at least one first belt comprises two parallel belts. 