A liquid cooled welding gun assembly is adapted to be operatively connected to a power, gas, and weld wire feed mechanism through a cable assembly and a connector assembly. The welding gun assembly includes a front connector block and the connector assembly includes a rear connector block. Power, gas and cooling liquid hoses are contained within the cable assembly and intercommunicate the connector block of the welding gun assembly with the rear connector block. The welding gun assembly includes a liquid cooled nozzle assembly. In an alternative embodiment, a nozzle of the nozzle assembly has an internal cooling passage therein. The nozzle assembly includes alternative diffusers having longitudinally directed gas flow passages therein. A hose coupling assembly is provided for facilitating connecting and disconnecting the various power, gas and liquid hoses from the conductor blocks. In an alternate embodiment, the connector block is replaced by a robotic body and a robotic conductor tube assembly is attached thereto for robotic welding.
Claims We claim: 1. In a welding gun having a conductor tube assembly having inlet and outlet ends, means defining a longitudinal bore through said conductor tube assembly for passage of gas, a gas diffuser mounted adjacent said outlet, said gas diffuser comprising a generally elongated member having an enlarged head portion and a narrow body portion having an inlet end opposite said head portion, said body portion defining a radially outermost cylindrical surface having threads thereon adapted for mounting said diffuser adjacent said outlet, a longitudinal axial bore through said diffuser from said inlet end to an outlet end at the distal end of said head portion, wherein the improvement comprises a plurality of longitudinally directed slots on said radially outermost cylindrical surface extending from said inlet end into said head portion while stopping short of said outlet end whereby gas may be directed from said inlet end longitudinally along said cylindrical surface and thence radially from said head portion. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein said slots include a curved end portion in said head portion for directing gas flowing in said slots radially of said head. 3. The invention of claim 2 further including a plurality of flats on the exterior of said head portion. 4. The invention of claim 1 wherein the number of longitudinally directed slots is two. 5. The invention of claim 1 wherein the number of longitudinally directed slots is four. 6. The invention of claim 1 wherein the number of longitudinally directed slots is six. 7. A liquid cooled hand held welding gun apparatus for supplying welding wire, electrical power and shielding gas to a working area comprising: (a) a connector assembly adapted to be connected to a welding wire feed mechanism, gas supply, liquid supply and a power and control circuit; (b) a handle assembly including a trigger mechanism for manual actuation of said welding gun apparatus, and a connector block in said handle assembly; (c) a cable assembly interconnecting said connector assembly with said handle assembly for conveying welding wire, shielding gas, electrical power and cooling liquid thereto, said cable assembly including a gas and feed wire conduit, cooling liquid inlet and outlet conduits and power and control conductors; (d) a curved elongated conductor tube assembly having first and second ends, said first end removably mounted in said connector block of said handle assembly, said curved conductor tube assembly being radially adjustable 360.degree. about said handle assembly; (e) a liquid cooled nozzle assembly removably mounted on said second end of said curved elongated conductor tube assembly, said liquid cooled nozzle assembly including a removable shielding gas diffuser; and (f) Said conductor tube assembly conveying said liquid from said connector block to said nozzle assembly for cooling and from said nozzle assembly back to said connector block and also conveying said shielding gas from said connector block to said shielding gas diffuser for shielding; (g) Said connector block forming a bore sized to engage said first end of said conductor tube; and (h) Means for sealing between said bore of said connector block and said first end of said conductor tube assembly to prevent leakage of said liquid and to prevent commingling of said shielding gas with said liquid. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said liquid cooled nozzle assembly further includes: (a) a removable insulator forming an internal bore sized and configured to slip over the second end of said curved elongated conductor tube assembly; (b) a removable water manifold forming a second internal bore sized and configured to slip over the second end of said curved elongated conductor tube assembly and to abut said insulator; (c) a nozzle housing removably mounted on said insulator, said nozzle housing forming a third internal bore sized and configured to receive said water manifold; said third internal bore and said water manifold defining a liquid passageway for said cooling liquid; (d) seal means to prevent the escape of cooling liquid from said passageway; (e) a contact tip removably engaging said shielding gas diffuser, said diffuser removably engaging said nozzle having; and (f) a nozzle removably engaging said nozzle housing, said nozzle forming a fourth internal bore having said contact tip positioned therein; said fourth internal bore and said contact tip defining a gas passageway for directing said shielding gas to said working area. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said curved elongated conductor tube assembly further includes: (a) an elongated inner conductor tube, to direct said welding wire and said shielding gas; (b) an elongated outer conductor tube sized and configured to enclose said inner conductor tube and to form an annulus in between the exterior wall of said inner conductor tube and the internal wall of said outer conductor tube; (c) a plurality of ribs running the length of said annulus to form an inlet conduit for said cooling liquid and an outlet conduit for said cooling liquid; (d) an outlet port in said outer conductor tube to allow said cooling liquid to exit said inlet conduit; (e) an inlet port in said outer conductor tube to allow said cooling liquid to enter said outlet conduit; and (f) mounting means for removably attaching said first end of said conductor tube assembly to said connector block. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 and further including a rear connector block positioned in said connector assembly. 11. A liquid cooled welding apparatus for use with a robotic positioning apparatus, said liquid cooled welding apparatus for supplying welding wire, electrical power and shielding gas to a working area comprising: (a) a connector block assembly to be connected to a welding wire feed mechanism, gas supply, liquid supply and a power circuit; (b) a removable conductor tube assembly having first and second ends, said first end forming an elongated alignment pin having a keyway therein for proper radial alignment; (c) said connector block forming an elongated receptacle sized and configured to receive said elongated nose of said conductor tube assembly; (d) aligning means in said receptacle of said robotic connector block to interact with said keyway of said nose to achieve proper radial alignment; (e) a removable nozzle assembly mounted on said second end of said conductor tube assembly; (f) mounting means for removably attaching said first end of said conductor tube assembly to said connector block; and (g) a nozzle assembly removably mounted on said second end of said conductor tube assembly. 12. A liquid cooled welding gun apparatus for supplying welding wire, electrical power and shielding gas to a working area comprising: (a) a connector assembly adapted to be connected to a welding wire feed mechanism, gas supply, liquid supply and a power and control circuit; (b) a welding gun assembly including a nozzle assembly for directing shielding gas to a working area; (c) a cable assembly interconnecting said connector assembly with said welding gun apparatus for conveying welding wire, shielding gas, electrical power and cooling liquid thereto, said cable assembly including a gas and feed wire conduit, cooling liquid inlet and outlet conduits and power and control cables; (d) said connector assembly includes a rear connector block means for removably attaching said gas and liquid cooling conduits; (e) said welding gun assembly including a conductor and supply tube assembly; (f) a connector block means for removably attaching said gas and liquid cooling conduits; (g) attachment means for removably securing said conductor and supply tube assembly to said connector block means; and (h) said conductor and supply tube assembly having inlet and outlet ends, means defining a longitudinal bore through said conductor tube assembly for passage of gas, a gas diffuser mounted adjacent said outlet, said gas diffuser comprising a generally elongated member having an enlarged head portion and a narrow body portion having an inlet end opposite said head portion, said body portion defining a radially outermost cylindrical surface having threads thereon adapted for mounting said diffuser adjacent said outlet, a longitudinal axial bore through said diffuser from said inlet end to an outlet end at the distal end of said head portion, plurality of longitudinally directed slots on said radially outermost cylindrical surface extending from said inlet end into said head portion while stopping short of said outlet end whereby gas may be directed from said inlet end longitudinally along said cylindrical surface and thence radially from said head portion. 13. The invention of claim 12 wherein said slots include a curved end portion in said head portion for directing gas flowing in said slots radially of said head. 14. The invention of claim 13 further including a plurality of flats on the exterior of said head portion. 15. The invention of claim 12 wherein the number of longitudinally directed slots is two. 16. The invention of claim 12 wherein the number of longitudinally directed slots is four. 17. The invention of claim 12 wherein the number of longitudinally directed slots is six. 18. The invention of claim 17 wherein said body portion comprises a generally tubular inner portion and a generally tubular outer portion, and wherein said chamber is located between said inner and outer portions. 19. A liquid cooled welding gun apparatus for supplying welding wire, electrical power and shielding gas to a working area comprising: (a) a connector assembly adapted to be connected to a welding wire feed mechanism, gas supply, liquid supply and a power and control circuit; (b) a welding gun assembly including a nozzle assembly for directing shielding gas to a working area; (c) a cable assembly interconnecting said connector assembly with said welding gun apparatus for conveying welding wire, shielding gas, electrical power and cooling liquid thereto, said cable assembly including a gas and feed wire conduit, cooling liquid inlet and outlet conduits and power and control cables; (d) said connector assembly includes a rear connector block means for removably attaching said gas and liquid cooling conduits; (e) said welding gun assembly including a conductor and supply tube assembly; (f) a connector block means for removably attaching said gas and liquid cooling conduits; (g) attachment means for removably securing said conductor and supply tube assembly to said connector block means; (h) said nozzle assembly including a liquid cooled nozzle having an elongated, generally cylindrical body defining a central axis and inlet and outlet ends, means defining a central bore through said nozzle from said inlet end to said outlet end, mounting means on said inlet end for selectively securing said nozzle on a support tube, an annular cooling chamber within said body located so as to substantially surround said central bore, passage means intercommunicating said cooling chamber with said central bore intermediate said inlet end and said outlet end so that cooling liquid may be transferred into and out of said cooling chamber thereby cooling said nozzle, wherein said passage means comprising a plurality of spaced holes on the interior of said bore. 20. The invention of claim 19 wherein said holes are equally spaced around said groove. 21. A liquid cooled welding gun apparatus for supplying welding wire, electrical power and shielding gas to a working area comprising: (a) a connector assembly adapted to be connected to a welding wire feed mechanism, gas supply, liquid supply and a power and control circuit; (b) a welding gun assembly including a nozzle assembly for directing shielding gas to a working area; (c) a cable assembly interconnecting said connector assembly with said welding gun apparatus for conveying welding wire, shielding gas, electrical power and cooling liquid thereto, said cable assembly including a gas and feed wire conduit, cooling liquid inlet and outlet conduits and power and control cables; (d) said connector assembly includes a rear connector block means for removably attaching said gas and liquid cooling conduits; (e) said welding gun assembly including a conductor and supply tube assembly; (f) a connector block means for removably attaching said gas and liquid cooling conduits; (g) attachment means for removably securing said conductor and supply tube assembly to said connector block means; (h) said nozzle assembly including a liquid cooled nozzle having an elongated, generally cylindrical body defining a central axis and inlet and outlet ends, means defining a central bore through said nozzle from said inlet end to said outlet end, mounting means on said inlet end for selectively securing said nozzle on a support tube, an annular cooling chamber within said body located so as to substantially surround said central bore, passage means intercommunicating said cooling chamber with said central bore intermediate said inlet end and said outlet end so that cooling liquid may be transferred into and out of said cooling chamber thereby cooling said nozzle, wherein said passage means further comprises a shallow, circumferential groove in said central bore, and wherein said holes are located in said groove. 