Tool-holder B f6r gripping and changing tools for an industrial robot suitable for fixing to a rotary wrist-joint (5) of a robot arm, intended to carry one tool at a time. This tool-holder B comprises an upstream part C able to be fixed to the wrist-joint (5), a downstream part D able to be fixed to a tool (E1, . . . ) and remaining integral with the latter at each tool change, the two parts C and D being equipped with additional means for assembly and for rapid locking as well as unlocking and with detachable connectors (28, 32; 29, 37) for supplying the tool (E1) with fluid and electricity, the upstream part C containing a jack (7, 22) capable of displacing the locking and unlocking components (25, 41, 42, 14, 15, 16), and the downstream part D can be arranged in a tool magazine with the associated tool. The one-piece nature of the tool gripped in the tool-holder B ensures ease and speed of the robot's arm movements in space, maximum robot reliability, as well as rapid and powerful locking and unlocking.
Claims I claim: 1. A tool holder (B) for gripping and changing tools used by an industrial robot (A), said tool holder including an upstream part (C) for connection to a rotary wrist-joint (5) of a robot arm (1) and at least one downstream part (D) to be fixed to and remain integral with a tool (E1, E2 . . . ) at each tool change; said upstream part and each downstream part including cooperating means for the rapid assembly and locking together of said upstream part and a downstream part and for the rapid unlocking and disassembly of a previously assembled and locked together upstream and downstream parts, said cooperating means comprising; in the upstream part, locking and unlocking means comprised of a double acting jack unit which includes a cylinder portion (7, 71), a piston means (21, 22, 22a, 60, 72, 73) for reciprocating along an axis X--X in said cylinder portion between a locking position and an unlocking position and spring means for biasing said piston means into its locking position, said cylinder portion having an interior lining (10, 10a), said lining defining successively from its top to its bottom a generally cylindrical locking bore (14), a first flared slope section in the shape of a truncated cone (15), a generally cylindrical unlocking bore (16) having a diameter greater than that of said locking bore, and a second flared slope section in the shape of a female cone (70), said piston means comprising a head portion (22a, 72), a flange portion extending from said head portion and over a portion of said cylinder portion (7, 71), and a sleeve portion (21, 73) having a central bore with an open lower end and a top end closed by said head portion, said sleeve portion extending below said head portion and coaxial with said cylinder portion (7, 71), said sleeve portion including at least one orifice (24) and at least one ball (25) radially movable in said orifice, said ball having a diameter such that when the orifice of said sleeve portion is in registration with said lining locking bore (14) the ball extends into the central bore of the sleeve to define a locking position and when said sleeve portion is in registration with said lining unlocking bore (16) the ball may be radially withdrawn from said central bore into an unlocking position, and in the downstream part, a support means (30) fixedly attached to a tool for supporting a tool on said downstream part, a male cone portion (40) extending from said supporting means and cooperating with said femal cone (70) for quickly aligning said downstream part with said upstream part during assembly of said two parts, a stem (41) extending from said male cone, said stem having a double cone locking head (42) at its end opposite its end connected to said male cone, said stem being receivable into said central bore of said sleeve portion (21, 73) when said piston means is in its unlocking position; and means for forcing said piston means to its unlocking position against the bias of said spring means, said flange portion of said piston means striking said portion of said cylinder portion over which it lies when moved to its unlocking position, whereby said downstream part can be forced out of engagement with the upstream part by the hammer action realized as the flange portion of the piston means strikes the portion of the cylinder portion over which it lies. 2. Tool-holder as claimed in claim 1, wherein the stem head (42) of the downstream part (D) is composed of a double coned bulb coaxial with the sleeve (21) and with the cylinder (7), this bulb being comprised of two cone frusta (44, 45) arranged on either side of a central cylindrical strip (43) whose diameter is equal to that of the central bore (23) of the sleeve (21), the lower frustum (45) being capable of bearing on the ball (25) in the locking position of the upstream (C) and downstream (D) parts. 3. Tool-holder as claimed in claim 1, wherein the upstream (C) and downstream (D) parts are provided with additional connections (28-32, 29-37) connected to corresponding conduits (2-33, 3-39) to ensure supply to the tool on the one hand of a compressed fluid and on the other of electricity, connections for inlet and outlet (49a, 49b) of the cooling water, as well as for suction (50) also being provided on the upstream part (C), which for this purpose carries a connecting flange (27) integral with the cylinder portion (7). 4. Tool-holder as claimed in claim 3, wherein each supply connection for liquid or gaseous fluid under pressure or for a cooling fluid is made in a sealed manner by means of a projecting end connector (28) fixed to the flange (27) of the upstream part (C) and which can be fitted in sealed contact into a sealing washer (35) provided inside a connection boss (32) formed on the flange (30) of the downstream part (D). 5. Tool holder as claimed in claim 4, wherein the projecting end connector (28) is in the shape of a truncated cone and the paired sealing washer (35) has a profile also in the shape of a truncated cone and is fixed at its periphery between the boss (32) and a cover (36) fixed onto the boss (32). 6. Tool-holder as claimed in claim 3, wherein the electrical connection is made by means of a plug (29) with pins, the plug (29) being fixed on the flange (27) of the upstream part (C) and by means of a boss (37) integral with the flange (30) of the downstream part (D), the boss (37) comprising holes (38) complementary with the pins of the plug (29). 7. Tool-holder as claimed in claim 1, further including means for preventing rotation of the downstream part (D) which carries the tool (E1, E2, . . . ) relative to the upstream part (C), said rotation preventing means comprising a lug (55) projecting from the supporting means (30) of the downstream part (D) and a corresponding blind hole (18) arranged in the bottom of the cylinder portion of the upstream part (C). 8. Tool-holder as claimed in claim 1, wherein the upstream part (C) further includes, as driving component to displace the piston means from the cylinder portion, a flexible diaphragm (52), the diaphragm being fixed at its periphery to the body (51) of the cylinder portion (71) and at another portion thereof to said piston means, the diaphragm (52) being intended to displace the sleeve portion (73) under the action of a fluid under pressure supplied through one of the faces of the sleeve portion carrying conduits (19a, 20a) for fluid inlet and exhaust. 9. Tool-holder as claimed in claim 3, wherein the downstream part (D) comprises a flange which is suitable for sliding in a support plate (46) of a tool magazine (F) by means of twin-bevelled V-shaped edges (31) capable of sliding in the corresponding guide slots (47) of the plates (46). 10. Tool-holder as claimed in claim 8, wherein the top (22a) of the sleeve portion (21, 73) cooperates by percussion, like a hammer, with the locking head (42) under the action of a fluid under pressure brought to the upper end of the cylinder portion (7-51) of the jack. 11. The tool holder as claimed in claim 1, wherein said cylinder portion comprises a first generally cylindrical section with an outwardly extending flange (27) and a second generally cylindrical section interior to and partially spaced from said first generally cylindrical section, said spring means being located in said space (11) between said first and second cylindrical sections, said flange portion of said piston means overlying at least a portion of the upper surface of said second generally cylindrical section. 12. The tool holder as claimed in claim 11, wherein said second generally cylindrical section includes an outwardly extending flange (12) a portion of which extends over at least a portion of the lower surface of said first generally cylindrical section, and further including fastening means for fastening said second generally cylindrical section to said first generally cylindrical section in the area where said outwardly extending flange (12) of said second generally cylindrical section extends over the lower portion of the first generally cylindrical section. 13. The tool holder as claimed in claim 11, wherein said first and second generally cylindrical sections of the cylinder portion are integral. 14. The tool holder as claimed in claim 1, wherein said means for forcing said piston means is a pneumatic means, said cylinder portion including an inlet (19) and an outlet (20) for receiving and exhausting, respectively, the fluid supplied by said pneumatic means. 