Methods for normalizing output from an instrument employing a reference standard or non-fluorescing substance disposed within at least one of a plurality of reaction chambers. The method comprises collecting and analyzing a signal associated with the reference standard or non-fluorescing substance to determine a normalizing bias. The normalizing bias is then applied to the data signal collected from a remainder of the plurality of reaction chambers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of normalizing spectral sensitivity from an instrument, the instrument using a microplate having a plurality of reaction chambers, the instrument having a plurality of filters, the method comprising: testing a first reference standard deposited in a first reaction chamber of the plurality of reaction chambers in the microplate, wherein the first reference standard is operable for outputting a first reference standard signal in response to the testing; testing a sample aliquot deposited in a second reaction chamber of the plurality of reaction chambers, wherein the sample aliquot includes at least a portion of a polynucleotide sample, at least one dye is deposited in the second reaction chamber, and the at least one dye is operable for outputting a data signal representative of the polynucleotide sample in response to the testing; detecting the first reference standard signal and the data signal; generating a normalization bias based on analyzing the first reference standard signal relative to a predetermined level; and normalizing the data signal relative to the normalization bias. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: depositing a second reference standard into a third reaction chamber of the plurality of reaction chambers in the microplate, wherein the second reference standard is operable for outputting a second reference standard signal. 3. The method according to claim 2, further comprising: detecting the second reference standard signal, wherein the second reference standard signal is analyzed with the first reference standard signal relative to a predetermined level to generate the normalization bias. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the at least one dye comprises a series dilution. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein the at least one dye comprises multiple titration points. 6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the at least one dye comprises dye ladders. 7. The method according to claim 1 further comprising performing reverse transcription on the sample aliquot. 8. A method of normalizing data output from an instrument, the instrument using a microplate having a plurality of reaction chambers, wherein a first reaction chamber of the plurality of reaction chambers is free from a fluorescing substance, the method comprising: depositing a sample aliquot and at least one dye into a second of the plurality of reaction chambers, the sample aliquot having at least a portion of the polynucleotide sample, wherein the dye is operable for outputting a data signal in response to the polynucleotide sample; determining a level of background correction based on a signal from the first reaction chamber of the plurality of reaction chambers; generating a normalization bias based on the determined level of background correction; and normalizing the data signal relative to the normalization bias. 9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: depositing a non-template control in the first reaction chamber of the plurality of reaction chambers. 10. The method according to claim 8 wherein the at least one dye comprises a series dilution. 11. The method according to claim 8 wherein the at least one dye comprises multiple titration points. 12. The method according to claim 8 wherein the at least one dye comprises dye ladders. 13. A method of normalizing data output from an instrument, the instrument using a microplate having a plurality of reaction chambers, the method comprising: detecting a first control signal output from a first control in a first reaction chamber of the plurality of reaction chambers, wherein the first reaction chamber is free of a polynucleotide sample; detecting a data signal output from at least one dye, wherein a sample aliquot and the at least one dye are in a second reaction chamber of the plurality of reaction chambers, the sample aliquot including at least a portion of the polynucleotide sample, and the at least one dye is operable for outputting the data signal in response to the polynucleotide sample; generating a normalization bias based on analyzing the first control signal relative to a predetermined level; and normalizing the data signal relative to the normalization bias. 14. The method according to claim 13,wherein the first control is a non-template control. 15. The method according to claim 13 wherein the at least one dye comprises a series dilution. 16. The method according to claim 13 wherein the at least one dye comprises multiple titration points. 17. The method according to claim 13 wherein the at least one dye comprises dye ladders. 