In a telemanipulation system for manipulating objects located in a workspace at a remote worksite by an operator from an operator's station, such as in a remote surgical system, the remote worksite having a manipulator with an end effector for manipulating an object at the workspace, such as a body cavity, a controller including a hand control at the control operator's station for remote control of the manipulator, an image capture device, such as a camera, and image output device for reproducing a viewable real-time image, the improvement wherein a position sensor associated with the image capture device senses position relative to the end effector and a processor transforms the viewable real-time image into a perspective image with correlated manipulation of the end effector by the hand controller such that the operator can manipulate the end effector and the manipulator as if viewing the workspace in true presence. Image transformation according to the invention includes translation, rotation and perspective correction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating a telerobotic system, the system comprising at least one slave manipulator and at least one master manipulator, the slave manipulator having a distal portion and a proximal portion, the system further comprising a display and an endoscope for capturing an image of the slave manipulator, the method comprising: moving the slave manipulator in response to movement of the master manipulator; displaying the image of the slave manipulator on the display to an operator controlling the master manipulator; and transforming the image on the display such that a first vector aligns with a second vector, the first vector defined as originating from the master manipulator pointing toward the distal portion of the slave manipulator in the image, the second vector defined as originating from the proximal portion of the slave manipulator in the image pointing toward the distal portion of the slave manipulator in the image. 2. The method of claim 1, the transforming the image comprising rotating the image. 3. The method of claim 1, the system further comprising a second endoscope for capturing a stereo image of the at least one slave manipulator, the transforming the image on the display comprising transforming a stereo image of the display. 4. The method of claim 1, the distal portion of the slave manipulator coupled to a surgical end effector, the method further comprising: positioning the surgical end effector within an internal surgical site of a patient; and positioning the endoscope within the internal surgical site. 5. The method of claim 1, the system further comprising a second slave manipulator and a second master manipulator, the second slave manipulator having a distal portion and a proximal portion, the method further comprising: moving the second slave manipulator in response to movement of the second master manipulator; displaying the image of the second slave manipulator on the display to the operator. 6. The method of claim 1, the transforming comprising effecting dynamic synchronization of the position of the distal portion of the slave manipulator in the image with the position of the master manipulator. 7. The method of claim 1, the transforming comprising bringing the position of the slave manipulator in the image in registration with the position of the master manipulator. 8. The method of claim 1, the transforming comprising rotating the endoscope about its visual axis. 9. A telerobotic system comprising: at least one slave manipulator, the slave manipulator having a distal portion and a proximal portion; at least one master manipulator, the slave manipulator moved in response to movement of the master manipulator; an endoscope for capturing an image of the slave manipulator; a display for displaying the image of the slave manipulator to an operator controlling the master manipulator; and means for transforming the image on the display such that a first vector aligns with a second vector, the first vector defined as originating from the master manipulator pointing toward the distal portion of the slave manipulator in the image, the second vector defined as originating from the proximal portion of the slave manipulator in the image pointing toward the distal portion of the slave manipulator in the image. 10. The system of claim 9, the means for transforming the image comprising means for rotating the image. 11. The system of claim 9, further comprising a second endoscope for capturing a stereo image of the at least one slave manipulator, the means for transforming the image on the display comprising means for transforming a stereo image of the display. 12. The system of claim 9, the distal portion of the slave manipulator coupled to a surgical end effector, the system further comprising: means for positioning the surgical end effector within an internal surgical site of a patient; and means for positioning the endoscope within the internal surgical site. 13. The system of claim 9, further comprising a second slave manipulator and a second master manipulator, the second slave manipulator having a distal portion and a proximal portion, the system further comprising: means for moving the second slave manipulator in response to movement of the second master manipulator; the display further displaying the image of the second slave manipulator to the operator. 14. The system of claim 9, the means for transforming comprising means for effecting dynamic synchronization of the position of the distal portion of the slave manipulator in the image with the position of the master manipulator. 15. The system of claim 9, the means for transforming comprising means for bringing the position of the slave manipulator in the image in registration with the position of the master manipulator. 16. The system of claim 9, the means for transforming comprising means for rotating the endoscope about its visual axis. 