An apparatus for detecting an increase in heat is provided which utilizes a light path such as a fiber optic cable which is coupled between a light source and a light detector. The fiber optic cable has predetermined light transmission characteristics which are changeable in response to an increase in heat in the vicinity of the cable. As a result, the amount or frequency of light detected by the light detector will change in response to the increase in heat. The apparatus is also described in connection with an electrostatic paint spray system.
Claims Having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. An electrostatic spray paint system comprising: a spray paint nozzle; at least one paint line coupled to the spray paint nozzle and extending therefrom to carry paint to the spray paint nozzle, a light source spaced away from said spray paint nozzle for emitting an amount of light; a light detector spaced away from said spray paint nozzle for detecting light; a fiber optic cable having predetermined light transmission characteristics being changeable in response to a dangerous increased heat condition, such as fire, spontaneous combustion and the like, in the vicinity of said fiber optic cable, said fiber optic cable including a portion spaced adjacent said spray paint nozzle, and a further portion spaced adjacent said at least one paint line, said fiber optic cable further being connected between said light source and said light detector wherein the amount of light detected by said light detector from said light source is dependent on said light transmission characteristics, whereby said amount of ight detected will change in response to said dangerous increased heat condition; suppressing means responsive to said light detector for suppressing said dangerous increased heat condition. 2. In the system of claim 1, said spray paint nozzle being moveable, said adjacent portion of fiber optic cable being moveable therewith. 3. In the system of claim 2, said fiber optic cable being surrounded by a material, said material adapted to expose portions of said fiber optic cable in response to said increase in heat. 4. In the system of claim 2, said fiber optic cable deforming in response to said increase in heat. 5. In the system of claim 4, said fiber optic cable adapted to break apart in response to said increase in heat. 6. In the system of claim 2, said spray paint nozzle further being moveably secured to the free end of a moveable structure such as a robot arm or the like. 7. In the system of claim 6, said fiber optic cable being surrounded by a material, said material adapted to expose portions of said fiber optic cable in response to said increase in heat. 8. In the system of claim 6, said fiber optic cable deforming in response to said increase in heat. 9. In the system of claim 8, said fiber optic cable adapted to break apart in response to said increase in heat. 10. In the system of claim 6, wherein a further portion of said fiber optic cable is attached to said moveable structure. 11. In the system of claim 10, said fiber optic cable being surrounded by a material, said material adapted to expose portions of said fiber optic cable in response to said increase in heat. 12. In the system of claim 10, said fiber optic cable deforming in response to said increase in heat. 13. In the system of claim 12, said fiber optic cable adapted to break apart in response to said increase in heat. 14. An electrostatic spray paint system comprising: a spray paint nozzle; at least one paint line coupled to the spray paint nozzle and extending therefrom for carrying paint to the spray paint nozzle; a light source spaced away from said spray paint nozzle for emitting light at at least one predetermined frequency; a light detector spaced away from said spray paint nozzle; a fiber optic cable having predetermined light transmission characteristics being changeable in response to a dangerous increased heat condition, such as fire, spontaneous combustion and the like, in the vicinity of said fiber optic cable, said fiber optic cable including a portion spaced adjacent said spray paint nozzle and a further portion spaced adjacent said at least one paint line, said fiber optic further being connected between said light source and said light detector wherein the frequency of light detected by said light detector from said light source is dependent on said light transmission characteristics, whereby said frequency of light detected will change in response to said dangerous increased heat condition; suppressing means responsive to said light detector for suppressing said dangerous increased heat condition. 15. The system of claim 14, said spray paint spray nozzle being movable, said adjacent portion of fiber optic cable and said at least one paint line being movable therewith. 16. The system of claim 15, said fiber optic cable being surrounded by a material, said material adapted to expose portions of said fiber optic cable in response to said increase in heat. 17. The system of claim 15, said fiber optic cable deforming in response to said increase in heat. 18. The system of claim 17, said fiber optic cable adapted to break apart in response to said increase in heat. 19. The system of claim 15, said spray paint nozzle further being movably secured to the free end of a movable structure such as a robot arm or the like. 20. The system of claim 19, said fiber optic cable being surrounded by a material, said material adapted to expose portions of said fiber optic cable in response to said increase in heat. 21. The system of claim 19, said fiber optic cable deforming in response to said increase in heat. 22. The system of claim 21, said fiber optic cable adapted to break apart in response to said increase in heat. 23. The system of claim 19, wherein a second further portion of said fiber optic cable is attached to said movable structure. 24. The system of claim 23, said fiber optic cable being surrounded by a material, said material adapted to expose portions of said fiber optic cable in response to said increase in heat. 25. The system of claim 23, said fiber optic cable deforming in response to said increase in heat. 26. The system of claim 25, said fiber optic cable adapted to break apart in response to said increase in heat. 