A material handling system in the form of a grappling device or of a robotic or prosthetic limb is provided which can function for performing work. The system includes a plurality of magnets including at least one electromagnet. In preferred embodiments the magnets are hinged together at opposite ends and disposed inside a sheath. By reversing the polarity of selected electromagnets in the limb, the limb or an associated material handling device can be moved from an open position to a closed position for gripping an object. In turn, by again reversing the polarity of the electromagnets, the object can be released and the limb returned to an open position. The limb may be in the form of an anatomical hand, an arm or a foot, and the resilient casing may take the form and appearance of an artificial skin. The outer skin may be a glove with the inside of the glove having electrical conductors deposited thereon with contacts engaging opposite ends of the selected magnets. A power source is connected to the conductors for reversing the polarity of the magnets.
Claims The embodiments of the invention for which an exclusive privilege and property right is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A robotic or prosthetic limb such as a hand, arm, foot, or leg, or a portion of such a limb which can be moved to function in a substantially anatomical manner, said limb comprising inn combination: an outer skin; at least two magnets including at least one electromagnet, each said magnet having a first end and a second end, each said first end of each magnet carrying or capable of carrying a first magnetic polarity and each said second end of each magnet carrying or capable of carrying a second magnetic polarity, each said magnet being linearly aligned in a manner such that one pole end of each magnet is adjacent to only one pole end of each next adjacent magnet, said magnets being disposed inside said outer skin in a first position, each said electromagnet being located and positioned within said skin inn a manner such that when it is activated its magnetic field will affect each adjacent magnet; means for pivotally attaching at least one pole end of one said electromagnet to only one pole end of an adjacent magnet by a hinge, said hinge being disposed in a joint area of the limb, wherein at least one said magnet is moveable; an electrical power source connected to each said electromagnet; and means for activating or switching the polarity of at least one said electromagnet, whereby the activating or switching of the polarity of said electromagnet causes either the switched electromagnet or one of said magnets which is adjacent to said switched electromagnet to move from a first position to a second position to thereby cause controllable movement of said limb or a portion of said limb. 2. The robotic or prosthetic limb of claim wherein said outer skin moves from said first position to a second position when the polarity of said electromagnet is changed. 3. The limb as described in claim 2 wherein the first position is an open extended position of the limb and the second position is a closed gripping position of the limb. 4. The limb as described in claim 1 wherein the first position is an open extended position of the limb and the second position is a closed gripping position of the limb. 5. The limb as described in claim 1 wherein the outer skin is a glove. 6. The limb as described in claim 5 wherein the inside surface of the glove includes electrical conductors with contacts deposited thereon, said contacts disposed and located to engage said electromagnets, the electrical conductors connected to said electrical power source. 7. A robotic or prosthetic limb such as a hand, arm, foot or leg which can function anatomically for performing work, the limb comprising: a flexible resilient artificial outer skin in the form of a glove, said glove carrying on the inside surface thereof electrical conductors with contacts; a plurality of linearly aligned adjacent electromagnets, each said electromagnet having a first end capable of carrying a first magnetic polarity and a second end capable of carrying a second magnetic polarity, one end of each said electromagnet being pivotally attached to the adjacent end of each adjacent electromagnet and disposed inside said glove in a first position, wherein said pivotal attachments use ball-bearing, toroid-shaped hinges, said hinges being disposed in a joint area of the limb; and an electrical power source connected to the conductors for changing polarity of one or moore selected electromagnet, the changing of the polarity causing said electromagnet and said glove to move from a first position to a second position. 8. The limb as described in claim 7 wherein said hinges further include disks attached to the sides thereof, said disks including photoelectric cells for sensing microfine movement of the limb. 9. The limb as described in claim 7 wherein an outer surface of the glove is covered with sensors for sensing touch and squeeze. 10. The limb as described in claim 9 wherein the sensors are in the form of a thin honeycomb structure having an electrical conductive fluid therein, said fluid changing in conductivity when the limb is exposed to touch and squeeze. 