The present invention provides a system for controlling the automatic driving of a vehicle for monitoring its performance and includes robotic controls for operating the driver controls. The relationship between accelerator and throttle-open positions at various speeds is stored and for a particular desired nominal velocity, an estimated open position for the throttle can be determined. The actual velocity of the vehicle, for example, on a dynamometer, is monitored and fed back to create further adjustment of a throttle-open position. Additionally, acceleration and brake pedal force can also be stored and an estimated brake pedal force can be derived and varied, depending upon any calculated difference between the actual velocity monitored and the desired monitored velocity. As a result of these features, a more precise robotic control of the vehicle can be established for closely responding to a predetermined driving pattern.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling an automatic driving of a vehicle, having driven control members, including a throttle for operation by a driver of the vehicle, for monitoring its performing comprising: operating means for automatically operating the driver control members, including a robotic control device for mounting in the vehicle in place of a human driver having actuators interconnecting the robotic control device with the driver control members; means for storing a relationship between acceleration and throttle open positions at various speeds of the particular vehicle being monitored; means for determining an estimated open position for the throttle required for accelerating at a nominal velocity; means for supplying the estimated throttle open position to the operating means; means for monitoring the actual velocity; means for automatically calculating the difference between the actual velocity and the nominal velocity, and means for responding to a calculated difference to adjust the control of the operating means. 2. The invention of claim 1 wherein the means for determining an estimated open position for the throttle includes a differentiator circuit. 3. The invention of claim 1 further including limiting means for providing a range of a throttle-open position. 4. The invention of claim 3 wherein the means for automatically calculating includes an integrator circuit which is inhibited from operating, if the range of the limiting means is exceeded. 5. The invention of claim 3 further including means for storing a relationship between an acceleration and a brake pedal force at respective different speed Positions of an vehicle; means for determining an estimated brake pedal force for the brake pedal at predetermined speed changing positions depending on an acceleration at a normal velocity, and means for supplying the estimated brake pedal force to the operating means. 6. The invention of claim 5 wherein, if the lower range of the limiting means is activated, an estimated brake pedal force is applied to the operating means. 7. A system for controlling an automatic driving of a vehicle, having driven control members, including a brake pedal for operation by a driver of the vehicle, for monitoring its performance comprising: operating means for automatically operating the driver control members, including a robotic control device for mounting in the vehicle in place of a human driver having activators interconnecting the robotic control device with the driver control members; means for storing a relationship between an acceleration and a brake pedal force at respective different speed positions of the vehicle; means for determining an estimated brake pedal force for the brake pedal at predetermined speed changing position depending on an acceleration at a normal velocity; means for supplying the estimated brake pedal force to the operating means; means for automatically calculating the difference between the actual velocity and the nominal velocity, and means for responding to a calculated differences to adjust the control of the operating means. 8. The invention of claim 7 further including limiting means to set a range of brake positions. 9. The invention of claim 7 further including a switch member that can block the application of a brake pedal force. 10. The invention of claim 9 further including means for monitoring the acceleration to control the position of the switch member from on to off. 11. A method for controlling an automatic driving of a vehicle, having driven control members for operation by a driver of the vehicle, for monitoring its performance in responding to a predetermined driving pattern, having robotic operating controls, comprising the steps of; installing a robotic control device in the vehicle having activators connected with the drive control members of the vehicle; automatically operating the driver control members with the robotic control device; storing a relationship between acceleration and throttle-open positions at various speeds of the particular vehicle being monitored; determining an estimated open position for the throttle required for accelerating at a nominal velocity; supplying the estimated throttle-open position to the operating means; monitoring the actual velocity; automatically calculating the difference between the actual velocity and the nominal velocity, and responding to a calculated difference to adjust the control of the robotic operating controls. 12. A method for controlling an automatic driving of a vehicle, having driver control members for operation by a driver of the vehicle, including an accelerator and brake pedal, for monitoring its performance in responding to a predetermined driving pattern, having robotic operating controls, comprising the steps of: installing the robotic operating controls in the vehicle having activators connected with the driver control members; storing a relationship between an acceleration and a brake pedal force at respective different speed positions of a vehicle; determining an estimated brake pedal force for the brake pedal at predetermined speed changing position depending on an acceleration at a normal velocity; supplying the estimated brake pedal force to the operating means; automatically calculating the difference between the actual velocity and the nominal velocity, and responding to a calculated differences by adjusting the control of the robotic operating controls. 