A mobile robot along with a method and system for a mobile robot where the robot is reconfigurable between at least two form factors.
Claims I claim: 1. A mobile robot, comprising: At least one mechanism capable of reconfiguring the robot between at least two form factors. 2. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein one form factor provides the robot with a lower profile configuration compared to the other form factor of the robot. 3. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein one form factor provides the robot with a substantially vertical configuration. 4. The robot as defined in claim 1, including at least one reconfigurable portion that is not directly associated with providing locomotion to the robot. 5. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein one form factor provides the robot with a substantially humanoid configuration. 6. The robot as defined in claim 1, including a mechanism that enables dynamic balancing of the robot. 7. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the at least two form factors provide a high profile configuration having a higher center of gravity and a low profile configuration having a lower center of gravity. 8. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein one form factor provides the robot with a smaller footprint than the other form factor. 9. The robot as defined in claim 1, including a first body portion and a second locomotion portion where the mechanism reconfigures the body portion with respect to the locomotion portion to provide at least two form factors of the robot. 10. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the robot is capable of operating in any configuration between vertical and horizontal extremes. 11. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the robot includes at least two portions, each portion providing separate functions to the robot. 12. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the robot includes at least two portions, at least one portion providing a function to the robot not provided by the other portion. 13. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the two form factors have different forms of locomotion associated with the form factor. 14. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the mechanism is contained within the confines of the mobile robot. 15. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the at least two form factors each provide a different type of locomotion to the robot. 16. A method of operating a robot comprising: Providing a mobile robot; Providing a mechanism capable or reconfiguring the mobile robot between at least two form factors; Actuating the mechanism when desired to reconfigure the mobile robot from at least one form factor to at least one other form factor. 17. The method as defined in claim 16, including actuating the mechanism to enable the robot to operate in any configuration between vertical and horizontal extremes. 18. The method as defined in claim 16, including providing a mechanism that provides dynamic balancing of the robot. 19. A robotic system, comprising: A mobile robot; A mechanism capable of reconfiguring the mobile robot between at least two form factors; Wireless communication elements for actuating the mechanism to reconfigure the robot from at least one Ruin factor to at least one other form factor. 20. A non-transitory computer readable media including program instructions which when executed by a processor causes the processor to perform the following: Provide various commands to enable desired movement of a mobile robot; and Enable the mobile robot to reconfigure itself between at least two form factors. 