The present invention comprises an apparatus and method for gravity-balanced apparatuses for training humans for space exploration and other applications. The embodiment of the simulation apparatus is less expensive to build and safe to operate and adaptable to numerous applications, including but not limited to theme parks, museums, training facilities, educational/research labs, and others, for people to experience walking and other perambulations in lower or zero gravity environments. The present invention is statically-balanced and comprises a spring apparatus that is easily adjusted. An embodiment of the present invention provides an apparatus and method for simulating walking in a zero-gravity or reduced-gravity environment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reduced-gravity simulator assembly comprising: a platform comprising at least five degrees of freedom, said platform comprising a strut and at least one spring, a first end of said spring attached to an upper portion of said strut, and a second end of said spring attached to a first end of a backplate; a second end of said backplate attached directly to a lower portion of said strut and hingeably moveable with respect to said lower portion of said strut; at least one leg exoskeleton comprising at least three degrees of freedom attached to said lower portion of said strut, said leg exoskeleton comprising a spring attachment point which is slideable with respect to a portion of said leg exoskeleton; and a treadmill. 2. The reduced-gravity simulator assembly of claim 1 wherein said five degrees of freedom platform comprises at least one parallelogram. 3. The reduced-gravity simulator assembly of claim 1 wherein said five degrees of freedom platform comprises at least one body harness. 4. The reduced-gravity simulator assembly of claim 1 wherein said three degrees of freedom leg exoskeleton supports and balances a weight of a human leg. 5. The reduced-gravity simulator assembly of claim 1 comprising two leg exoskeletons comprising at least three degrees of freedom. 6. The reduced-gravity simulator assembly of claim 1 wherein an upper portion of said leg exoskeleton attaches to a human thigh and a lower portion of said leg exoskeleton attaches to a human lower leg. 7. The reduced-gravity simulator assembly of claim 1 wherein said five degrees of freedom platform supports an entire human body weight. 8. The reduced-gravity simulator assembly of claim 1 wherein one side of said backplate is disposed adjacent to a human torso. 9. The reduced-gravity simulator of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of rotating couplings comprising hinges. 10. The reduced-gravity simulator of claim 5 further comprising eleven independent degrees of freedom. 11. The reduced-gravity simulator of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of connectors comprising spring attachment points. 12. A method of initializing a reduced-gravity simulator comprising: attaching the reduced-gravity simulator assembly to a user; attaching at least one leg exoskeleton to a lower portion of a strut and a leg of the user, the exoskeleton comprising at least three degrees of freedom; attaching at least one spring to a spring attachment point on the exoskeleton; sliding the spring attachment point relative to a portion of the exoskeleton until the pressure underneath the user is at least partially eliminated; maintaining a constant potential energy of the assembly by adjusting the spring attachment point location to statically balance the gravity force at a working configuration; and adjusting the stiffness values of the spring such that the user feels as if they are in a reduced gravity environment. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising using a treadmill to allow continuous forward walking. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein attaching to the user comprises: attaching the user's torso to a backplate; allowing the torso to freely move in five degrees of freedom; supporting at least one of the user's legs by the three degrees of freedom exoskeleton allowing free movement of the leg; and providing redundant degrees of freedom about the Z axis to allow ergonomic comfort while the user is walking. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of sliding the spring attachment point relative to a portion of the exoskeleton comprises: sliding the spring attachment points and measuring pressure until the measured pressure underneath the user's foot is completely gone but the foot still touches the treadmill; changing the body and/or leg pose; and repeatedly sliding the spring attachment point until required balancing is achieved. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein measuring pressure is measured manually. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein measuring pressure is measured automatically. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein measuring pressure automatically comprises installing an actuated spring adjustment device for the spring. 19. The method of claim 12 further comprising the steps of: scaling the spring attachment point based on the percentage of gravity which is to be reduced; and retaining a percentage of the pressure under a foot of the user because partial gravity is still present. 