Systems and methods are presented that use the rate of change of a legged robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G) in order to maintain or improve the robot's balance. In one embodiment, a control system determines the current value of {dot over (H)}.sub.G, compares this value to a threshold value, and determines an instruction to send to the robot. Executing the instruction causes the robot to remain stable or become more stable. Systems and methods are also presented that use a value derived from {dot over (H)}.sub.G in order to maintain or improve the robot's balance. In one embodiment, a control system determines the location of the Zero Rate of change of Angular Momentum (ZRAM) point (A), determines the distance between A and the location of the center of pressure of the resultant ground force, compares this value to a threshold value, and determines an instruction to send to the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-implemented method for determining an instruction to send to a legged robot, the method comprising: calculating a rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G) in accordance with the equation: {dot over (H)}.sub.G=GP.times.R, wherein G represents a location of a center of mass of the robot, R represents a resultant ground reaction force acting upon the robot, P represents a location of a center of pressure of the resultant ground reaction force, GP represents a vector from G to P, and x represents a vector product operation; determining whether the rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G) exceeds a threshold value, wherein the threshold value is based on one or more factors of a group containing a friction between the robot and a support surface, a torque limit of an actuator of the robot, a design parameter of the robot, and an inertial property of the robot; and responsive to determining that the rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G) exceeds the threshold value, using a processor to determine an instruction to send to the robot, wherein the determined instruction causes the robot to change a resultant ground reaction force acting upon the robot. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the location of the center of mass of the robot (G) prior to calculating the rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G). 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the robot comprises a plurality of segments, and wherein determining the location of the center of mass of the robot (G) comprises determining a location of a segment. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the robot comprises a plurality of segments, and wherein determining the location of the center of mass of the robot (G) comprises determining a mass of a segment. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the resultant ground reaction force acting upon the robot (R) prior to calculating the rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G). 6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the resultant ground reaction force acting upon the robot (R) comprises using a force sensor. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the threshold value. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining the threshold value comprises determining a rate of change of a human's centroidal angular momentum. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the determined instruction causes the robot to enlarge a support polygon. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the determined instruction causes the robot to enlarge a support polygon, and wherein the enlarged support polygon contains a Zero Rate of change of Angular Momentum point. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the determined instruction causes the robot to change a location of a center of mass of the robot. 12. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing executable computer program instructions for determining an instruction to send to a legged robot, the computer program instructions performing steps comprising: calculating a rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G) in accordance with the equation: {dot over (H)}.sub.G=GP.times.R, wherein G represents a location of a center of mass of the robot, R represents a resultant ground reaction force acting upon the robot, P represents a location of a center of pressure of the resultant ground reaction force, GP represents a vector from G to P, and x represents a vector product operation; determining whether the rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G) exceeds a threshold value, wherein the threshold value is based on one or more factors of a group containing a friction between the robot and a support surface, a torque limit of an actuator of the robot, a design parameter of the robot, and an inertial property of the robot; and responsive to determining that the rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G) exceeds the threshold value, determining an instruction to send to the robot, wherein the determined instruction causes the robot to change a resultant ground reaction force acting upon the robot. 13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the computer program instructions perform steps further comprising determining the location of the center of mass of the robot (G) prior to calculating the rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G). 14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the computer program instructions perform steps further comprising determining the resultant ground reaction force acting upon the robot (R) prior to calculating the rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G). 15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein determining the resultant ground reaction force acting upon the robot (R) comprises using a force sensor. 16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the computer program instructions perform steps further comprising determining the threshold value. 17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein determining the threshold value comprises determining a rate of change of a human's centroidal angular momentum. 18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the determined instruction causes the robot to enlarge a support polygon. 19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the determined instruction causes the robot to enlarge a support polygon, and wherein the enlarged support polygon contains a Zero Rate of change of Angular Momentum point. 20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the determined instruction causes the robot to change a location of a center of mass of the robot. 21. A computer system for determining an instruction to send to a legged robot, comprising: at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing executable computer program instructions comprising instructions for: calculating a rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G) in accordance with the equation: {dot over (H)}.sub.G=GP.times.R, wherein G represents a location of a center of mass of the robot, R represents a resultant ground reaction force acting upon the robot, P represents a location of a center of pressure of the resultant ground reaction force, GP represents a vector from G to P, and x represents a vector product operation; determining whether the rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G) exceeds a threshold value, wherein the threshold value is based on one or more factors of a group containing a friction between the robot and a support surface, a torque limit of an actuator of the robot, a design parameter of the robot, and an inertial property of the robot; and responsive to determining that the rate of change of the robot's centroidal angular momentum ({dot over (H)}.sub.G) exceeds the threshold value, determining an instruction to send to the robot, wherein the determined instruction causes the robot to change a resultant ground reaction force acting upon the robot; and a processor for executing the computer program instructions. 