A vacuum part handling device, attached to a robot, serially picks up magazine-loaded brackets and passes them over a double-sided adhesive tape applicator. A strip of tape is secured to a bracket flange and the robot moves the vacuum-held bracket to a final location. The handling device urges the taped flange against a structural member where it is temporarily attached at a precise position enabling accurate automatic insertion of fasteners.
Claims I claim: 1. A system, adapted for use with a robot, for handling mechanical connectors during an assembly of structural members, the system comprising: a magazine for dispensing the connectors one at a time; vacuum means for holding a connector after being dispensed; means for dispensing linearly continuous double-sided adhesive tape; means for moving the vacuum means from the magazine (a) to the dispensing means so that a length of the tape is applied to the connector; (b) and away from the dispensing means so that an edge of the connector cuts the length of tape in preparation of affixing the connector to a structural member. 2. The structure set forth in claim 1 wherein the magazine includes: means for gravitationally channeling the connectors along a preselected path; means for feeding the connectors to an exit location, one at a time; and means for displacing a connector at the exit location into contact with the vacuum means. 3. The structure set forth in claim 1 wherein the tape-dispensing means comprises: a tape supply roll; and a tape take-up roller positioned in proximity to the supply roll, the connector being displaced tangentially across the take-up roller for applying the tape to the connector. 4. The structure set forth in claim 1 wherein the vacuum means comprises a pad for contacting a connector, the pad having openings formed therein for communicating with a vacuum source. 5. The structure set forth in claim 2 wherein the tape-dispensing means comprises: a tape supply roll; a tape take-up roller positioned in proximity to the supply roll, the connector being displaced tangentially across the take-up roller for applying the tape to the connector; and further wherein the vacuum means comprises a pad for contacting a connector, the pad having openings formed therein for communicating with a vacuum source. 6. A method for holding mechanical connectors during assembly, the method comprising the steps: gravitationally dispensing the connectors along a preselected path, one at a time; displacing a connector into contact with a vacuum connector holding means; dispensing linearly continuous double-sided adhesive tape to the connector as the holding means displaces the connector from a dispensing point; and forcing a trailing edge of the connector against the tape thereby cutting the tape to a needed length; thereby preparing the connector for attachment to a structural member. 7. The method set forth in claim 6 together with the step of moving a tape-free surface of the connector against a first structural member; sliding the connector along the first structural member until a surface of the connector covered with tape engages a second structural member; de-activating the vacuum-holding means; and withdrawing the holding means thereby retaining the connector against the structural members in preparation of fastening the connector to the structural members. 