An integrated high speed robotic mechanism is disclosed for improving transport equipment, integrating an object movement with other functionalities such as alignment or identification. The disclosed integrated robot assembly typically comprises an end effector for moving the object in and out of a chamber, a rotation chuck incorporated on the robot body to provide centering and theta alignment capability, and an optional identification subsystem for identifying the object during transport. The present invention also discloses a transfer robot system, employing a plurality of integrated robot assemblies; a transfer system where a transfer robot system can service a plurality of connected chambers such as FOUP or FOSB; a front end module (FEM); or a sorter system. Through the use of these incorporated capabilities into the moving robot, single object transfer operations can exceed 500 parts per hour.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An object transfer system comprising: at least two object movement assemblies, each object movement assembly comprising: a support body; a linear x-movement mechanism coupled to the support body for linearly moving an end effector, wherein the end effector moves between a rest position and an extended position, the extended position reaching into an object station for handling an object in the object station; a rotating mechanism coupled to the support body, the rotating mechanism configured to rotate an object relative to the end effector when the end effector is at rest position; and an additional movement mechanism for moving the support body; and a controller for coordinating the at least two object movement assemblies so that the rotating mechanism rotates an object during the movements of the additional movement mechanisms of the at least two object assemblies, during the movements of the x-movement mechanism of the other object assembly, but not during the movement of the x-movement mechanism of the same object assembly. 2. An object transfer system as in claim 1 wherein the additional movement mechanism is configured to move between a plurality of y-positions for handling an object in different locations in an object station. 3. An object transfer system as in claim 1 wherein the additional movement mechanism is configured to move between a plurality of object stations. 4. An object transfer system as in claim 1 wherein each object movement assembly further comprises a reading mechanism coupled to the support body for reading an ID from an object. 5. An object transfer system as in claim 4 wherein the reading mechanism is configure to identify the object during the movements of the additional movement mechanisms of the at least two object assemblies, during the movements of the x-movement mechanism of the other object assembly, but not during the movement of the x-movement mechanism of the same object assembly. 6. An object transfer system for transferring a plurality of objects between a plurality of object stations, the object transferring assembly comprising: a support body; at least two object movement assemblies, each object movement assembly comprising: a linear x-movement mechanism coupled to the support body for linearly moving an end effector, wherein the end effector moves between a rest position and an extended position, the extended position reaching into an object station for handling an object in the object station; and a rotating mechanism coupled to the support body, the rotating mechanism configured to rotate an object relative to the end effector when the end effector is at rest position; an additional movement mechanism for moving the support body; and a controller for coordinating the at least two object movement assemblies so that the rotating mechanism rotates an object during the movements of the additional movement mechanisms of the at least two object assemblies, during the movements of the x-movement mechanism of the other object assembly, but not during the movement of the x-movement mechanism of the same object assembly. 7. An object transfer system as in claim 6 wherein the additional movement mechanism is configured to move between a plurality of y-positions for handling an object in different locations in an object station. 8. An object transfer system as in claim 6 wherein each object movement assembly further comprises a reading mechanism coupled to the support body for reading an ID from an object. 9. An object transfer system as in claim 8 wherein the reading mechanism is configure to identify the object during the movements of the additional movement mechanisms of the at least two object assemblies, during the movements of the x-movement mechanism of the other object assembly, but not during the movement of the x-movement mechanism of the same object assembly. 10. An object transfer system as in claim 5 wherein the controller is configured to decide the destination of the object by the identification of the object. 11. An object transfer system comprising: a support body; at least two object movement assemblies, each object movement assembly comprising: a linear x-movement mechanism coupled to the support body for linearly moving an end effector, wherein the end effector moves between a rest position and an extended position, the extended position reaching into an object station for handling an object in the object station; and a rotating mechanism coupled to the support body, the rotating mechanism configured to rotate an object relative to the end effector when the end effector is at rest position; a theta movement mechanism for rotating the support body between a plurality of object stations; a linear y-movement mechanism for linearly moving the support body for handling an object in different locations in the object station; a linear z-movement mechanism for linearly moving the support body between a plurality of object stations; and a controller for coordinating the at least two object movement assemblies so that the rotating mechanism rotates an object during the movements of the theta, y- and z-movement mechanisms of the at least two object assemblies, during the movements of the x-movement mechanism of the other object assembly, but not during the movement of the x-movement mechanism of the same object assembly. 12. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 11 wherein the rotating mechanism configured to align the object. 13. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 11 wherein each object movement assembly further comprises a reading mechanism coupled to the support body for reading an ID from an object. 14. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 13 wherein the reading mechanism is configure to identify the object during the movements of the y-movement mechanisms of the at least two object assemblies, during the movements of the x-movement mechanism of the other object assembly, but not during the movement of the x-movement mechanism of the same object assembly. 15. A semiconductor equipment as in claim 11 wherein the controller is configured to decide the destination of the object by the identification of the object. 16. A method for simultaneous object transfer for a transfer system, the transfer system comprising at least two linear x-movement mechanisms, each for linearly handling an object in an object location; at least two rotating mechanisms, each for rotating an object relative to the corresponding x-movement mechanism; and at least an additional movement mechanism for moving between different object locations; the method comprising: rotating an object relative to the corresponding x-movement mechanism during the movements of the additional movement mechanisms, during the movements of the x-movement mechanism of the other object assembly, but not during the movement of the x-movement mechanism of the same object assembly. 17. A method as in claim 16 wherein rotating an object further comprises aligning the object to an alignment mark. 18. A method as in claim 16 wherein rotating an object further comprises identifying the object by reading an ID mark. 19. A method as in claim 16 wherein movements of the additional movement mechanism comprises at least one of movements between object locations of different object stations, and movements between object locations within an object station. 20. A method as in claim 16 wherein rotating an object during movements of the y-movement mechanism between object locations comprises rotating the object while the supports for all objects move to different object locations. 21. A method for simultaneous object transfer for a transfer system, the transfer system comprising at least two linear x-movement mechanisms, each for linearly handling an object in an object location; at least two rotating mechanism, each for rotating an object relative to the corresponding x-movement mechanism; and at least an additional movement mechanism for moving between different object locations; the method comprising: while the y-movement mechanism linearly moves to a new object location and while a x-movement mechanism linearly handles an object: extending a rotating chuck of the rotating mechanism of the other object; rotating the other object relative to the corresponding x-movement mechanism after extending the rotating chuck; and retracting the rotating chuck after completing the rotation. 22. A method as in claim 21 wherein rotating an object further comprises aligning the object to an alignment mark. 23. A method as in claim 21 wherein rotating an object further comprises identifying the object by reading an ID mark. 24. A method as in claim 21 wherein additional movements to an object location comprises at least one of movements between object locations of different object stations, and movements between object locations within an object station. 25. A method as in claim 21 wherein there are at least two additional movement mechanisms for movements between object locations within an object station and for movements between object stations. 