A robot assembly station is provided for use with a programmable distribution system which includes a moving belt for transferring articles between various locations. The assembly station comprises various functional elements which engage and further position articles being received from the moving belt securing the articles in a final work position in a relatively rigid, accurately aligned configuration.
Claims I claim: 1. A robot assembly station for use with a programmable distribution system which includes a moving belt for transferring articles between various locations, said robot assembly station comprising: A. a sweep arm structure comprising: (1) in plan view, first and second substantially straight arms joined together substantially orthogonally at a vertex, (2) means holding said arm structure with its vertex alongside but off said belt for permitting rotation of said arm about said vertex, and (3) means providing rotating power to said arm structure for moving it between a rest position and an article capturing position, said rest position holding said arm structure with said first arm substantially parallel to said belt and the second arm extending away therefrom, said article capturing position being with said first arm extending across said belt to capture an article in an acute angle made by said first arm and the length of said belt, said acute angle being in excess of 45.degree., whereby an article being carried by the belt is stopped by said first arm and slid by action of the belt therealong toward the second arm, the article being removed from the belt by rotating said arm structure from its arm capturing position to its rest position, thus locating said object in a receiving orientation on an assembly table; B. an assembly table structure comprising: (1) a substantially horizontal support surface for supporting said article, (2) first and second pushers biased normally in a substantially vertical position but being pivotally mounted to rotate in such a manner as to allow the article to slide thereover when said article is being accepted onto the assembly table by said sweep arm structure but which assume their normally vertical orientations once the article is past, (3) means for advancing said first pusher to an intermediate position at least to a point beyond said second pusher, (4) means for advancing said second pusher and thus said article to a final position, (5) means provided on said second pusher for engaging said article and securing it in its final work position in a relatively rigid, accurately aligned configuration, and (6) at least one substantially vertical projection arranged to project from the surface of the assembly table and positioned to provide a forward stop to the article, and (7) means for pushing the article away from said vertical projections after the article is no longer required to reside at the robot assembly station. 2. The robot assembly station of claim 1 wherin said second pusher comprises two pusher elements, each functionally connected to advancement means. 3. The robot assembly station of claim 2 wherein the forward face of each pusher possesses means for securely engaging complementary surfaces located proximate the corners of the article. 4. The robot assembly station of claim 1 wherein said vertical projection possesses means for securely engaging a complementary surface of the article. 5. The robot assembly station of claim 1 wherein means is further provided for pushing the article off the assembly station and onto an adjoining station after the article is no longer required to reside at the robot assembly station. 