A tape library is provided with a fixed coupling mechanism so that the tape library includes discrete locations via which power and communication are provided to an accessor. The use of such a coupling mechanism in a vertical tape library allows for the use of gravity to ensure that the accessor can couple with the fixed coupling mechanism even when no power is present in the accessor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage device comprising: a storage device housing, the storage device housing comprising a fixed coupling mechanism, an accessor, the accessor comprising an accessor coupling mechanism, the accessor coupling mechanism being positioned to couple with the fixed coupling mechanism as the accessor travels within the storage device housing; and, a control device; and wherein communication information is exchanged between the accessor and the control device when the fixed coupling mechanism is coupled to the accessor coupling mechanism. 2. The storage device of claim 1 wherein: the storage device housing includes a plurality of rows of storage bins; and, fixed coupling mechanisms are positioned at each of the plurality of rows of storage bins. 3. The storage device of claim 1 further comprising: at least one drive; and wherein the storage device housing includes a plurality of rows of storage bins; and, a fixed coupling mechanism is positioned to correspond to the at least one drive. 4. The storage device of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of drives; and wherein the storage device housing includes a plurality of rows of storage bins; and, a fixed coupling mechanism is positioned to correspond to each of the plurality of drives. 5. A tape storage system comprising: a host; a storage device coupled to the host, the storage device comprising a storage device housing, the storage device housing comprising a fixed coupling mechanism, an accessor, the accessor comprising an accessor coupling mechanism, the accessor coupling mechanism being positioned to couple with the fixed coupling mechanism as the accessor travels within the storage device housing; and, a control device; and wherein communication information is exchanged between the accessor and the control device when the fixed coupling mechanism is coupled to the accessor coupling mechanism. 6. The tape storage system of claim 5 wherein: the storage device housing includes a plurality of rows of storage bins; and, fixed coupling mechanisms are positioned at each of the plurality of rows of storage bins. 7. The tape storage system of claim 5 wherein the storage device further comprises: at least one drive; the storage device housing includes a plurality of rows of storage bins; and, a fixed coupling mechanism is positioned to correspond to the at least one drive. 8. The tape storage system of claim 5 wherein the storage device further comprises: a plurality of drives; the storage device housing includes a plurality of rows of storage bins; and, a fixed coupling mechanism is positioned to correspond to each of the plurality of drives. 