A robotically operated device uses an ultrasonic transducer for the cleaning of ships' hulls. The device may also be used for spraying paints or other chemicals on the sides of ships' hulls. The device includes a housing having an open face adapted to confront a ship's hull and apparatus disposed in the housing for impinging a flow of fluid through the open face onto the ship's hull. An ultrasonic transducer is disposed in the housing for impinging a flow of ultrasonic energy through the open face onto the ship's hull. Apparatus connected to the outside of the housing retains the housing on the ship's hull and moves the housing on the ship's hull. In an additional embodiment, apparatus for spraying paint or other chemicals on a ship's hull is disposed in the housing.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic ultrasonic device for cleaning ships' hulls while in dry dock comprising: a housing having an open face adapted to confront a ship's hull; means disposed in said housing for impinging a flow of fluid through said open face onto said ship's hull while in dry dock; ultrasonic means disposed in said housing for impinging a flow of ultrasonic energy through said open face onto said fluid dlow impinging on said ship's hull while in dry dock; means connected to the outside of said housing for retaining said housing on the ship's hull and moving said housing on the ship's hull. 2. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 1 further comprising means disposed in said housing for containing the fluid impinged through said open face within the housing. 3. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 2 wherein said means for containing the fluid comprises a tube disposed around the periphery of the open face of said housing, said tube having a slit formed therein for blowing an air curtain around the periphery of the open face against the ship's hull. 4. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 3 wherein said means for containing the fluid further comprises a blower manifold connected with said tube and air motor connected with said manifold for generating said air curtain. 5. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 1 wherein said means for impinging a flow of fluid comprises at least one fluid spray head. 6. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 5 wherein said means for impinging a flow of fluid comprises a plurality of spray heads arranged in a plurality of rows, each of said rows defining a line which is disposed parallel to the plane of the open face of said housing. 7. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 6 wherein each of the spray heads is provided with a fluid manifold connected to each of the spray heads in said row. 8. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 7 wherein each fluid manifold is connected to a fluid supply which is located externally of said housing. 9. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 1 wherein said ultrasonic means comprises at least one ultrasonic transducer. 10. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 9 in which said ultrasonic means comprises a plurality of ultrasonic transducers each of which is arranged in a plane parallel to the plane of the open face of said housing. 11. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 9 in which said housing has a pair of opposed side walls wherein the means for retaining the housing on the ship's hull and moving the housing on the ship's hull comprises: an endless flexible belt having an inside surface and an outside surface, a plurality of electromagnets arranged along the entire length of the belt extending through the width of the belt so that each of said electromagnets is exposed at both the inside and outside surfaces of the belt, a plurality of teeth formed on the inside surface of the belt along the entire length of the belt; an electrical current contact strip mounted on a side wall of said housing in contact with a portion of said electromagnets to supply electrical current to said electromagnets; a pair of gears entraining said belt and contacting the teeth of said belt; and means mounted on said housing for rotating said gears to drive said belt around said gears. 12. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 11 wherein a pair of gears is provided on both of the opposed side walls of the housing, a belt is entrained around each of said pairs of gears, an electrical current contact strip is mounted on each of said side wall in contact with a portion of the electromagnets of each of said belts, and means are provided on both of the side walls of said housing for rotating each of said pairs of gears to drive each of said belts around the respective pair of gears on which said belts are entrained. 13. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 12 wherein each of said means for rotating each of said pairs of gears are operable independently of one another, whereby each of said belts are independently driveable around the respective pair of gears on which said belts are entrained. 14. The robotic ultrasonic cleaning device of claim 1 further comprising a vacuum line connected with said housing for exhausting the flow of fluid impinged on the ship's hull from said housing to a location remote from said housing. 15. A device for continuously spraying paint or other chemicals on a dry docked ship's hull while moving said device on said ship's hull comprising: a housing having an open face adapted to confront the ship's hull; spray means disposed in said housing for continuously spraying paint or other chemicals through said open face onto the ship's hull; air curtain means disposed in said housing for containing within said housing the paint or other chemicals which have been sprayed; and means connected to the outside of said housing for retaining said housing on the ship's hull and moving said housing on the ship's hull while continuously spraying paint or other chemicals onto said ship's hull, whereby said sprayed paint or other chemicals are contained within said housing during said continuous spraying. 16. The device of claim 15 wherein the means for retaining the housing on the ship's hull and moving the housing on the ship's hull comprises: an endless flexible belt having an inside surface and an outside surface, a plurality of electromagnets arranged along the entire length of the belt extending through the width of the belt so that each of said electromagnets is exposed at both the inside and outside surfaces of the belt, a plurality of teeth formed on the inside surface of the belt along the entire length of the belt; an electrical current contact strip mounted on a side wall of said housing in contact with a portion of said electromagnets to supply electrical current to said electromagnets; a pair of gears entraining said belt and contacting the teeth of said belt; and means mounted on said housing for rotating said gears to drive said belt around said gears. 17. The device of claim 16 wherein a pair of gears is provided on said sidewall of the housing and a pair of gears is provided on an opposed side wall of the housing, a belt is entrained around each of said pairs of gears, an electrical current contact strip is mounted on each of said side walls in contact with a portion of the electromagnets of each of said belts, and means are provided on both of the side walls of said housing for rotating each of said pairs of gears to drive each of said belts around the respective pair of gears on which said belts are entrained. 18. The device of claim 17 wherein each of said means for rotating each of said pairs of gears are operable independently of one another, whereby each of said belts are independently driveable around the respective pair of gears on which said belts are entrained. 