The present invention relates to hard coating of ferrous metal substrates using a laser beam with diamond particles in a metal matrix produced from precursor powders of metals which bond to the diamond particles and to the ferrous substrate. The hard coating is particularly useful for white iron castings for pumps (200) used in piping tar sand and water mixtures.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for hard faced surface coating of diamond particles in a metal matrix on a ferrous metal substrate containing carbon, which comprises: (a) a first support means for holding the ferrous metal substrate; (b) a device mounted on a second support means for delivering a laser beam on one axis towards the ferrous metal substrate to provide a heating zone on the ferrous metal substrate; and (c) a supply means nozzle which is mounted adjacent the first support means for supplying diamond particles and metal particles (i) in a rotating, diverging pattern that expands from a cyclone nozzle on the supply means and (ii) onto the ferrous metal substrate in the heating zone which is heated by the laser beam to provide the heat to fuse the metal particles to form the metal matrix on the ferrous metal substrate in the presence of a shield gas; (d) a means adjacent the heating zone for supplying the shield gas independent of the nozzle to prevent oxidation of the diamond and metal particles in the heating zone on the ferrous substrate, wherein: (i) the laser beam is capable of bonding the diamond particles to the metal matrix on the ferrous metal substrate at a temperature controlled so as to not degrade the diamond particles to provide the hard faced surface coating in the metal matrix as the hard faced surface coating, and (ii) the apparatus is adapted to deposit multiple tracks of the coating as the hard faced surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 adapted to provide the metal particles applied to the heating zone by moving the substrate on the first support means. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 adapted to provide the multiple tracks of the coating on the substrate which are adjacent to each other. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 adapted so that the multiple tracks of the coating on the substrate are overlapping. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 adapted so that the supply means nozzle, or the first support means is robotically driven or moved by a CNC controlled system or both are so driven. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 adapted so that the laser beam is delivered separately from the supply means nozzle for delivery of the diamond particles and the metal particles. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the device delivering the laser and supply means are both in the same nozzle. 