A rotatable lever and an initially transversely disposed adjustable linkage echanism for attachment in predetermined relation to at least one movable work-performing arm and operable such that upon rotation of the lever and linkage mechanism responsive to pivotal rotary movement of the lever portion thru a designated travel arc of at least approximately 90.degree., the movable arm moves much more rapidly during the first approximate one-half to three-quarters of its designated travel arc, and thereafter continues to move progressively slower in a firm positive manner thru the remainder of the travel arc, while moving from its transverse relationship to a generally parallel or linearly aligned relationship. This simplified mechanism is non-servo in character and relatively low cost compared to servo devices embodying continuous sensing and feedback circuitry. Among various uses are easy association with various known industrial type robot devices embodying programmed control of articulated mechanical arms. This new mechanism preferably includes a reversible electric motor for rotating the actuating lever, and also includes either manual or similar reversible motor-actuated, adjustable linkage mechanism interconnected therewith to vary the mechanical advantage, relative travel distance and speed of the lever-linkage mechanism and one or more actuating arms. This adjustment feature facilitates this assembly's cooperation with different size/type workpieces, including handling of fragile items.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a mechanism that comprises movable work-engaging arm means having a variable length stroke from a fixed start position to a variable final end position: the improvement comprising a power mechanism for operating the work-engaging arm means between its start position and its end position, said power mechanism comprising a lever having a swing axis, motor means for moving said lever through a predetermined arc around the swing axis, and a hydraulic cylinder with a piston disposed therein, said piston having a rod projecting from said cylinder, said rod having a first pivotal connection with the lever so that movement of the lever through its predetermined arc causes the piston to move within the cylinder which enables the hydraulic cylinder to effect motion of the work-engaging arm means from its start position to its end position and said pivotal connection being adjustable along the lever to positions spaced different distances from the lever swing axis, to thus vary the stroke distance traveled by the piston within the cylinder and the associated stroke distance traveled by the work-engaging arm means. 2. The improvement of claim 1 wherein the hydraulic cylinder has a second pivotal connection spaced from the first pivotal connection; the hydraulic cylinder and lever being oriented so that when the work-engaging arm means is in its start position an imaginary straight line from the lever swing axis through the first pivotal connection extends at an appreciable angle to an imaginary straight line extending between the two pivotal connections, and when the work-engaging arm means is in its final end position the lever swing axis and the two pivotal connections are substantially aligned on an imaginary straight line, whereby the arm means has a relatively fast motion during the initial stages of its movement and a relatively slow motion during the last stages of its movement. 3. The improvement of claim 1 wherein the lever moves through an arc of approximately 90.degree. to operate the arm means from its start position to its final end position. 4. The improvement of claim 1 and further comprising means for slidably adjusting the first pivotal connection toward or away from the lever swing axis. 5. The improvement of claim 4 wherein the slidable adjusting means comprises a non-rotary nut carried by the first pivotal connection and a rotary screw mounted on the lever. 6. The improvement of claim 5 wherein the slidable adjusting means further comprises a motor mounted on the lever for effecting rotation of the screw. 7. The improvement of claim 5 wherein the slidable adjusting means further comprises a manual knob carried by the screw for effecting screw rotation. 8. The improvement of claim 1 wherein the work-engaging arm means is a jaw means adapted to apply a gripping force on the work when said arm means is in its end position. 9. The improvement of claim 1, wherein the work-engaging arm means is a jaw means adapted to apply a gripping force on the work when said arm means is in its final end position; the improvement further comprising a second hydraulic cylinder with a piston disposed therein, said piston having a rod projecting from said second cylinder, the rod being connected to said jaw means for moving same between the aforementioned end and start positions, and fluid connections between the two hydraulic cylinders for translating motion of the piston within the first hydraulic cylinder into motion of the piston within the second hydraulic cylinder. 