The invention relates to a robotic workstation (1), comprising at least one multiple-axis parts-handling robot (7) having an arm (9) with a free end that is provided with a parts support (10), and first and second operational units (5, 6) for co-operating functionally with the support, and wherein the support comprises a body (11) provided with locations (14) for receiving parts, said locations being arranged so that each of them is accessible simultaneously by one of the operational units. The invention also provides a method of controlling the station.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic workstation comprising at least one multiple-axis parts-handling robot having an arm with a free end that is provided with a parts support, and first and second operational units for co-operating functionally with the support, and wherein the support comprises a body provided with locations for receiving parts, said locations being arranged so that each of them is accessible simultaneously by one of the operational units, wherein the body of the support has a plurality of faces, each defining a location for receiving parts. 2. The workstation according to claim 1, wherein the locations are arranged on two opposite faces of the body, the body being mounted on the free end of the arm of the handling robot to pivot about an axis extending symmetrically relative to the faces. 3. The workstation according to claim 1, including at least as many operational units suitable for co-operating functionally with the support as the body of the support has faces provided with locations for receiving parts. 4. A robotic workstation comprising at least one multiple-axis parts-handling robot having an arm with a free end that is provided with a parts support, and first and second operational units for co-operating functionally with the support, and wherein the support comprises a body provided with locations for receiving parts, said locations being arranged so that each of them is accessible simultaneously by one of the operational units, wherein the handling robot includes a support changer. 5. The workstation according to claim 4, wherein as least one of the operational units is arranged to co-operate operationally with at least two faces of the support in succession. 6. A robotic workstation comprising at least one multiple-axis parts-handling robot having an arm with a free end that is provided with a parts support, and first and second operational units for co-operating functionally with the support, and wherein the support comprises a body provided with locations for receiving parts, said locations being arranged so that each of them is accessible simultaneously by one of the operational units, wherein the locations are provided with means for geometrically positioning parts. 7. A robotic workstation comprising at least one multiple-axis parts-handling robot having an arm with a free end that is provided with a parts support, and first and second operational units for co-operating functionally with the support, and wherein the support comprises a body provided with locations for receiving parts, said locations being arranged so that each of them is accessible simultaneously by one of the operational units, wherein at least one of the locations is provided with means for retaining an optional holding frame for holding a part for assembling to a part that is positioned in the location. 8. A robotic workstation comprising at least one multiple-axis parts-handling robot having an arm with a free end that is provided with a parts support, and first and second operational units for co-operating functionally with the support, and wherein the support comprises a body provided with locations for receiving parts, said locations being arranged so that each of them is accessible simultaneously by one of the operational units, wherein the first operational unit is a loading robot for loading parts on the support. 9. A robotic workstation comprising at least one multiple-axis parts-handling robot having an arm with a free end that is provided with a parts support, and first and second operational units for co-operating functionally with the support, and wherein the support comprises a body provided with locations for receiving parts, said locations being arranged so that each of them is accessible simultaneously by one of the operational units, wherein the first operational unit is an unloading robot for unloading parts from the support. 10. A robotic workstation comprising at least one multiple-axis parts-handling robot having an arm with a free end that is provided with a parts support, and first and second operational units for co-operating functionally with the support, and wherein the support comprises a body provided with locations for receiving parts, said locations being arranged so that each of them is accessible simultaneously by one of the operational units, wherein the second operational unit is a substantially stationary work head, the station including a control unit arranged to coordinate movements of the handling robot and of the first operational unit. 11. The workstation according to claim 10, wherein the handling robot and at least one of the operational units are connected to a common control unit. 12. A method of controlling a workstation comprising at least one handling robot having an arm with a free end provided with a support provided with at least first and second parts-receiving locations, a loading robot for loading parts into the locations, and an operational unit, the locations being disposed so that each of them is accessible simultaneously by the loading robot and the operational unit, the method comprising the steps of: controlling the loading robot to load a part in the first location; controlling the handling robot to present the part received in the first location to the operational unit; and controlling the operational unit to perform an operation on the part as presented thereto and controlling the loading robot to load a part in the second location while the operation is being performed by the operational unit. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein during the operation, the handling robot moves the support and the loading robot is controlled in coordination with the handling robot to load the part into the second location. 