A robotic system that can have a body and four flippers is described. Any or all of the flippers can be rotated. The flippers can have self-cleaning tracks. The tracks can be driven or passive. The robotic system can be controlled by, and send audio and/or video to and/or from, a remote operator control module. The methods of using and making the robotic system are also described.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic vehicle system comprising: a chassis; a mobility assistance component configured to propel the robotic vehicle system; and a release coupling attaching the chassis to the mobility assistance component; wherein the mobility assistance component is retractable with respect to the chassis when the release coupling is activated, and wherein the release coupling is configured to be activated by at least about a 45 Nm torque applied to the mobility assistance device. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the release coupling is configured to be activated by at least about a 100 Nm torque applied to the mobility assistance device. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the mobility assistance component is rotatably retractable and rotatably extendable with respect to the chassis when the release coupling is activated. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a motor and a track on the mobility assistance component, and wherein the motor is configured to drive the track around the mobility assistance component. 5. A method for using a robotic vehicle system comprising a chassis, a mobility assistance component, and a release coupling attaching the chassis to the mobility assistance component, the method comprising: activating the release coupling; and retracting the mobility assistance component toward the chassis after activating the release coupling, and wherein activating the release coupling comprises applying at least about a 45 Nm torque to the mobility assistance device. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein activating the release coupling comprises applying at least about a 100 Nm torque to the mobility assistance device. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the retracting of the mobility assistance component comprises rotating the mobility assistance component with respect to the chassis. 8. The method of claim 5, further comprising extending the mobility assistance component away from the chassis. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein extending the mobility assistance component comprises rotating the mobility assistance component with respect to the chassis. 10. The method of claim 5, further comprising driving a track on the mobility assistance device. 11. A robotic vehicle system comprising: a chassis; a mobility assistance component configured to propel the robotic vehicle system; and a release coupling attaching the chassis to the mobility assistance component; wherein the mobility assistance component is retractable with respect to the chassis when the release coupling is activated, and wherein the release coupling is configured to be activated by at least about a 15 Nm torque applied to the mobility assistance device. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the mobility assistance component is rotatably retractable and rotatably extendable with respect to the chassis when the release coupling is activated. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the system further comprises a motor and a track on the mobility assistance component, and wherein the motor is configured to drive the track around the mobility assistance component. 14. A method for using a robotic vehicle system comprising a chassis, a mobility assistance component, and a release coupling attaching the chassis to the mobility assistance component, the method comprising: activating the release coupling; and retracting the mobility assistance component toward the chassis after activating the release coupling, and wherein activating the release coupling comprises applying at least about a 15 Nm torque to the mobility assistance device. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the retracting of the mobility assistance component comprises rotating the mobility assistance component with respect to the chassis. 16. The method of claim 14, further comprising extending the mobility assistance component away from the chassis. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein expanding the mobility assistance component comprises rotating the mobility assistance component with respect to the chassis. 18. The method of claim 14, further comprising driving a track on the mobility assistance device. 