A fiber optic sensor array includes a row of transmitting optical fibers, with a column of detecting optical fibers overlapping the transmitting fibers. A planar compliant spacer separates the transmitting fibers from the detecting fibers, so that a sensor element is defined at each location where a detecting fiber overlaps a transmitting fiber. The surfaces of each transmitting fiber and each receiving fiber are modified at the location of each sensor element to increase the optical coupling between the transmitting fiber and the receiving fiber at that element. The spacer in the array includes an opening between the transmitting fiber and the detecting fiber at the location of each sensor element. A support surface is affixed to the detecting fibers opposite the compliant spacer and a protective cover layer is affixed to the transmitting fibers opposite the compliant spacer. An array of light emitting elements, with each element in the emitting array being adapted to transmit light into one of the transmitting fibers, and an array of light detecting elements, each element in the detecting array being adapted to detect light emanating from one of the detecting fibers are provided. A clock times the emission of light from each emitting element and times the detection of light at each detecting element. The clock is connected to cause each detecting element to detect light in sequence after each emitting element has emitted light.
Claims We claim: 1. A fiber optic sensor array, comprising: a plurality of transmitting optical fibers; a plurality of detecting optical fibers overlapping the transmitting fibers; a planar compliant spacer separating the transmitting fibers from the detecting fibers; an array of light emitting elements, each element in the emitting array being adapted to transmit light into one of the transmitting fibers; and an array of light detecting elements, each element in the detecting array being adapted to detect light emanating from one of the detecting fibers, such that a sensor elements is defined at each location were a detecting fiber overlaps a transmitting fiber, whereby light diverted out of the transmitting fiber at each element by inhomogeneities in the transmitting fiber is coupled into the detecting fiber at the element by inhomogeneities in the detecting fiber, the amount of light coupled into the detecting fiber being proportional to the distance between the transmitting fiber and the detecting fiber at the element. 2. The sensor array of claim 1, wherein the surfaces of each transmitting fiber and each detecting fiber are modified at the location of each sensor element to increase the optical coupling between the transmitting fiber and the detecting fiber at that element. 3. The sensor array of claim 2, wherein the spacer further comprises a planar compliant spacer which is optically transparent. 4. The sensor array of claim 2, wherein the spacer furher comprises an opening between the transmitting fiber and the detecting fiber at the location of each sensor element. 5. The sensor array claim 1, wherein the axis of each transmitting fiber is parallel to the axes of the other transmitting fibers and the axis of each detecting fiber is parallel to the axes of the other detecting fibers. 6. The sensor array of claim 5, wherein the axes of the transmitting fibers are perpendicular to the axes of the detecting fibers. 7. The sensor array of claim 1, wherein the axis of each transmitting fiber is parallel to the axis of the corresponding detecting fiber at the location of each sensor element. 8. The sensor array of claim 1, further comprising a support surface affixed to the plurality of detecting fibers opposite the compliant spacer. 9. The sensor array of claim 8, further comprising a protective cover layer affixed to the plurality of transmitting fibers opposite the compliant spacer. 10. The sensor array of claim 1, further comprising a clock for timing the emission of light from each emitting element and for timing the detection of light at each detecting element. 11. The sensor array of claim 10, wherein the clock is connected to cause each detecting element to detect light in sequence after each emitting element has emitted light. 12. A fiber optic sensor array, comprising: a plurality of transmitting optical fibers, the axis of each transmitting fiber being parallel to the axes of the other transmitting fibers; a plurality of detcting optical fibers overlapping the transmitting fibers, the axis of each detecting fiber being parallel to the axes of the other detecting fibers and perpendicular to the axes of the transmitting fibers; a planar compliant spacer separating the transmitting fibers from the detecting fibers; an array of light emitting elements, each element in the emitting array being adapted to transmit light into one of the transmitting fibers; and an array of light detecting elements, each elment in the detecting array being adapted to detect light emanating from one of the detecting fibers, such that a sensor is defined at each location where a detecting fiber overlaps a transmitting fiber, the surfaces of each transmitting fiber and each detecting fiber being modified at the location of each sensor element and an opening being provided in the spacer between the transmitting fiber and the detecting fiber at the location of each sensor element to increase the optical coupling between the transmitting fiber and the detecting fiber at that element, whereby light diverted out of the transmitting fiber at each element by inhomogeneities in the transmitting fiber is coupled into the detecting fiber at the element by inhomogeneities in the detecting fiber, the amount of light coupled into the detecting fiber being proportional to the distance between the transmitting fiber and the detecting fiber at the element. 13. The sensor array of claim 12, further comprising a support surface affixed to the plurality of detecting fibers opposite the compliant spacer. 14. The sensor array of claim 13, further comprising a protective cover layer affixed to the plurality of transmitting fibers opposite the compliant spacer. 15. The sensor array of claim 12, further comprising a clock for timing the emission of light from each emitting element and for timing the detection of light at each detecting element. 16. The sensor array of claim 15, wherein the clock is connected to cause each detecting element to detect light in sequence after each emitting element has emitted light. 17. A method of sensing a force distribution over a two dimensional area, comprising the step of: providing a plurality of transmitting optical fibers; providing a plurality of detecting optical fibers overlapping the transmitting fibers; attaching a planar compliant spacer to the transmitting and detecting fibers to separate the transmitting fibers from the detecting fibers; arranging the transmitting and detecting fibers such that a sensor element is defined at each location where a detecting fiber overlaps a transmitting fiber; affixing the detecting fibers to a support surface; applying the force distribution to the fiber and spacer arrangement; sequentially injecting light into each of the transmitting fibers; sequentially detecting the light transmitted by each of the detecting fibers after light is injected into each transmitting fiber, thereby measuring the quantity of light diverted from a transmitting fiber by inhomogeneities in the transmitting fiber and coupled to a detecting fiber by inhomogeneities in the detecting fiber at each sensor element; and relating the relative amount of light detected at each sensor element to the force distribution. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of modifying the surfaces of each transmitting fiber and each detecting fiber at the location of each sensor element to increase the optical coupling between the transmitting fiber and the detecting fiber at that element. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising the steps of: orienting the axis of each transmitting fiber parallel to the axes of the other transmitting fibers; and orienting the axis of each detecting fiber parallel to the axes of the other detecting fibers. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising the step of orienting the axes of the transmitting fibers perpendicular to the axes of the detecting fibers. 21. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of orienting the axis of each transmitting fiber parallel to the axis of the corresponding detecting fiber at the location of each sensor element. 