A lower extremity enhancer to be worn by a user includes two leg supports having a plurality of jointed links. Proximal ends of the leg supports are connected to a back frame. Distal ends of the leg supports are connected to two foot links. The leg supports are powered by a plurality of actuators adapted to apply torques to the leg supports in response to movement of the user's legs.
Claims We claim: 1. A lower extremity enhancer to be worn by a user, the enhancer comprising: two leg supports, each having a shank link and thigh link; a back frame connected to proximal ends of the leg supports; two foot links connected to distal ends of the leg supports; and a plurality of mechanical actuators configured to apply torques to the leg supports, wherein each foot link is rotatably jointed to a shank link of each leg support by a spring joint and configured to move in abduction and adduction. 2. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 1 wherein the spring comprises a compliant plate. 3. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 1 wherein the leg supports may be separable from the back frame. 4. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 1 wherein the shank links and thigh links incorporate adjustment mechanisms to shorten or extend their lengths. 5. A lower extremity enhancer to be worn by a user to, the enhancer comprising: leg supports, each leg support having a shank link and thigh link; a back frame connected to proximal ends of the leg supports; two foot links connected to distal ends of the leg supports; and a plurality of mechanical actuators configured to apply torques to the leg supports, wherein the lower extremity enhancer is configured to operate in both an unpowered and powered state. 6. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 5 wherein when the lower extremity enhancer operates is an unpowered state, it allows the user to move while carrying a heavy load substantially unencumbered by the enhancer. 7. A lower extremity enhancer to be worn by a user, the enhancer comprising: two leg supports having a plurality of jointed links; a back frame connected to proximal ends of the leg supports; two foot links connected to distal ends of the leg supports; a plurality of mechanical actuators configured to apply torques to the leg supports; and a controller, wherein the controller controls the mechanical actuators so that the user cannot unknowingly step too far beyond the center of the gravity of the enhancer and the load. 8. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 7 wherein the controller increases the impedance of the lower extremity enhancer when the user approaches a motion that exceeds some safe boundary. 9. A lower extremity enhancer to be worn by a user, the enhancer comprising: two leg supports having a plurality of jointed links; a back frame connected to proximal ends of the leg supports; two foot links connected to distal ends of the leg supports; a plurality of mechanical actuators configured to apply torques to the leg supports; and a controller to control the mechanical actuators, wherein the controller controls the mechanical actuators by estimating the appropriate forces to be applied at a region or point of the lower extremity enhancer in order to allow the user to walk relatively unencumbered while carrying a load. 10. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 9 wherein the controller processes joint variables, including joint angle and joint velocity, to calculate the appropriate forces to be applied by the mechanical actuators so the user is not encumbered by the enhancer's impedance. 11. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 9 wherein the controller processes joint variables, including joint angle and joint velocity, to calculate the appropriate forces to be applied by the mechanical actuators to reduce impedance of the lower extremity enhancer. 12. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 9 wherein the controller processes the forces applied by the ground on the foot links to calculate the appropriate forces to be applied by the mechanical actuators to reduce impedance of the lower extremity enhancer. 13. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 9 wherein the controller processes the forces applied by the user's feet on the foot links to calculate the appropriate forces to be applied by the mechanical actuators to reduce impedance of the lower extremity enhancer. 14. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 9 wherein the actuators cause the enhancer to track the motion of the user's lower extremities. 15. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 9 wherein the controller increases impedance of the lower extremity enhancer when the user approaches a motion that exceeds a safe boundary. 16. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 9 wherein the controller uses the position of the user's leg to determine the motion of the lower extremity enhancer. 17. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 9 wherein the one or more joints of the leg support are actuated passively during swing phase. 18. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 9 wherein the controller includes an interface for remote monitoring. 19. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 9 wherein the controller regulates the torque applied by the mechanical actuators. 20. The lower extremity enhancer of claim 9 wherein the back frame further includes a force/torque sensor and the controller processes the measured forces to calculate the appropriate forces to be applied by the mechanical actuators to reduce impedance of the lower extremity enhancer. 