A crystal forming device includes a base plate having a plurality of wells therein, each well adapted to receive a reservoir solution therein and each well having a bottom and a circumferential side wall connected With the bottom to define a chamber therein, the side wall having an upper circumferential edge defining an upper opening of the well; a single removable cover for covering all of the wells, the single removable cover having a lower surface which rests on the upper circumferential edges of the wells to seal the wells and to thereby seal the chambers, the cover having a plurality of circular beads formed on the lower surface thereof, the circular beads corresponding in position to the upper circumferential edges of the wells and the circular beads extending in surrounding relation to respective the upper circumferential edges when the cover is positioned on the base plate; and a silicon grease applied to the upper circumferential edges for sealing the lower surface of the single removable cover to each the well to define a plurality of sealed crystallization chambers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming macromolecular crystals, comprising the steps of: dispensing a reservoir solution in a plurality of wells formed in a base plate, with each well having a bottom and a circumferential side wall connected with said bottom to define a chamber therein, each said side wall having an upper circumferential edge defining an upper opening of the well through which the reservoir solution is dispensed; forming a plurality of droplets containing a macromolecular solution on a single cover, at positions in correspondence to said wells supplied with said reservoir solution; inverting said single cover such that said droplets remain substantially in the same positions on the single cover; and positioning said inverted single cover on said upper circumferential edges so as to seal said chambers, with each said droplet hanging in a suspended state over the reservoir solution in a respective well. 2. A method according to claim 1, further including the step of sealing the lower surface of said single removable cover means to each said well to thereby define a plurality of sealed chambers. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein said step of sealing includes the step of applying a sealing grease to the upper circumferential edge of each said well having said reservoir solution therein, prior to positioning said inverted single cover thereon. 4. A method according to claim 3, wherein said step of applying includes the step of applying a silicon grease to said upper circumferential edges. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein said cover has a plurality of circumferential beads formed on the lower surface thereof, said circumferential beads corresponding in position to the upper circumferential edges of said wells, and said step of forming includes the step of forming a plurality of droplets containing a macromolecular solution on the single cover, at positions within areas defined by said circumferential beads. 6. A method according to claim 5, wherein each said circumferential bead extends in surrounding relation to a respective said upper circumferential edge when said cover is positioned on said base plate. 