Method and system are provided for the automated assembly of parts such as plastic parts into assemblies wherein assembly pallets loaded with their corresponding assemblies are stored and vertically indexed in an accumulator station to allow a previously applied material such as an adhesive to cure. Consequently, the system takes up little floor space. Entrance, dispensing and assembly stations, together with the accumulator station each has an enclosed chamber which is pressurized with an ambient at subatmospheric pressure in order to evacuate the enclosed chambers so that fumes from the adhesive utilized in securing the parts together are not allowed to escape at the stations during assembly of the parts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for automated assembly of parts on an assembly pallet in an assembly area, the method utilizing an automatic dispenser movable relative to at least two control axes for dispensing material therefrom, the method comprising the steps of: (a) transferring an assembly pallet adapted to receive and retain a first part thereon to an entrance station and placing the first part on the assembly pallet at a predetermined position thereon; (b) transferring the assembly pallet loaded with the first part from the entrance station to a dispensing station and into a work envelope of the dispenser; (c) automatically moving the dispenser through a predetermined dispensing path relative to the at least two control axes while dispensing the material on the first part; (d) automatically controlling the dispenser so that flow of the material on the first part is controlled; (e) transferring the assembly pallet loaded with the first part from the dispensing station to an assembly station and assembling a second part on the first part with the material therebetween thereby forming an assembly on the assembly pallet; (f) transferring the assembly pallet loaded with the assembly from the assembly station to an accumulator station in a curing area for a predetermined period of time to allow the material to cure; and (g) transferring the assembly pallet loaded with the assembly from the curing area to an unload station for unloading the assembly from the assembly pallet after the material is cured and further comprising the step of stacking a plurality of assembly pallets loaded with their corresponding assemblies in a first predetermined spaced, non-contact stack at the accumulator station in the curing area. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the predetermined dispensing path is a continuous path and wherein steps (c) and (d) are performed substantially simultaneously so that a continuous bead of the material is dispensed. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of clamping the first and second parts together in the curing area. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the unload station is coincident with the entrance station. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of automatically monitoring and coordinating operation of the dispenser with the transferring of the assembly pallet to and from the dispensing station to control the flow of parts and material in the assembly area. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the assembly pallet is transferred along a loop-shaped guide path, each of the stations being located along the guide path. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the assembly pallet is transferred along a guide path by a transfer mechanism and by means for selectively controlling movement of the transfer mechanism to permit the assembly pallet to stop at selected ones of the stations. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of stacking includes the step of vertically indexing at least one assembly pallet loaded with its corresponding assembly in the accumulator station in preparation for receiving another assembly pallet loaded with its corresponding assembly. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 8 further comprising the step of stacking a second plurality of assembly pallets loaded with their corresponding assemblies in a second predetermined spaced, non-contact stack at the accumulator station in the curing area. 10. The method as claimed in claim 9 wherein the step of stacking the second plurality of assembly pallets includes the step of vertically indexing at least one assembly pallet loaded with its corresponding assembly in the accumulator station in preparation for receiving another assembly pallet loaded with its corresponding assembly at the accumulator station. 11. The method as claimed in claim 9 further comprising the step of horizontally moving each assembly pallet between the first and second stacks at the accumulator station. 12. A method for automated assembly of parts on an assembly pallet in an assembly area, the method utilizing an automatic dispenser movable relative to at least two control axes for dispensing material therefrom, the method comprising the steps of: (a) transfering an assembly pallet adapted to receive and retain a first part thereon to an entrance station and placing the first part on the assembly pallet at a predetermined position thereon; (b) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the first part from the entrance station to a dispensing station and into a work envelope of the dispenser; (c) automatically moving the dispenser through a predetermined dispensing path relative to the at least two control axes while dispensing the material on the first part; (d) automatically controlling the dispenser so that flow of the material on the first part is controlled; (e) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the first part from the dispensing station to an assembly station and assembling a second part on the first part with the material therebetween thereby forming an assembly on the assembly on the assembly pallet; (f) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the assembly from the assembly station to an accumulator station in a curing area for a predetermined period of time to allow the material to cure, wherein said material is an adhesive and each of the entrance, dispensing and assembling stations has an enclosed chamber; (g) pressurizing each of said entrance, dispensing and assembly stations at subatmospheric pressure; and (h) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the assembly from the curing area to an unload station for unloading the assembly from the assembly pallet after the material is cured. 13. The method as claimed in claim 12 further comprising the step of communicating the entrance and dispensing chambers so that the subatmospheric pressure is maintained during step (b). 14. The method as claimed in claim 12 or claim 14 further comprising the step of communicating the dispensing and assembly chambers so that the subatmospheric pressure is maintained during step (e). 15. A method for automated assembly of parts on an assembly pallet in an assembly area, the method utilizing an automatic dispenser movable relative to at least two control axes for dispensing material therefrom, the method comprising the steps of: (a) transfering an assembly pallet adapted to receive and retain a first part thereon to an entrance station and placing the first part on the assembly pallet at a predetermined position thereon; (b) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the first part from the entrance station to a dispensing station and into a work envelope of the dispenser; (c) automatically moving the dispenser through a predetermined dispensing path relative to the at least two control axes while dispensing the material on the first part; (d) automatically controlling the dispenser so that flow of the material on the first part is controlled; (e) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the first part from the dispensing station to an assembly station and assembling a second part on the first part with the material therebetween thereby forming an assembly on the assembly on the assembly pallet; (f) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the assembly from the assembly station to an accumulator station in a curing area for a predetermined period of time to allow the material to cure, wherein said material is an adhesive and each of the entrance, dispensing, assembling and accumulator stations has an enclosed chamber; (g) pressurizing each of said entrance, dispensing, assembly and accumulator stations at subatmospheric pressure; and (f) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the assembly from the curing area to an unload station for unloading the assembly from the assembly pallet after the material is cured. 16. The method as claimed in claim 15 further comprising the step of communicating the assembly and accumulator chambers so that the subatmospheric pressure is maintained during step (f). 17. A method for automated assembly of parts on an assembly pallet in an assembly area, the method utilizing an automatic dispenser movable relative to at least two control axes for dispensing material therefrom, the method comprising the steps of: (a) transfering an assembly pallet adapted to receive and retain a first part thereon to an entrance station and placing the first part on the assembly pallet at a predetermined positions thereon; (b) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the first part from the entrance station to a dispensing station and into a work envelope of the dispenser; (c) automatically moving the dispenser through a predetermined dispensing path relative to the at least two control axes while dispensing the material on the first part; (d) automatically controlling the dispenser so that flow of the material on the first part is controlled; (e) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the first part from the dispensing station to an assembly station and assembling a second part on the first part with the material therebetween thereby forming an assembly on the assembly on the assembly pallet; (f) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the assembly from the assembly station to an accumulator station in a curing area for a predetermined period of time to allow the material to cure, wherein said material is an adhesive and each of the entrance, dispensing, assembly, accumulator and unload stations has an enclosed chamber; (g) pressurizing each of said entrance, dispensing, assembly, accumulator and unload stations at a subatmospheric pressure; and (h) transfering the assembly pallet loaded with the assembly from the curing area to an unload station for unloading the assembly from the assembly pallet after the material is cured. 18. The method as claimed in claim 17 further comprising the steps of: communicating the entrance and dispensing chambers so that the subatmospheric pressure is maintained during step (b); communicating the dispensing and assembly chambers sot hat the subatmospheric pressure is maintained during step (e); communicating the assembly and accumulator chambers so that the subatmospheric pressure is maintained during step (f); and communicating the accumulator and unload chambers so that the subatmospheric pressure is maintained during step (g). 