This invention relates to improvements in foundry procedures, particularly in-process and post process inspection with electro-optical sensor units. Principally addressed are: inspection of molds and cores to assure correctness and control procedures to abort pouring if the molds are not correct, inspection of cores on the core line, inspection of patterns for sticking sand, inspection of finished castings for extraneous material in passages, excessive or inadequate stock, correct locator relationships, etc., and control of robotic flash grinders. Both fixed and programmably moveable sensors are shown in the context of these embodiments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a continuous casting process, a method for automatically inspecting cores and molds, said method comprising: providing an inspection station along the path of travel of the core or mold at the location at which the material to be cast is poured, illuminating a core or mold with light from a light source located at said inspection station, detecting light from the core or mold with an electrooptical detector to determine a dimension of or defect in the core or mold, and controlling pouring of the material to be cast in accordance with the analyzing step such that pouring of said material into a mold or core being inspected at the inspection station is aborted when that core or mold is determined to be incorrect. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said source is repositioned to inspect different positions of the core or mold. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said detector is repositioned to inspect different positions of the core or mold. 4. A method according to claim 2 wherein said repositioning is programmable to inspect various parts or various portions of similar parts. 5. A method according to claim 3 wherein said repositioning is programmable to move the detector out of the way of moving parts. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein a sand core or mold is inspected and wherein a substantial angle is provided between said light source and said detector so as to highlight features of the sand core or sand mold. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein a plurality of light sources and detectors are utilized. 8. A method according to claim 7 wherein each of said light sources is activated in a predetermined sequence. 9. A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said light source is pulsed to freeze the movement between the core or mold with respect to said detector. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein said detector comprises an image scanner and wherein said image scanner scans at least a portion of an image of the core or mold. 11. A method as claimed in claim 10 wherein said image scanner comprises a linear array camera and said core or mold is moved on a conveyor. 12. A method according to claim 1 wherein said source includes a light transmitting window and wherein a shutter or air blow off is provided to keep the light transmitting window clean. 13. A method according to claim 1 wherein a pattern of a said mold is inspected and the presence of stickers and other irregularities is determined from said analyzing step. 14. In a continuous in line testing process, a method for automatically inspecting cores and molds, said method comprising: providing an inspection station in the line at a location along a predetermined path of movement of a plurality of cores or molds, illuminating a core or mold with light from a light source located at said inspection station, detecting light from the core or mold with an electro-optical detector located at said inspection station, automatically analyzing the output of said electro-optical detector to determine a dimension of or defect in the core or mold, and removing the core or mold being inspected from the line when that core or mold is determined to be incorrect by the analyzing step. 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein the core or mold which is removed is replaced in the line by a further core or mold. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein a signal is produced to provide automatic cleaning of said pattern. 17. A method according to claim 14 wherein the core or mold which is removed is repaired and returned to the line. 18. A method of claimed in claim 14 wherein said source is repositioned to inspect different portions of the core or mold. 19. A method according to claim 14 wherein said detector is repositioned to inspect different portions of said core or mold. 20. A method for programmably and automatically determining physical characteristics of objects, said method comprising the steps of illuminating an object with a light source positioned by a first robot or other automaton, electro-optically detecting light from said object with a light detector located on a second robot or other automoton; and by analysis of the signal from said light detector determining physical characteristics of said object. 21. A method according to claim 20 wherein said physical characteristic is dimension surface defects. 22. A method according to claim 20 wherein said light source is positioned at a predetermined angle chosen to produce a detected signal having maximum contrast or amplitude. 23. A method according to claim 20 wherein said physical characteristic is blockage of a passage in the object. 