A method for correct and efficient detection of clearances between three-dimensional bodies in computer-based simulations, where one or both of the volumes is subject to translation and/or rotations. The method conservatively determines of the size of such clearances and whether there is a collision between the bodies. Given two bodies, each of which is undergoing separate motions, the method utilizes bounding-volume hierarchy representations for the two bodies and, mappings and inverse mappings for the motions of the two bodies. The method uses the representations, mappings and direction vectors to determine the directionally furthest locations of points on the convex hulls of the volumes virtually swept by the bodies and hence the clearance between the bodies, without having to calculate the convex hulls of the bodies. The method includes clearance detection for bodies comprising convex geometrical primitives and more specific techniques for bodies comprising convex polyhedra.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method practiced on a computer for clearance detection that maps motions of a first body and a second body, for detecting a clearance between the first body and the second body, wherein the first body undergoes a first motion and the second body undergoes a second motion, the method comprising the steps of: providing a first bounding volume hierarchy (BVH) representation for the first body and a second BVH representation for the second body; providing a first time-dependent mapping representative of the first motion, the first time-dependent mapping having a first inverse mapping and, providing a second time-dependent mapping representative of the second motion, the second time-dependent mapping having a second inverse mapping; performing a hierarchical minimum-distance search with respect to a first volume virtually swept by the first BVH representation of the first body undergoing the first motion and a second volume virtually swept by the second BVH representation of the second body undergoing the second motion, the hierarchical minimum distance search comprising, applying the first inverse mapping to a first direction vector and applying the first time-dependent mapping to a first node in the first BVH representation to determine a first directionally furthest location on a first node swept volume, the first node-swept volume virtually swept by the first node in the first BVH representation of the first body undergoing the first motion and, applying the second inverse mapping to a second direction vector and applying the second time-dependent mapping to a second node in the second BVH representation to determine a second directionally furthest location on a second node-swept volume, the second node-swept volume virtually swept by the second node in the second BVH representation of the second body undergoing the second motion; detecting the clearance between the first body and the second body; and, providing the result of detecting the clearance between the first body and the second body to a user, to allow the user to perform one or more tasks selected from planning a motion for at least one of the first body and the second body, detecting a collision between the first body and the second body and, detecting a collision between an obstacle and at least one of the first body and the second body. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of determining a size of the clearance. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein: the first motion comprises a first translation concurrent with a first rotation; and, the second motion comprises a second translation concurrent with a second rotation. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein: the first motion comprises a first translation; and, the second motion comprises a second translation. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein: the first motion comprises a first rotation; and, the second motion comprises a second rotation. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein: the first motion comprises a rotation; and, the second motion comprises a translation. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the first BVH representation of the first body comprises a first tree of nodes, the first tree of nodes comprising convex geometric primitives, the first node selected from the first tree of nodes and, the first node comprising a first geometric primitive. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the second BVH representation of the second body comprises a second tree of nodes, each node of the second tree of nodes being a convex geometric primitive, the second node selected from the second tree of nodes and, the second node comprising a second geometric primitive. 9. The method of claim 2 wherein the first BVH representation of the first body comprises a first tree of nodes, each node of the first tree of nodes being a convex geometric primitive, the first node selected from the first tree of nodes and, the first node comprising a first geometric primitive. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the second BVH representation of the second body comprises a second tree of nodes, each node of the second tree of nodes being a convex geometric primitive, the second node selected from the second tree of nodes and, the second node comprising a second geometric primitive. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: detecting a collision. 12. The method of claim 7 wherein one or more of the convex geometric primitives comprising the first tree of nodes comprises a convex polyhedron, the method additionally comprising the steps of: determining the directionally furthest point of a volume virtually swept by the polyhedron by determining a directionally furthest vertex on the polyhedron with respect to the first direction vector under the first inverse mapping; and, determining a transition of the directionally furthest vertex to an edge adjacent vertex on the polyhedron relative to the first direction vector under the first inverse mapping. 13. The method of claim 8 wherein one or more of the convex geometric primitives of the second tree of nodes comprises a convex polyhedron, the method additionally comprising the steps of: determining the directionally furthest point of a volume virtually swept by the polyhedron by determining a directionally furthest vertex on the polyhedron with respect to the second direction vector under the second inverse mapping; and, determining a transition of the directionally furthest vertex to an edge-adjacent vertex on the polyhedron relative to the second direction vector under the second inverse mapping. 14. A non-transitory computer readable medium tangibly embodying at least one set of instructions for clearance detection that maps motions of a first body and a second body for detecting a clearance between the first body and the second body, wherein the first body undergoes a first motion and the second body undergoes a second motion, the at least one set of instructions for performing the steps of: receiving a first boundary volume hierarchy (BVH) representation for the first body and a second BVH representation for the second body; receiving a first time-dependent mapping representative of the first motion, the first time-dependent mapping having a first inverse mapping and, receiving a second time-dependent mapping of the second motion, the second time dependent mapping having a second inverse mapping; performing a hierarchical minimum-distance search with respect to a first volume virtually swept by the first BVH representation of the first body undergoing the first motion and a second volume virtually swept by the second BVH representation of the second body undergoing the second motion, the hierarchical minimum distance search comprising, applying the first inverse mapping to a first direction vector and applying the first time-dependent mapping to a first node in the first BVH representation to determine a first directionally furthest location on a first node swept volume, the first node-swept volume virtually swept by the first node in the first BVH representation of the first body undergoing the first motion and, applying the second inverse mapping to a second direction vector and applying the second time-dependent mapping to a second node in the second BVH representation to determine a second directionally furthest location on a second node-swept volume, the second node-swept volume virtually swept by the second node in the second BVH representation of the second body undergoing the second motion; detecting the clearance between the first body and the second body and, providing the result of detecting the clearance between the first body and the second body to a user, to allow the user to perform one or more tasks selected from planning a motion for at least one of the first body and the second body, detecting a collision between the first body and the second body and, detecting a collision between an obstacle and at least one of the first body and the second body. 