A docking and locking system for a pallet in a robot system using pallets which are moved into an approximate work position within the work envelope of the robot. A linear motor is fixedly mounted to the robot frame and positions an elongated bar which carries a stud which is moved upwards into a socket by the bar motion. The socket is an integral part of a stud bolt which is adjustably mounted to the extruded section of a pallet. During the upwards movement of the stud, the chamfered section of the stud first interacts with the lower inner edge of the socket and then with the tapered section of the socket, so that the pallet is positioned in a horizontal, exactly defined position. Upon further movement the stud lifts the pallet and presses its extruded section against the guide rail, which is fixedly mounted to the frame, so that the pallet is positioned in a vertical, exactly defined position and simultaneously further docking apparatus, such as electric connectors and hydraulic and/or pneumatic couplings, located on the bar cooperate with corresponding docking apparatus on the pallet.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A docking and locking apparatus for a pallet which has been moved into an approximate work position in a robot or like system characterized by: a robot frame, a guide rail fixedly mounted to said robot frame, a linear motor fixedly mounted to said robot frame, an elongated bar fastened to the movable part of said linear motor, a stud means and docking means fixedly mounted to the top surface of said bar, a pallet, extruded sections forming opposite sides of said pallet, a socket, a stud bolt, said socket forming an integral part of said stud bolt which is adjustably mounted to said extruded section of said pallet, said socket cooperating with said stud means when said stud means is moved upwards by said linear motor in order to position the pallet in a horizontal, exactly defined position, and upwardly move said pallet against the bottom of said guide rail to position the pallet in an exactly defined vertical position and to lock the pallet in the exactly defined positions, and further docking means located on said extruded section of said pallet for mating with said docking means simultaneously with the vertical positioning of said stud means when said elongated bar is moved vertically by said linear motor, said docking means including an electrical connector and a fluid coupling both having first and second parts. 2. The system according to claim 1 characterized in that said stud means has a cylindrical shape and in that said socket has an inner diameter which is slightly greater than the diameter of said stud means. 3. The system according to claim 2 characterized in that said stud means is provided with a chamfered section and said socket is provided with a tapered section, said chamfered section of said stud means cooperating with said tapered section of said socket to laterally position the pallet. 4. The system according to claim 1 characterized in that said stud bolt is laterally and vertically adjustable. 5. The system according to claim 1 characterized in that, said first part of said electrical connector is attached to the top surface of said bar for cooperation with said second part of said electrical connector which is fixedly mounted to the pallet. 6. The system according to claim 1 characterized in that, said first part of said fluid coupling is attached to the top surface of said bar for cooperation with said second part of said fluid coupling, said second part of said fluid coupling being resilienlty mounted to the pallet. 