Method and apparatus for synthesizing biopolymers, such as polypeptides and polynucleotides. The apparatus includes plural reaction vessels in which subunit coupling to biopolymers in a particle suspension is carried out. The vessels are connected to common valving structure for use in mixing the suspension and removing suspension liquid. In one embodiment, a robotic arm in the apparatus is operable to transfer reaction solution to the reaction vessels, and to transfer particle suspensions from the reaction vessels to a mixing vessel and back to the reaction vessels. The method can be used to produce preferably equi-molar amounts of different-sequence biopolymers, such as polypeptides and polynucleotides.
Claims It is claimed: 1. Apparatus for use in synthesizing different-sequence biopolymers by sequential addition of biopolymer subunits to immobilized subunits carried on solid phase particles in a particle suspension, said apparatus comprising, in operative condition, (a) a mixing vessel, (b) multiple reaction vessels, (c) reagent vessels, (d) transfer means for distributing a selected volume of particle suspension in the mixing vessel to each of the reaction vessels, for transferring a particle suspension from each reaction vessel to the mixing vessel, and for transferring selected reagents from the reagent vessels to the reaction vessels, (e) means for coupling a selected free subunit to the terminal, particle bound subunits in each of the reaction vessels, and (f) control means for controlling the transfer means and coupling means for (1) distributing a mixed particle suspension in the mixing vessel to selected reaction vessels, (2) coupling a selected subunit to terminal particle-bound subunits in each reaction vessels, and (3) transferring the particle suspensions in the reaction vessels to the mixing vessel. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, for use in combination with a vacuum source, wherein each of said reaction vessels has a filter which defines a lower vessel surface which is adapted to retain the solid phase of such particle suspension when a vacuum is applied to the filter, and said coupling means includes valve means connecting the filter in each of said vessels to such vacuum source, positionable between a closed position, in which the vessels are isolated from the vacuum source, and an open position in which the valve means communicates the vessels in the set with the vacuum source, and said control means is operable to activate the valve means from its closed to its open positions. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, for use in combination with a source of compressed gas, wherein said valve means also connects each reaction vessel filter with such compressed-gas source, and is positionable to a second open position at which the valve means communicates each reaction vessel with the compressed-gas source, to produce mixing by bubbling within the vessels, and said control means is operable to activate the valve means to its second open position. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said reaction vessels include multiple sets of vessels, and said valve means includes, for each such set, a solenoid valve connecting the vessels in each set to such vacuum and gas sources. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, which further includes a set of vessels which are each connected to the vacuum and gas sources by individual solenoid valves, such that any selected number of vessels in the apparatus can be operated in a mode in which they are connected to valves which can be operated in such open positions, and the remaining vessels in the apparatus are connected to valves which can be operated exclusively in closed positions. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the valve means additionally includes, for each set of vessels, a manifold connected to said valve and a plurality of tubes connecting the manifold to each vessel in the set, where the tubes extend above a maximum level in the vessels which is reached when liquid is added to the vessels during operation of the apparatus in polymer preparation. 