A light weight servo controlled robot gripper is disclosed. A plastic body houses one or more threaded drive shafts which are powered by a direct current motor. Attached to the shafts are finger mounting blocks which support removable fingers and which can be driven both closer to and further away from a fixed point by the motor. Integral with at least one mounting block is a force transducer which monitors the load exerted on the finger through a pivot and lever action of a mounting bracket provided adjacent to the load cell. Since the transducer is in the block rather than the fingertip, fingers are readily interchangable without reinstrumentation. A limit switch, located above one of the finger mounting blocks, is used to determine coarse finger position, and an optical shaft encoder provides precise position information allowing the gripper to be utilized for a variety of position as well as force servoing tasks.
Claims We claim: 1. A gripper for robots and the like comprising: (a) a body; (b) mounting block means attached to the body allowing radial motion thereof relative to a fixed point; (c) means for moving said mounting block means in a straight line towards and away from said fixed point; (d) a removable finger; (e) finger mounting means attaching the finger to the mounting block means; and (f) load sensing means associated with the mounting block means and finger mounting means to detect the relative magnitude of a load applied to the finger wherein said finger mounting means is a bracket pivotally mounted to said mounting block means for transmitting and mechanically amplifying a load applied on said finger to the load sensing means which is a force transducer positioned between said bracket and said mounting block means. 2. A gripper according to claim 1 wherein said load sensing means is removable. 3. A gripper for robots and the like comprising: (a) a body; (b) a motor attached to the body and having a rotatable motor drive shaft associated therewith; (c) coupling means attached to said motor drive shaft; (d) at least one threaded drive shaft mounted to the body for rotation, said threaded shaft extending radially outwardly from and operatively connected to said coupling means so that rotation of the motor drive shaft causes rotation of the threaded shaft; (e) mounting block means attached to each threaded drive shaft so that rotation of the motor drive shaft in one direction causes said mounting block means to move in a straight line toward a fixed point and rotation of the motor drive shaft in an opposite direction causes the block means to move in like manner away from said fixed point; (f) a removable finger attached to each finger mounting block means by suitable finger mounting means; and; (g) position sensing means attached to said body to detect the relative position of the fingers wherein said position sensing means is an incremental type shaft encoder attached to said body and having an encoder shaft associated therewith, said encoder shaft connected to said coupling means for rotation at a velocity responsive to the velocity of said motor shaft. 4. A gripper according to claim 3 wherein said position sensing means also has a calibrating means associated therewith comprising an infra red sensor positioned on said body so that when a finger mounting block means passes in close proximity thereto, infra red radiation provided by the sensor is reflected off said mounting block means and detected by said sensor. 5. A gripper according to claim 3 further comprising load sensing means associated with the mounting block means and finger mounting means to detect the relative magnitude of a load applied to the finger. 6. A gripper according to claim 5 wherein said load sensing means is removable. 7. A gripper for robots and the like comprising: (a) a body; (b) a pair of mounting blocks attached to the body allowing linear motion thereof along a single axis of closure; (c) means for moving said mounting blocks linearly towards each other and for moving said mounting blocks likewise further away from each other along said axis of closure; (d) a removable finger attached to each mounting block by suitable finger mounting means; and (e) load sensing means associated with at least one block of said pair of mounting blocks and with said finger mounting means to detect the relative magnitude of a load applied to a finger attached to said at least one mounting block along said axis of closure wherein said finger mounting means is a bracket pivotally mounted to said at least one mounting block for transmitting and mechanically amplifying a load applied on said finger to the load sensing means which is a pressure transducing load cell positioned between said bracket and said at least one mounting block. 8. A gripper according to claim 7 wherein said load sensing means is removable. 9. A gripper for robots and the like comprising: (a) a body; (b) a motor attached to the body and having a rotatable motor drive shaft associated therewith; (c) coupling means attached to said motor drive shaft; (d) a pair of threaded drive shafts mounted to the body for rotation, said threaded shafts extending in opposite directions from and operatively connected to said coupling means so that rotation of the motor drive shaft causes rotation of the threaded shafts in opposite directions; (e) a mounting block attached to each threaded drive shaft so that rotation of the motor drive shaft in one direction causes the mounting blocks to move linearly toward each other along an axis of closure and rotation of the motor drive shaft in an opposite direction causes the mounting blocks to move in like manner linearly away from each other; (f) a removable finger attached to each mounting block by suitable finger mounting means; and (g) position sensing means attached to said body to detect the relative position of the fingers wherein said position sensing means is an incremental type shaft encoder attached to said body and having an encoder shaft associated therewith, said encoder shaft connected to said coupling means for rotation at a velocity responsive to the velocity of said motor shaft. 10. A gripper according to claim 9 wherein said position sensing means also has a calibrating means associated therewith comprising an infra red sensor positioned on said body so that when a finger mounting block passes in close proximity thereto, infra red radiation provided by the sensor is reflected off said mounting block and detected by said sensor. 11. A gripper according to claim 9 further comprising load sensing means associated with the mounting block means and finger mounting means to detect the relative magnitude of a load applied to the finger. 12. A gripper according to claim 11 wherein said load sensing means is removable. 