A conveyor-stack test system has motherboards that test memory modules. The motherboards are not stationary but are placed inside movable trays that move along conveyors. A loader-unloader removes tested memory modules from test sockets on the motherboards and inserts untested memory modules into the motherboards using a robotic arm. A conveyor carries the motherboards from the loader-unloader to an elevator. The elevator raises or lowers the motherboards to different levels in a conveyor stack with multiple levels of conveyors each with many test stations. The motherboards move along conveyors in the conveyor stack until reaching test stations. A retractable connector from the test station extends to make contact with a motherboard connector to power up the motherboard, which then tests the memory modules. Test results are communicated from the test station to a host controller, which instructs the loader-unloader to sort the tested memory modules once the motherboard returns.
Claims We claim: 1. A parallel test system for testing memory modules on movable motherboards comprising: a plurality of motherboards, each motherboard in the plurality of motherboards being a main board for a computer using memory modules as a memory; test sockets on the plurality of motherboards, the test sockets for receiving memory modules for testing; a loader-unloader for inserting memory modules into test sockets on motherboards in the plurality of motherboards when the motherboards are at a loading station; a plurality of test stations, for connecting to motherboards in the plurality of motherboards and for activating the motherboards to test the memory modules inserted into the test sockets on the motherboards; and a conveyor for moving the plurality of motherboards from the loading station to the plurality of test stations, and for moving the plurality of motherboards from the plurality of test stations to the loading station after testing by the plurality of test stations, whereby the memory modules are inserted into motherboards that are moved by the conveyor to the plurality of test stations for testing, and wherein the conveyor moves motherboards back to the loading station after testing. 2. The parallel test system of claim 1 further comprising: movable trays that are placed on the conveyor, each movable tray for holding a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards, each movable tray moving along the conveyor to transport the motherboard from the loading station to a test station in the plurality of test stations, and to return the motherboard to the loading station after testing. 3. The parallel test system of claim 2 wherein the movable trays electrically insulate the plurality of motherboards from the conveyor during testing by the plurality of test stations. 4. The parallel test system of claim 1 further comprising: test adaptor boards, each coupled to a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards, the test adaptor boards having the test sockets for receiving memory modules for testing by the motherboards, each test adaptor board for electrically connecting a memory module inserted into the test socket to a motherboard attached to the test adaptor board, the motherboard using the memory module inserted into the test socket as a portion of the memory of the motherboard. 5. The parallel test system of claim 4 wherein the motherboards have a component side and a solder side, the component side having integrated circuits mounted thereon; wherein the test adaptor boards are mounted to the solder side of the motherboards. 6. The parallel test system of claim 1 further comprising a main system interface, coupled to the plurality of test stations, for commanding test stations in the plurality of test stations to apply power to activate motherboards to test memory modules inserted into the test sockets and for receiving test results from the motherboards, wherein the main system interface instructs the loader-unloader to sort memory modules based on the test results; wherein the main system interface stores the test results while the motherboard is being returned from the test station to the loader-unloader after testing by the test station. 7. The parallel test system of claim 6 wherein the loader-unloader further comprises: a robotic arm, responsive to commands from the main system interface, for inserting memory modules into the test sockets on motherboards. 8. The parallel test system of claim 1 wherein the conveyor further comprises: a conveyor stack having multiple levels of conveyor lines, wherein each conveyor line has a plurality of test stations; an elevator for raising and lowering a motherboard to the multiple levels of conveyor lines; and an input conveyor line between the loading station and the elevator. 9. The parallel test system of claim 2 wherein the conveyor further comprises: a plurality of conveyor stacks, each conveyor stack having multiple levels of conveyor lines, wherein each conveyor line has a plurality of test stations; an elevator for raising and lowering a motherboard to the multiple levels of conveyor lines; and an input conveyor line between the loading station and the elevator. 10. The parallel test system of claim 9 further comprising a plurality of elevators each for raising and lowering a motherboard to the multiple levels of conveyor lines in a conveyor stack in the plurality of conveyor stacks; and a rotator for diverting a motherboard from the input conveyor line to a selected elevator in the plurality of elevators. 11. The parallel test system of claim 2 wherein each test station in the plurality of test stations further comprises: a retractable connector for retracting to allow motherboards on the conveyor to pass by the test station, and for extending to make electrical contact with a motherboard connector on a motherboard. 12. The parallel test system of claim 11 wherein each test station in the plurality of test stations further comprises: a stopper for extending over the conveyor to stop the motherboard from moving past the test station during testing, and for retracting to allow the motherboard to be moved by the conveyor after testing is completed. 13. A moving-motherboard memory-module tester comprising: a plurality of motherboards for a personal computer, a motherboard in the plurality of motherboards for executing a test program to test a memory module inserted into a test socket on the motherboard; a Module-Under-Test (MUT) loader-unloader having a robotic device that removes a tested memory module from the test socket on the motherboard, and that inserts a memory module into the test socket on the motherboard when the motherboard is located at the MUT loader-unloader; an input conveyor that moves the motherboard away from the MUT loader-unloader after the memory module has been inserted into the test socket; a input elevator that receives the motherboard from the input conveyor, and raises or lowers the motherboard to a selected level in a plurality of levels; a conveyor stack having a plurality of levels, each level having a testing conveyor that receives motherboards from the input elevator; a plurality of test stations along each testing conveyor, each test station having a retractable connector that connects to a motherboard connector on the motherboard, the retractable connector applying power to the motherboard to activate the motherboard to test the memory module in the test socket; a network connection to the plurality of test stations for communicating test results from the plurality of test stations testing the plurality of motherboards, wherein the test results control the MUT loader-unloader to sort memory modules when the robotic device removes the tested memory modules, wherein test results indicating that the memory module failed testing are sorted into a failed group of memory modules while test results indicating that the memory module passed testing are sorted into a passing group of memory modules by the robotic device; an output conveyor that moves the motherboard toward the MUT loader-unloader after the memory module has been tested by one of the plurality of test stations; and an output elevator that receives the motherboard from the testing conveyor for the selected level in the plurality of levels of the conveyor stack and lowers or raises the motherboard to a level of the output conveyor, whereby memory modules are transported from the MUT loader-unloader to the plurality of test stations by conveyors that move the plurality of motherboards between test stations and the MUT loader-unloader. 14. The moving-motherboard memory-module tester of claim 13 further comprising: a plurality of movable trays that carry the plurality of motherboards along the input conveyor, the testing conveyor, and the output conveyor, whereby motherboards are carried by the plurality of movable trays. 15. The moving-motherboard memory-module tester of claim 14 further comprising: a test adaptor board mounted to each motherboard, wherein the test socket is mounted on the test adaptor board, the test socket for receiving a memory module inserted by the robotic device. 16. The moving-motherboard memory-module tester of claim 14 wherein each testing conveyor passes along at least three test stations, wherein at least three motherboards are tested in parallel by each testing conveyor; wherein the conveyor stack comprises at least three levels; wherein the conveyor stack comprises at least three testing conveyors in a level; wherein the conveyor stack tests at least nine motherboards in parallel. 17. The moving-motherboard memory-module tester of claim 16 wherein testing conveyors in a conveyor stack are located vertically above each other, whereby floor space is minimized. 18. The moving-motherboard memory-module tester of claim 13 wherein each test station further comprises: a retractable connector that retracts to allow motherboards to pass by on the testing conveyor, and that extends to make contact with a motherboard connector on the motherboard; wherein power is applied through the retractable connector and the motherboard connector by the test station when testing the memory module on the motherboard. 19. A multiple-motherboard conveying memory tester comprising: host system means for controlling testing of memory modules on multiple motherboards and for controlling movement of motherboards by conveyors; test socket means for receiving a memory module for testing; conveyed motherboard means, controlled by the host system means, for executing a test program on a memory module inserted into the test socket means; test adaptor board means, mounted on the conveyed motherboard means, for electrically connecting the test socket means to a memory bus means on the conveyed motherboard means; wherein the multiple-motherboard conveying memory tester has a plurality of the conveyed motherboard means, each conveyed motherboard means having an attached test adaptor board means with a test socket means, each conveyed motherboard means for executing the test program on a different memory module in parallel with other motherboard means; robotic means, controlled by the host system means, for grasping a memory module and inserting the memory module into the test socket means, the robotic means also for grasping and removing the memory module from the test socket means after completion of the test program, and moving the memory module to an output means for storing tested memory modules when the conveyed motherboard means indicates to the host system means that the memory module has passed the test program, test station means for applying power to the conveyed motherboard means to activate the conveyed motherboard means to test the memory module inserted into the test socket means; and conveying means, coupled between a loading station that is accessible by the robotic means, and a testing conveyor having a plurality of the test stations means, wherein the testing conveyor is not accessible by the robotic means, for moving the conveyed motherboard means from the loading station to the testing conveyor before testing, and for moving the conveyed motherboard means from the testing conveyor to the loading station after testing, whereby motherboards are moved from the loading station to the testing conveyor before testing, and moved from the testing conveyor back to the loading station after testing. 20. The multiple-motherboard conveying memory tester of claim 19 wherein the conveying means further comprises: a plurality of levels, each level having a testing conveyor and a plurality of test station means; and elevator means for elevating the conveyed motherboard means to a selected level in the plurality of levels, whereby multiple levels of the test station means are accessed by the elevator means. 