A robotic handling system is described that includes a support column aligned along a vertically aligned Z axis with a dual-wand assembly rotatably mounted atop the support column and defining a `reach` or R axis. Drive motor/encoder assemblies are mounted adjacent the support column for raising or lowering the dual-wand assembly along the Z axis and mounted within the support column for slewing the dual-wand assembly to any selected .theta. angle within the range of operation under the control of a stored program processor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a robotic handling system for transferring semiconductor wafers from one position to another, the combination comprising: wand assembly means having first and second end effectors mounted thereon for individual guided movement along the same axis, which wand assembly means comprises: a mounting plate having first and second guideways thereon extending parallel to said axis; first and second carriers in sliding engagement with respective ones of said first and second guideways, said first and second end effectors being connected, respectively, to said first and second carriers and each of said end effectors comprising a first portion aligned parallel to and spaced from the first-mentioned axis, an end portion extending along the first-mentioned axis, and an intermediate portion extending between said first and end portions; first drive means for separately driving said first and second end effectors to extend or retract said first end effector with respect to a first direction along said axis and to extend or retract said second end effector with respect to a second direction along said axis; said drive means comprising for each of said carriers, a flexible and elongated power transmitting driver connected respectively between first and second rotatable following and driving pulleys, said driving pulley being connected to a drive motor through a third pulley and a second driver connected between said drive motor and at least one of said first and second-mentioned pulleys; and second drive means for rotating said wand assembly means about a second axis which is generally perpendicular to the first-mentioned axis. 2. The robotic handling system of claim 1, wherein each of said guideways comprises an elongated parallelpiped having its long axis aligned parallel to the first-mentioned axis. 3. The robotic handling system of claim 1, wherein said first drive means comprises for each of said end effectors, an electric motor providing drive power and an encoder for providing encoded signal information representative of the relative position of said effector along said first-mentioned axis. 4. The robotic handling system of claim 3, further comprising: stored-program controlled processor means for controlling each of said motors responsive, in part, to the encoded signal information. 