A robotic hand controls movement of a workpiece relative to three longitudinal axes in response to three control signals and relative to mutually perpendicular rotational axes .alpha. and .beta. in response to two control signals. Two C-shaped holders carry two motors having mutually perpendicular rotating shafts. Each holder includes two parallel flanges connected together by a web. The first motor is mounted on the first holder so its shaft extends between the first holder flanges. A second holder flange is mounted on the first motor shaft between the first holder flanges. The second motor is mounted on the second holder other flange. A carrier for the first holder responds to three of the signals which control movement of the first holder relative to the longitudinal axes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic hand for controlling movement of a workpiece relative to multiple axes, said robotic hand comprising: a vertical pole on a plate movable in X and Y axial directions in a horizontal plane; a horizontal bar mounted on and extending at a right angle from said vertical pole to be movable in a Z axis direction that is at a right angle to the horizontal plane, the horizontal bar fixedly carrying a first C-shaped motor holder on one end thereof, the first holder including upper and lower horizontal flanges connected together by a first web; a first stepping motor having a first rotatable output shaft controlled by an .alpha. axis controller, the first motor being carried by the upper flange of the first motor holder so the first output shaft rotates about an axis extending parallel to the vertical pole between surfaces of the upper and lower flanges of the first holder; a second stepping motor having a second rotatable output shaft controlled by a .beta. axis controller; a second c-shaped motor holder having upper and lower horizontal flanges connected together by a second web, the upper flange of the second motor holder being fixedly mounted on the first shaft between the upper and lower flanges of the first holder, the first shaft being disposed between the first and second webs, the second motor being mounted on the lower flange of the second motor holder so the second shaft rotates about an axis extending parallel to the horizontal bar; and a support fixed on one end of a shaft of the second stepping motor for carrying the workpiece. 2. The robotic hand of claim 1 in combination with a control system therefor, the control system including: first, second and third servomotors having output shafts for respectively controlling movement of the plate and bar in the X, Y and Z axes, and first and second controllers for respectively controlling the rotational positions of the first and second shafts of the first and second stepping motors relative to the .alpha. and .beta. axes. 3. A robotic hand for controlling movement of a workpiece relative to X, Y and Z mutually perpendicular axes in response to X, Y and Z control signals and relative to mutually perpendicular rotational axes .alpha. and .beta. in response to .alpha. and .beta. control signals, the .alpha. axis being parallel to the Z axis, the .beta. axis being parallel to a plane including the X and Y axes, the hand comprising first and second motors respectively having first and second shafts rotatable about the .alpha. and .beta. axes and being respectively responsive to the fourth and fifth signals; first and second C-shaped holders for the first and second motors, respectively; the first holder including first and second parallel flanges extending in mutual parallel planes parallel to the plane of the X-Y axes, and connected together by a first web; the second holder including third and fourth parallel flanges extending in mutual parallel planes parallel to the plane of the X-Y axes; the first motor being mounted on the first holder so the first shaft extends between the first and second flanges, the third flange being fixedly mounted on the first shaft between the first and second flanges, the second flange being positioned between the third and fourth flanges, the second motor being mounted on the fourth flange; and means carrying the first holder and responsive to the first, second and third signals for controlling movement of the first holder relative to the X, Y and Z axes. 4. The robotic hand of claim 3 wherein the second motor is mounted on the fourth flange on the same side of the .alpha. axis as the first web and the second shaft extends in a direction relative to the .alpha. axis that is opposite to the first web. 