In a MIG arc welding system, a cylindrical docking body having four utilities passages therethrough is mountable in a socket at the welding station. A positioning ring on the body limits the depth of insertion in the socket. Input connectors at one end of the body accept incoming utilities such as consumable wire electrode, shielding gas, welding potential and cooling water. At the other end of the body, the passages for shielding gas and electrode wire communicate with an output fixture, which is internally threaded to receive a contact tip assembly. Plug-type water fittings on a nozzle assembly are receivable in receptacles in the docking body which communicate with the water passages, actuator tips on the fittings actuating normally-closed, spring-biased check valves in the passages to prevent leakage of water from the docking body when the nozzle assembly is demounted. The nozzle assembly is held in place by a coupling nut threadedly engaged with the docking body. There are provided both a fixed-mount embodiment, wherein all utilities but the welding wire enter the docking body radially, and a remote or movable mount embodiment, wherein all utilities enter the docking body axially.
Claims I claim: 1. In an arc welding system including a tip assembly for guiding a wire electrode to an associated workpiece at a welding station and applying welding voltage to the electrode, a fluid-cooled nozzle assembly surrounding the tip assembly for channeling a shielding gas to the welding arc, and utilities delivery means for delivering to the welding station utilities such as welding voltage, arc shielding gas, consumable wire electrode and cooling fluid, a quick connect and disconnect docking assembly comprising: a docking body disposed at the welding station and having utilities passages therethrough, means connecting said docking body to the associated utilities delivery means and receiving the wire electrode and the fluid utilities into said passages, an output fixture carried by said docking body and communicating with selected ones of said passages for passing consumable wire electrode and shielding gas from said docking body, means on said output fixture for removably mounting the tip assembly thereon in a use configuration receiving the wire electrode into the tip assembly with said output fixture providing an electrical connection between said docking body and the tip assembly, first coupling means on said docking body, second coupling means non-removably mounted on the nozzle assembly and forming a permanent part thereof, said first and second coupling means being manually removably engageable with each other without the use of tools for mounting the nozzle assembly on said docking body in a mounted condition in surrounding relationship with the tip assembly for receiving the shielding gas and the cooling fluid, and means electrically insulating said docking body from the nozzle assembly in its mounted condition, whereby the nozzle assembly can readily be mounted and demounted at the welding station without affecting the utilities delivery means upstream of the welding station. 2. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said connecting means releasably connects said docking body to the associated utilities delivery means. 3. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said first coupling means includes a threaded portion on said docking body and said second coupling means includes a member threadedly engageable with said threaded portion. 4. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said first coupling means includes receptacle means communicating with ones of said passages other than said selected ones, said second coupling means including plug-type fittings respectively receivable in said receptacles. 5. The docking assembly of claim 1, and further including valve means disposed in ones of said passage other than said selected ones for movement between a normal closed condition preventing flow of cooling fluid therethrough and an open condition permitting flow of cooling fluid therethrough, bias means resiliently urging said valve means to the closed condition thereof, and actuator means carried by the nozzle assembly for actuating said valve means to the open condition thereof when said nozzle is in the mounted condition thereof. 6. The docking assembly of clam 5, wherein said first coupling means includes receptacle means communicating with ones of said passages other than said selected ones, said valve means and said bias means being disposed in said receptacle means, said second coupling means including plug-type fittings respectively receivable in said receptacles, said actuator means being carried by said fittings. 7. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said docking body is electrically connected to the source of welding voltage, and further including means electrically insulating the nozzle assembly form said docking body and the tip assembly. 8. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said docking body has a longitudinal axis, said connecting means extending substantially parallel to said axis. 9. The docking assembly of claim 1, wherein said docking body has a longitudinal axis, said connecting means including portions which extend substantially perpendicular to said axis. 10. Docking apparatus comprising a docking body having a plurality of passages extending therethrough, a plurality of input connectors carried by said body at one end thereof and respectively communicating with said passages, an output fixture carried by said body at the other end thereof and communicating with selected ones of said passages, first coupling means on said output fixture, and second coupling means on said body at said other end thereof, said second coupling means including an externally threaded portion on said docking body. 11. The docking apparatus of claim 10, wherein said docking body is formed of metal and is of unitary one-piece construction. 12. The docking apparatus of claim 10, wherein said docking body is substantially circularly cylindrical in shape. 13. The docking apparatus of claim 12, wherein said input connectors extend substantially parallel to the axis of said docking body. 14. The docking apparatus of claim 12, wherein all but one of said input connectors extend substantially perpendicular to the axis of said docking body. 15. The docking apparatus of claim 10, wherein said externally threaded portion is coaxial with said output fixture and spaced radially outwardly therefrom. 16. The docking apparatus of claim 15, wherein said second coupling means includes receptacle means communicating with selected ones of said passages. 17. The docking apparatus of claim 10, and further including valve means disposed in at least one of said passages other than said selected ones for movement between a normal closed condition preventing flow of fluid therethrough and an open condition permitting flow of fluid therethrough, and bias means resiliently urging said valve means to the closed condition thereof. 18. In an arc welding system adapted to be carried by a movable support at a welding station and including a tip assembly for guiding a wire electrode to an associated workpiece and applying welding voltage to the electrode, a fluid-cooled nozzle assembly surrounding the tip assembly for channeling a shielding gas to the welding arc, and utilities delivery means for delivering to the welding station utilities such as welding voltage, arc shielding gas and consumable wire electrode, a quick connect and disconnect docking assembly comprising: a docking body having utilities passages therethrough, mounting means on the movable support for mounting said docking body thereon in a welding position, positioning means on said docking body engageable with said mounting means accurately to position said docking body in its welding position with respect to the movable support, means connecting said docking body to the associated utilities delivery means and receiving the wire electrode and the fluid utilities into said passages, an output fixture carried by said docking body and communicating with selected ones of said passages for passing consumable wire electrode and shielding gas from said docking body, means on said output fixture for removably mounting the tip assembly thereon in a use configuration receiving the wire electrode into the tip assembly with said output fixture providing an electrical connection between said docking body and the tip assembly, first coupling means on said docking body, second coupling means non-removably mounted on the nozzle assembly and forming a permanent part thereof, said first and second coupling means being removably engageable with each other for mounting the nozzle assembly on said docking body in a mounted condition in surrounding relationship with the tip assembly for receiving the shielding gas and the cooling fluid, and means electrically insulating said docking body from the nozzle assembly in its mounted condition, whereby the nozzle assembly can readily be mounted and demounted at the movable support without affecting the utilities delivery means upstream of the movable support. 19. The docking assembly of claim 18, wherein said mounting means includes a circular socket or receptacle for removably receiving said docking body therein, said docking body being substantially in the form of a circular cylinder. 20. The docking assembly of claim 19, wherein said positioning means includes an annular ring fixedly secured to said docking body and extending radially outwardly therefrom for engagement with said mounting means to limit the depth of insertion of said docking body in said receptacle. 