An apparatus for maintaining the weld tip and gas nozzle of a robotic welding apparatus is provided. The present invention includes a plurality of functional stations at which various operations may be performed on the gas nozzle and/or welding tip. In the first station, the gas nozzle is removed from the welding arm and the interior surface of the gas nozzle is cleaned by means of a rotating brush. In the second station of the present apparatus, a cutter slide serves to pin and shear the weld wire from the weld tip. The third station of the instant apparatus includes a grinding belt which serves to grind the leading face of the weld tip. Following the grinding operations of station three, the welding arm may be returned to station one for the reapplication of the gas nozzle and then to station four for the pneumatic application of an anti-spatter compound. Thereafter, the welding arm may be moved to station five of the present invention which includes a reference block in order that the robot arm may be positioned and welding wire extended therefrom until it contacts the reference block to establish a predetermined length of weld wire extending from the weld tip. In the event it is desired to replace the weld tip after a prescribed period of operation, following the removal of the gas nozzle and the clipping of the wire from the weld tip, the welding arm is moved to a tip removal and application station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for maintaining a welding arm having a weld tip attached thereto such that weld wire extends normally from a face of said weld tip, said welding arm having a cylindrical gas nozzle releasable attached thereto which coaxially surrounds said weld tip, comprising: a. means for removing said gas nozzle from and for reapplying said gas nozzle to said welding arm; b. means for cutting said welding wire which extends from said weld tip to facilitate retraction of said welding wire; and c. means for cleaning said face of said weld tip when said gas nozzle is removed from said welding arm. 2. Apparatus of claim 1 further comprising means for cleaning the inner surface of said gas nozzle, including: a. a first rotary motor having a rotating brush means position coaxially adjacent to said gas nozzle when gas nozzle has been removed from said welding arm; and b. means for axially advancing said brush means into and out of said gas nozzle. 3. Appratus of claim 1 further comprising means for applying an anti-spatter compound to said weld tip, weld tip face, and said gas nozzle after said face of said weld tip has been cleaned and said gas nozzle has been cleaned and reapplied to said welding arm. 4. Apparatus of claim 3 in which said means for applying an anti-spatter compound comprises a pneumatic venturi nozzle connected to a source of pneumatic pressure and effective to draw said anti-spatter compound from a reservoir thereof and deliver said anti-spatter compound to a nozzle for application to said weld tip and said gas nozzle. 5. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein said gas nozzle includes flattened recessed areas formed on the opposing sides thereof, and in which said means for removing and reapplying said gas nozzle comprises: a. a locking slide having a first area having an aperture of greater diameter than said gas nozzle and a slot open to said first area, said slot being of a width which is greater than the diameter of said gas nozzle across said recessed areas but less than the diameter of said gas nozzle; and b. means for reversably moving said locking slide from an unlocked position in which said aperture surrounds said gas nozzle to a locked position in which said slot engages said flattened areas of said gas nozzle. 6. Apparatus of claim 1 in which said means for cutting comprises: a. a reciprocatable slide means having a cutting member attached thereto; b. a backing surface in facing relation to said cutting member; c. a spring-biased gripping means movably supported on said slide means; and d. a linear motor effective to move said slide means from a retracted position remote from said backing surface to a gripping position in which said gripping means grips said weld wire against said backing surface and a cutting position in which said cutting member cuts said wire against said backing member. 7. Apparatus of claim 1 in which said means for cleaning said face of said weld tip comprises: a. a continuous grinding belt; and b. a rotary motor for continuously advancing said grinding belt. 8. Apparatus of claim 1 in which said means for removing and replacing said weld tip comprises: a. a rotary motor mounted on a slide bracket and effective to produce a rotary output in one direction; b. a first rotating spindle driven by said rotary motor and mounted on said slide bracket and which rotates in a direction effective to apply said welding tip to said welding arm; c. a second rotating spindle which is mounted on said slide bracket and driven by said first spindle and rotates in a direction effective to remove said weld tip from said welding arm; d. a magazine containing weld tips; e. a reciprocating carriage capable of removing a weld tip from said magazine and delivering it to said first spindle; f. linear motor means for reciprocating said carriage; g. means for horizontally reciprocating said slide bracket betwen a first position in which said second spindle is vertically adjacent to said welding arm and a second position in which said first spindle is vertically adjacent to said welding arm; and h. means for ejecting said weld tip from said second spindle when said slide bracket is in said second position. 9. A method of maintaining a robotic welding arm having a weld tip attached thereto such that weld wire extends normally from a face of said weld tip, said welding arm having a cylindrical gas nozzle attached thereto and which coaxially surrounds said weld tip, comprising; a. removing sid gas nozzle from said welding arm; b. cutting said welding wire which extends from said weld tip; c. retracting said welding wire; d. cleaning said face of said weld tip when said gas nozzle is removed from said welding arm; and e. reapplying said gas nozzle to said welding arm. 10. Method of claim 9 further comprising the step of cleaning said inner surface fo said gas nozzle by rotary brushing. 11. Method of claim 9 further comprising the step of applying an anti-spatter compound to said weld tip, weld tip face, and said gas nozzle after said face of said weld tip has been cleaned and said gas nozzle has been cleaned and reapplied to said welding arm. 12. Method of claim 9 further comprising the step of causing a predetermined length of weld wire to be extended from said weld tip. 13. Method of claim 12 in which said step of causing a predetermined length of said weld wire to be extended comprises: a. providing an electrically grounded metallic surface at a fixed location; b. connecting a source of electrical power to said weld wire; c. moving said weld tip to a location a distance from said fixed location equal to said predetermined length; d. extending said weld wire from said weld tip; e. sensing the electrical power present on said weld wire; and f. halting the advancement of said weld wire when the electrical power on said weld wire is sensed to be flowing to ground. 14. Method of claim 9 in which the step of removing said gas nozzle having flattened areas on the diametrical sides thereof from said weld tip comprises: a. inserting said gas nozzle through an aperture of greater diameter that said gas nozzle whoch is provided in a locking slide; b. indexing said locking slide such that a slotted area thereof of a diameter greater than that of said gas nozzle across said flattened areas but less than that of said gas nozzle engages said flattened areas; and c. retracting said welding arm from said gas nozzle. 15. Method of claim 14 in which said step of reapplying said gas nozzle to said welding arm comprises: a. inserting said welding arm into said gas nozzle while said gas nozzle is restrained by said locking slide; b. moving said locking slide such that said aperture surrounds said gas nozzle; and c. removing said welding arm to a location remote from said locking slide. 