Ultraviolet light is an effective sterilization agent. Convenient mobile sterilization devices are described herein that, in certain embodiments, provide indications to a user of how much sterilizing light is required for a given sterilization goal and how much light has been applied to a surface towards that goal. Users can move the devices across a target surface as needed to sterilize or disinfect the surface, with the device tracking the dosage applied to the surface. One embodiment of a mobile device that comprises an ultraviolet C (UVC) light source, a distance detector, an indicator, and a microprocessor that receives data from the distance detector for calculating an intensity of the light from the source on a target surface and for calculating a dosage of the light on the surface to provide a signal to the indicator when a predetermined dosage is achieved.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mobile device that provides ultraviolet light for sanitizing or sterilizing a target surface that comprises: an ultraviolet light source, a distance detector that measures a distance from the device to the target surface, an indicator, and a microprocessor that receives the distance from the distance detector, with the microprocessor comprising programming to calculate an intensity of the light from the source on a target surface, with the calculated intensity on the surface used for calculating a dosage of the light on the target surface, and to compare the calculated dosage to a predetermined dosage to provide a signal to the indicator when the predetermined dosage is achieved. 2. The device of claim 1 further comprising a movement sensor that provides device movement data to the microprocessor to include in the calculation of the dosage. 3. The device of claim 2 wherein the movement sensor comprises a gyroscope. 4. The device of claim 1 being hand-held and movable over the surface by a user grasping a proximate portion of the device. 5. The device of claim 1 further comprising a wheel for rolling the device across the surface. 6. The device of claim 1 wherein the indicator comprises a light or an audio signal. 7. The device of claim 1 wherein the indicator comprises a display that depicts a subarea of the target surface and the dosage applied to the subarea. 8. The device of claim 2 wherein the movement sensor comprises an accelerometer that provides acceleration data to the microprocessor to be incorporated into the calculation of the dosage. 9. The device of claim 2 wherein the movement sensor provides an acceleration in an x-direction and an acceleration in a y-direction, with the target surface having xy coordinates. 10. The device of claim 1 wherein the microprocessor is programmed to calculate the intensity of the light source at the surface based on a predetermined value of intensity of the light source at the light source and the distance from the light source to the surface as measured by the distance detector. 11. The device of claim 1 wherein the target surface is represented as having an x-direction and a y-direction, with the calculations subdividing the surface into a plurality of grid members and calculating a dosage for each grid member. 12. The device of claim 11 wherein a display provides a visual representation of a dosage received at each grid member. 13. The device of claim 1 further comprising executable instructions in computer readable medium for comparing the dosage to predetermined sterilization dosages for one or more organisms or conditions in the group consisting of typhoid, influenza, hepatitis, anthrax, mold A, and mold B. 14. The device of claim 1 further comprising executable instructions in computer readable medium for comparing the dosage to predetermined dosages from about 5,000 to about 100,000 microwatt-seconds per square centimeter. 15. The device of claim 1 configured as a hand-held wand with a light source disposable in an extended position for sterilization and a retracted storage position wherein the light source is stored internally to the device. 16. The device of claim 15 comprising a pivotable member to move the device from the extended position to the storage position, with the pivotable member being biased to reversibly lock the device in the extended position. 17. The device of claim 1 wherein the UV light source is a UVA light source, a UVB light source, a UVC light source or a combination UVA and UVB and UVC light source. 18. A method of disinfecting comprising moving the device of claim 1 to expose a target area to the light source until the indicator indicates the predetermined dosage is achieved. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the indicator comprises a display that depicts subareas of the target area and the dosage applied to the subareas, wherein the user moves the device over the subareas until each subarea has achieved the predetermined dosage. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein the device further comprises a movement sensor that comprises an accelerometer that provides acceleration data to the microprocessor to be incorporated into the calculation of the dosage. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the movement sensor provides an acceleration in an x-direction and an acceleration in a y-direction, with the target area having xy coordinates. 22. The method of claim 20 wherein the target area is represented as having an x-direction and a y-direction, with the calculations subdividing the area into subareas and calculating a dosage for each subarea. 23. A method of making a mobile disinfecting device for sanitizing or sterilizing a surface comprising mounting an ultraviolet light source in a housing in electronic communication with a microprocessor that communicates with a movement sensor and a distance detector that measures a distance between the device and the surface, wherein the movement sensor is configured to provide movement information to the microprocessor, with the microprocessor comprising programming for using the distance to calculate an intensity of the light source at the surface, calculation of a dosage at the surface based on the intensity of the light source at the surface, comparison of the dosage to a predetermined dosage, and activation of an indicator when the dosage at the surface achieves the predetermined dosage. 24. The method of claim 23 further comprising programming for predetermined sterilization dosages for one or more organisms or conditions in the group consisting of typhoid, influenza, hepatitis, anthrax, mold A, and mold B. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the device is hand-held and movable over the surface by a user grasping a proximate portion of the device. 26. The method of claim 23, with the device further comprising a wheel for rolling the device across the surface. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein the movement sensor provides an acceleration in an x-direction and an acceleration in a y-direction, with the surface having xy coordinates. 28. The method of claim 23, wherein the microprocessor is configured to calculate the dosage with an intensity of the light source at the surface, a predetermined value of intensity of the light source at the light source, and a distance from the light source to the surface. 29. The method of claim 23, with the device further comprising executable instructions in computer readable medium for comparing the dosage to predetermined dosages from about 5,000 to about 100,000 microwatt seconds per square centimeter. 30. The device of claim 3 configured as a hand-held wand. 31. The device of claim 3 configured as a vacuum-cleaner. 