An automatic self-inking, rubber-stamp device comprising a housing, ink pad, stamp plate and spring-loaded actuator. The device incorporates a guide pin integrally formed on the stamp plate and a cam formed on the housing wall which when the actuator is pressed down all act in coordination to turn the stamp plate over, from its resting position against the ink pad, to be pressed against the subject document. The device is further characterized by use of fewer components than in other products of the art, by its simplicity of construction and by its snap-together assembly thereby making it particularly suitable for automated and robotic assembly processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic, self-inking rubber stamp device comprising: (i) a housing having two, opposite side walls, an open planar bottom, and an ink pad compartment, the side walls each having an open-ended guide slot reaching down and open to the open planar bottom, the side walls having outer and inner sides; (ii) an ink pad received within the compartment, the ink pad facing downwardly toward the open bottom; (iii) a stamping actuator and a spring, the spring disposed between the actuator and housing, the stamping actuator upwardly urged by the spring and the actuator having two legs each extending alongside a respective outer side of the housing side walls, said legs including means for displaceably mounting said actuator to the housing between an upper resting position and a lower stamping position; (iv) each leg having a free end and having near the free end a respective depression; (v) a rubber stamp carrier plate having a flat bottom surface portion and a cam surface portion on a surface opposite the bottom surface portion, the plate having an end adjacent each side wall of the housing and having a pivot pin at each end, the plate being coupled pivotally in the depressions in the stamping actuator by the pivot pins, the pivot pins being integrally formed with the plate and extending through the housing side wall slots, said plate being disposed such that when the actuator is in its resting position the plate bottom portion faces upwardly and abuts against the ink pad, and during downward displacement of the actuator, the plate is turned over into a face-down position with the bottom portion facing downwardly and pushed toward said planar bottom so that a stamping operation can be performed; (vi) said plate having at least one projecting guide pin integrally formed with the plate, extending parallel to and adjacent a respective pivot pin; and (vii) at least one cam surface extending from an inner side of at least one of the side walls of the housing adapted to co-operate with the at least one guide pin and with the cam surface portion of the plate to effect the overturning of the plate during the downward displacement of the stamp actuator, said plate being insertable into said open planar bottom of said housing with said bottom surface of the plate facing away from the open planar bottom and with the pivot pins inserted into said open ended guide slots at the open planar bottom with said actuator in said stamping position, said legs of said actuator being flexible so that with said actuator in said stamping position, said pivot pins flex said legs and snap into said depressions, thereby facilitating assembly of the plate in the device. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cam surface has upper and lower curved friction surfaces and an open sided concavity between the friction surfaces configured to receive the guide pin during the turning over of the plate. 3. The device as claimed in claim 2, wherein a pair of said guide pins and a pair of said cam surfaces are provided, in opposite, mirror-imaged relative position. 4. The device as claimed in claim 3, wherein the actuator legs each have a bulging portion integrally formed in the legs at the free ends, the pivot pin supporting depressions being formed within the bulging portions. 5. The device as claimed in claim 8, wherein the bulging portions each have a facet directed toward the free end of the respective leg for facilitating snapping-in of a respective pivot pin in a respective depression. 6. The device as claimed in claim 2 wherein the pivot pins are constituted by the two free ends of an elongated rod. 7. The device as claimed in claim 6 wherein the rod is carried by the stamp plate and is passed through respective guide slots. 