Provided are an apparatus and a method of controlling the execution of components without an additional port or messaging for applying the dependency among the components. The apparatus comprises: a profile analyzing unit analyzing execution dependency information of components defined in an execution coordination profile; a component managing unit arranging the components in accordance with the execution sequence of the components caused by the execution dependency information; an execution coordination managing unit determining whether or not each of the components executes the operation on the basis of the execution dependency information of the corresponding component managed by the execution coordination units allocated to the components, respectively; and an operation executing unit executing the operation of each of the components in accordance with the determination result of the execution coordination manager.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus of coordinating an operation action of a robot software component, comprising: a profile analyzing unit analyzing execution dependency information of components defined in an execution coordination profile of a robot; a component managing unit arranging the components in accordance with an execution sequence of the components based on the execution dependency information; an execution coordination managing unit determining whether or not each of the components executes the operation on the basis of the execution dependency information of a corresponding component managed by an execution coordination units allocated to each of the components and without a need for an additional port or messaging; an operation executing unit executing the operation of each of the components in accordance with the determination result of the execution coordination managing unit; and wherein the operation execution unit suspends the operation of the corresponding component and executes next operation when all preceding operations of the corresponding component are not executed or not yet completed. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the execution sequence of the components is set based on the execution dependency information in a runtime. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the component managing unit allocates the execution coordination units to the components and registers the execution coordination units in the execution coordination managing unit. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the component managing unit arranges the components on an operation table of the operation executing unit in sequence. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the operation executing unit has an operation table where two or more components and execution coordination units allocated to two or more components respectively to manage the execution dependency information of the corresponding component are arranged. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the operation executing unit executes the operation of the corresponding component after all the preceding operations of the corresponding component are executed. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the operation executing unit updates a state of condition of the execution coordination unit of the corresponding component through the execution coordination managing unit when the operations of all the components are executed. 8. A method of coordinating an operation action of a robot software component, comprising: analyzing execution dependency information of components defined in an execution coordination profile of a robot by a profile analyzing unit; arranging the components in accordance with an execution sequence of the components based on the execution dependency information by a component managing unit; determining whether or not each of the components executes the operation on the basis of the execution dependency information of a corresponding component managed by an execution coordination units allocated to each of the components and without a need for an additional port or messaging, by an execution coordination managing unit; executing the operation of each of the components in accordance with the determination result of the execution coordination managing unit by an operation executing unit; and wherein the executing of the operation suspends the operation of the corresponding component and executes next operation when all preceding operations of the corresponding component are not executed or not yet completed. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the execution sequence of the components is set based on the execution dependency information in a runtime. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the execution coordination units are allocated to each of the components, by the component managing unit and registered in the execution coordination managing unit. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the arranging of the components arranges the components on an operation table of the operation executing unit in sequence. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the executing of the operation executes the operation of the corresponding component when all the preceding operations of the corresponding component are executed. 13. The method of claim 8, further comprising updating a condition state of the execution coordination unit of the corresponding component through the execution coordination managing unit when the operations of all the components are executed, by the operation executing unit. 