Method and apparatus are provided for electrostatically spray coating an article in a coating zone with a liquid coating material, such as paint, wherein air is supplied to the spray head of an air spray gun at an atomizing air flow rate in excess of 5 CFM and at a delivery pressure of less than 15 psi to atomize the liquid coating material. At this combination of relatively low pressure and relatively high volume of air the transfer efficiency is substantially higher than for conventional air spray guns. A turbine unit filters and heats the air so that the air has a temperature in excess of 70.degree. F. at the spray head. An elongated conductive rod is reciprocably supported within a nozzle of the spray head to create an electrical charge differential between the atomized liquid coating material and the article in the coating zone when charged by a high voltage source. Preferably, the rod is positioned within a liquid discharge orifice of the nozzle to alternatively open and close the nozzle. Also, preferably, the air flow rate at the spray head is in the range of 5-35 CFM, and the air delivery pressure at the spray head is in the range of three to nine psi over atmospheric pressure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for electrostatically spray-coating an article in a coating zone with a liquid coating material, the method comprising the steps of: supplying air to an atomizing device having a spray head; supplying the liquid coating material to the atomizing device; utilizing the air entering the atomizing device to atomize the liquid coating material with the air at the spray head, the air having a flow rate in excess of 5 CFM at the spray head and a delivery pressure of less than 15 psi over atmospheric pressure at the spray head; and creating an electrical charge differential between the atomized liquid coating material and the article in the coating zone for causing the atomized liquid coating material to be directed to the article. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the delivery pressure at the spray head is in the range of one to nine psi over atmospheric pressure. 3. The method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the flow rate at the spray head is in excess of 10 CFM. 4. The method as claimed in claim 3 wherein said method further comprises the step of filtering the air before the step of utilizing. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 or claim 3 or claim 4 wherein said method further comprises the step of increasing the temperature of the air at the spray head to a temperature in excess of 70.degree. F. 6. A method for electrostatically spray-coating an article in a coating zone with a liquid coating material, the method utilizing a turbine which includes a series of vanes supported on a central spindle, the method comprising the steps of: rotating the central spindle of the turbine to cause air supplied to the interior of the turbine to flow from an air outlet of the turbine; supplying air from the air outlet to an atomizing device having a spray head; supplying the liquid coating material to the atomizing device; utilizing the air entering the atomizing device to atomize the liquid coating material with the air at the spray head, the air having a flow rate in excess of 5 CFM at the spray head and a delivery pressure of less than 15 psi over atmospheric pressure at the spray head; and creating an electrical charge differential between the atomized liquid coating material and the article in the coating zone for causing the atomized liquid coating material to be directed to the article. 7. Apparatus for electrostatically spray-coating an article in a coating zone, the apparatus comprising: an atomizing device having an input liquid coating passage, a separate input air passage and a spray head, said coating passage providing a connection to a source of liquid coating material; a source of air for connection to the air passage, the air having a flow rate in excess of 5 CFM at the spray head and a delivery pressure of less than 15 psi over atmospheric pressure at the spray head, the atomizing device utilizing the air entering the atomizing device to atomize the liquid coating material at the spray head; and means, including a high voltage source, for creating an electrical charge differential between the atomized liquid coating material and the article in the coating zone. 8. The apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein said spray head includes a nozzle for spraying liquid coating material and wherein said means for creating includes an elongated electrically conductive member disposed adjacent the nozzle and adapted to be coupled to the voltage source. 9. The apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein said conductive member is movably supported within a liquid discharge orifice of the nozzle, said conductive member opening said discharge orifice to, in turn, fluidly connect the discharge orifice and the coating passage. 10. The apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein said device includes an input control passage providing a connection to a source of fluid control signals to control movement of the conductive member. 11. The apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein the delivery pressure at the spray head is in the range of one to nine psi over atmospheric pressure. 12. The apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein the flow rate at the spray head is in excess of 10 CFM. 13. The apparatus as claimed in claim 12 wherein said source of air includes a turbine unit, the turbine unit increasing the temperature of the air at the spray head to a temperature in excess of 70.degree. F. 14. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13 further comprising filter means associated with the turbine unit for filtering the air. 15. The apparatus as claimed in claim 13 or claim 14 wherein said turbine unit includes a turbine having an air inlet and an air outlet and a motor in driving engagement with the turbine to actuate the turbine, the actuated turbine drawing air into its air inlet and providing the air at the air outlet. 16. Apparatus for electrostatically spray-coating an article in a coating zone, the apparatus comprising: an atomizing device having an input coating passage, a separate input air passage and a spray head, said coating passage providing a connection to a source of liquid coating material; a source of air for connection to the air passage, the source of air including a turbine having a series of vanes supported on a central spindle for causing air supplied to the interior of the turbine to have a flow rate in excess of 5 CFM at the spray head and a delivery pressure of less than 15 psi over atmospheric pressure at the spray head, the atomizing device utilizing the air entering the atomizing device to atomize the coating material at the spray head; and means, including a high voltage source, for creating an electrical charge differential between the atomized liquid coating material and the article in the coating zone. 17. The invention as claimed in claim 1 or claim 6 or claim 7 or claim 16 wherein the spray head includes a single nozzle having a liquid discharge orifice for spraying the liquid coating material. 18. The invention as claimed in claim 17 wherein the spray head includes an air cap having an air discharge orifice, said air discharge orifice directing air toward the liquid coating material discharged from the liquid discharge orifice to atomize the liquid coating material. 19. The invention as claimed in claim 18 wherein said air discharge orifice is radially disposed about said liquid discharge orifice. 20. The invention as claimed in claim 19 wherein the air cap has a pair of shaping air orifices disposed on opposite sides of the liquid discharge orifice, said shaping air orifices directing air toward the discharged liquid coating material to further atomize the liquid coating material and to shape the resulting pattern of atomized liquid coating material. 21. The invention as claimed in claim 20 wherein each of the shaping air orifices has a diameter in the range of 2 to 5 mm, the liquid discharge orifice has a diameter in the range of 1 to 2 mm and the atomizing air discharge orifice has a diameter in the range of 5 to 9 mm. 