An optical technique for determining remotely movement of a movable point such as a point on a robotic end effector moving in three-dimensional space, based on observation of moving fringe patterns. In a preferred embodiment, at least one moving interference fringe pattern is projected from at least one spaced pair of coherent point light sources, having different frequencies, and a photodetector responsive to illumination at the movable point is employed to count fringes as they cross the movable point. The difference frequency between the light sources causes the fringes to move at a known rate to provide sense-of-direction information in that this results in the detector output having a frequency component which reflects point motion. Full three-dimensional location is obtained by observing three independent fringe patterns in three independent directions. Such a set of patterns can be produced by as few as three point sources operating at three different frequencies. All three fringe patterns are followed with a single detector, provided the frequency shift introduced for each pattern is substantially different. Thus, if these shifts are represented by .delta..sub.1, .delta..sub.2, and .delta..sub.3, the detector signal can be filtered at corresponding frequencies to separate that part of the signal corresponding to each pattern. This frequency multiplex technique works unambiguously providing .delta..sub.1, .delta..sub.2, and .delta..sub.3, and all differences between these quantities are much greater than frequency shifts introduced by point motion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for determining the change in position of a point on a robot, comprising: at least three spaced coherent light sources having predetermined difference frequencies and constituting a defined number of light source pairs, the sources of each light source pair having a unique difference frequency, and each light source pair projecting throughout a working volume of at least one cubic meter a moving pattern of interference fringes which has a known fringe spacing and is independent of the moving pattern of interference fringes from each of the other light source pairs; a single filament fiber optic whose tip is located at said point on said robot, which is movable anywhere within the working volume, and senses instantaneous illumination; said fiber optic being coupled to a photodetector that provides a detector signal having, for each of the moving patterns of interference fringes, a frequency component determined by the number of interference fringes crossing said fiber optic tip per unit time; a filter for each of said light source pairs for separating out of said detector signal the frequency component of the corresponding moving pattern of interference fringes; and a signal processor for comparing each detector signal frequency component to the light source difference frequency of the corresponding pair to determine the change in position of said point on said robot over any time interval. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said point whose position is monitored is on the robot end effector. 3. A method for determining the position in extended three-dimensional space of a point on a robot that is in motion, comprising: projecting at least three moving patterns of interference fringes throughout a working volume of at least one cubic meter from a defined number of pairs of coherent light sources with each pair having a predetermined difference frequency and with each moving pattern independent of the other moving patterns; intercepting said interference fringes at said point on said robot with a fiber optic which is coupled to a photo detector and generates a signal having for each of said moving patterns of interference fringes a frequency component determined by the number of interference fringes crossing said fiber optic per unit time; providing a filter for each of the light source pairs to separate out of said signal the frequency component of the corresponding moving pattern of interference fringes; and comparing each signal frequency component to the light source difference frequency component of the corresponding pair and determining the change in position of said point on said robot over any time interval. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising initializing said point on said robot to a known reference position, and determining a subsequent position of said point by modifying coordinates of said reference position in accordance with the measured change in position. 