Three sets of pincer units depend from a flat palm, each pincer unit having a pinching gap at its distal end for engaging a loaded circuit board by its edges and holding it in a spaced-apart relationship with the palm. Each pincer unit includes a finger having a flange at its distal end and a thumb slideably mounted on the finger so as to define a variable pinching gap. The fingers are mounted for prehensiling movement away from one another for bracketing a board to be picked up and toward one another so that the board to be picked up may be squeezed between them. The invention includes a method for picking up a loaded circuit board which involves bracketing a board to be picked up between a set of pincer units, squeezing the board by moving the pincer units toward one another against opposing edges of the board while simultaneously pinching each edge engaged with the pincer units.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A robot hand for use in individually picking up, transporting and releasing a variety of loaded circuit boards without impinging upon the circuitry, components and connectors on the boards, each board having first and second opposing edges, comprising: a palm having a wrist connection site for connection with a wrist of a robot; a first pincer unit depending from the palm for engaging a first edge of a circuit board; second and third pincer units, depending from the palm for engaging a second opposing edge of the board, said second and third pincer units lying along a predetermined reference line with which said second edge of the board is aligned by said pincer units; means for adjusting the relative positions of said second and third pincer along said reference line so that said second and third pincer units selectively engage clear spots along said second edge of the board; each pincer unit being adapted to pinch and hold its corresponding edge of the circuit board by means of a thumb and finger set, each set defining a pinching gap and each set being operable between a pinching state in which the gap is relatively closed and an open state in which the gap is relatively open, and the configuration of the pincer units and their pinching gaps being such as to hold a board between the units in a spaced-apart relationship with respect to the palm. 2. The robot hand of claim 1 further comprising means for producing prehensiling movement of pincer units on opposing edges of the board toward one another so as to squeeze the board between them and away from one another so as to permit bracketing of the board between them or so as to release the board from between them. 3. The robot hand of claim 1 or 2 wherein the first pincer unit is translatably mounted on the palm for movement toward and away from the reference line and further comprising means for controllably translating said first pincer unit relative to said reference line to accommodate circuit boards of various sizes. 4. The robot hand of claim 3 wherein the palm lies substantially in a plane parallel to a wrist axis and is rotatable about said wrist axis and wherein said reference line is substantially perpendicular to said wrist axis. 5. The robot hand of claim 3 wherein said second and third pincer units are translatably mounted on the palm for independent movement toward and away from one another along the reference line. 6. The robot hand of claim 3 wherein the first pincer unit is distal to the wrist connection site and the second and third pincer units are located proximate to the wrist connection site and on opposite sides of said site. 7. The robot hand of claim 3 wherein the finger of each pincer unit has a flange on its end distal to the palm and wherein the thumb is slidably mounted on the finger for reciprocating movement toward and away from the flange. 8. The robot hand of claim 7 wherein the thumb has a tapered end for engagement with the circuit board so as to draw the pincer unit toward the board as it pinches the board. 9. The robot hand of claim 2 wherein said first pincer unit is translatably mounted on the palm for movement toward and away from the pincer units adjacent the opposing edge of the board within a range between a distal limit position and a proximate limit position, respectively, and wherein the prehensiling movement producing means includes means for selectively resiliently driving said first pincer unit toward those positions. 10. The robot hand of claim 9 further comprising means for selectively imposing a second proximate limit position on the movement of said first pincer unit for use in picking up a board from a test fixture, said second limit being intermediate the distal limit and the first proximate limit. 11. The robot hand of claim 10 further comprising means for controllably translating the range of prehensiling movement of said first pincer unit toward and away from the pincer units adjacent the opposing edge of the board in order to accommodate circuit boards of various sizes. 12. The robot hand of claim 2 wherein at least one of the pincer units is hingedly mounted to said palm for pivoting movement toward and away from a pincer unit adjacent the opposing edge of the board thereby affording a squeezing position and a releasing position, respectively, and wherein the prehensiling movement producing means includes means for selectively pivoting said hingedly mounted pincer unit toward those positions. 13. The robot hand of claim 3 further comprising drive means for controllably actuating said pincer units to bracket opposing edges of a board to be grasped, to squeeze the board between the pincer units and to pinch clear spots on the edges of the board. 14. The robot hand of claim 3 wherein the pinching gap of at least one pincer unit in its open state is sized so that the hand can grasp circuit boards in a tote box where the location of the circuit boards may vary on the order of plus or minus 30 mils. 15. The robot hand of claim 2 wherein the pincer units extend generally perpendicularly to said palm, are designed to hold a board in a predetermined reference plane and pinch substantially just the edge of the board. 16. A method for individually grasping a variety of loaded circuit boards with a robot hand, each board having first and second opposing edges, comprising the steps of: including within the robot hand first, second and third pincer units depending therefrom of the type having a closable pinching gap, said first pincer unit being designed to engage a first edge of a circuit board, said second and third pincer units being designed to engage a second opposing edge of the circuit board and being translatable along a predetermined reference line; positioning the robot hand with respect to the board to be grasped so that the pinching gaps of the pincer units bracket the opposing edges of the board; positioning the second and third pincer units along said reference line so that they will engage clear spots along the second edge of the board; producing prehensiling movement of at least one of the pincer units to squeeze the board between the pincer units with the bracketed edges of the board located within the pinching gaps and so that the second edge of the board is aligned with said reference line; and pinching the board at its edges by closing the pinching gaps. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said variety of boards includes boards of various sizes and further including the step of: translating at least one of said pincer units relative to the other pincer units to accommodate the size of the particular board to be grasped. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the board to be grasped rests on a deformable gasket and wherein the bracketing step includes the step of: depressing the gasket by pressing a pincer unit against it. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein the precise location of the board to be grasped is not known and further including the step of: providing at least one of the pincer units with a pinching gap sized so that the robot hand can grasp the circuit board regardless of where it is located within a specified tolerance. 