A mechanical manipulator having a joint with a base support and an output support each of which has an orthogonal pivot connection arrangement connecting them in one axis to a common joining arrangement connecting them in an orthogonal axis through which they are movably joined, there being a pair of guides with each rotatably connected to one of the supports and movably joined with each other. A plurality of such joints joined with one another can be provided between two rotary interfaces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic manipulator operable from a manipulator base, said manipulator comprising: a first joint comprising: a first joint base support joined with said manipulator base; a first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means rotatably connected to said first joint base support about a first axis; a first joint pivot connector joining means rotatably connected to said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means about a second axis substantially orthogonal to said first axis; a first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means rotatably connected to said first joint pivot connector joining means about a third axis substantially parallel to said second axis, said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means being movably joined also with said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means; a first joint manipulable support rotatably connected to said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means about a fourth axis substantially orthogonal to said third axis; a first joint base guide means positioned about said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means and rotatably connected to said first joint base support about a fifth axis substantially parallel to said second axis; and a first joint manipulable guide means positioned about said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means and rotatably connected to said first joint manipulable support about a sixth axis substantially parallel to said third axis, said first joint manipulable guide means being movably joined with said first joint base guide means on either side of said first joint pivot connector joining means. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first joint manipulable support is connected through a first extension means to a second joint capable of movement with respect thereto. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means is movably joined with said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means, as aforesaid, through at least one opening in said first joint pivot connector joining means. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first joint manipulable guide means is movably joined with said first joint base guide means, as aforesaid, through being in direct contact with one another. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first joint base support has a portion thereof formed substantially as a truncated sphere to which said first joint base orthogonal pivot connecting means is rotatably connected, as aforesaid. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first joint further comprises first joint first and second force imparting means, said first joint first force imparting means being rotatably connected to said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means to be capable of selectively applying force thereto, said first joint second force imparting means being rotatably connected to said first joint base guide means to be capable of selectively applying force thereto. 7. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein portions of said second joint have freedom to rotate to at least some extent about a selected axis with respect to other portions thereof. 8. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said second joint is connected through a second extension means to a third joint capable of movement with respect thereto. 9. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means is movably joined with said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means through at least one opening in said first joint pivot connector joining means through having gear teeth on said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means meshing with gear teeth on said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means. 10. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said first joint manipulable guide means is in direct contact with said first joint base guide means through having gear teeth on said first joint manipulable guide means meshing with gear teeth on said first joint base guide means. 11. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means has a portion formed substantially as a portion of a spherical shell positioned substantially concentrically about said truncated sphere. 12. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said first joint base support is joined with said manipulator base, as aforesaid, in a connection permitting them to rotate with respect to one another through use of a first bearing means, and wherein said first joint further comprises a first joint third force imparting means mounted on said first joint base support and joined with said manipulator base in such a manner so as to permit said first joint third force imparting means to force said first joint base support to rotate with respect to said manipulator base. 13. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said first joint first force imparting means comprises a first motor means and a first linear actuator rotatably connected to said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means, and wherein said first joint second force imparting means comprises a second motor means and a second linear actuator rotatably connected to said first joint base guide means. 14. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said first joint further comprises first joint third and fourth force imparting means, said first joint third force imparting means being rotatably connected to said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means substantially opposite said first joint first force imparting means, and said first joint fourth force imparting means being rotatably connected to said first joint base guide means substantially opposite said first joint second force imparting means. 15. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said second joint is formed of a second joint first member that is connected to said first extension means, and that is also rotatably connected to a second joint second member to permit rotation about said selected axis. 16. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein portions of said third joint have freedom to rotate to at least some extent about a selected axis with respect to other portions thereof. 17. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein said gear teeth on said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means are provided in two separate tracks substantially parallel to each other and to said fourth axis to mesh with said gear teeth on said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means there provided also in two separate corresponding tracks substantially parallel to one another and to said first axis. 18. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein said first joint manipulable guide means is formed substantially as a cylindrical shell with portions of an end thereof on either side of said first joint pivot connector joining means being movably joined with said first joint base guide means, as aforesaid, through having a set of said gear teeth provided at each of two locations on said end where in direct contact with said first joint base guide means, and with said end being curved in following a circular arc about an axis substantially orthogonal to said sixth axis at each of those said two locations thereon, and wherein said first joint base guide means is formed substantially as a cylindrical shell with portions of an end thereof on either side of said first joint pivot connector joining means being movably joined with said first joint base guide means, as aforesaid, through having a set of said gear teeth provided at each of two locations on said end where in direct contact with said first joint manipulable guide means, and with said end being curved in following a circular arc about an axis substantially orthogonal to said fifth axis at each of those said two locations thereon. 19. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said first joint manipulable support has a portion thereof formed substantially as a truncated sphere to which said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means is rotatably connected, as aforesaid. 20. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said first joint base guide means has a portion formed substantially as a cylindrical shell. 21. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said first motor means and said second motor means are mounted on said first joint base support. 22. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said second joint second member is connected to a second extension means, and a second joint force imparting means is mounted on a selected one of said first and second extension means and movably joined with that one of said second joint first and second members connected to that one of said first and second extension means opposite to that one on which said second joint first force imparting means is mounted. 23. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said third joint further comprises: a third joint base support connected to said second extension means; a third joint base orthogonal pivot connection means rotatably connected to said third joint base support about a first axis; a third joint pivot connector joining means rotatably connected to said third joint base orthogonal pivot connection means about a second axis substantially orthogonal to said first axis; a third joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means rotatably connected to said third joint pivot connector joining means about a third axis substantially parallel to said second axis, said third joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means being movably joined also with said third joint base orthogonal pivot connection means; a third joint manipulable support rotatably connected to said third joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means about a fourth axis substantially orthogonal to said third axis; a third joint base guide means positioned about said third joint base orthogonal pivot connection means and rotatably connected to said third joint base support about a fifth axis substantially parallel to said second axis; and a third joint manipulable guide means positioned abut said third joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means and rotatably connected to said third joint manipulable support about a sixth axis substantially parallel to said third axis, said third joint manipulable guide means being movably joined with said third joint base guide means on either side of said third joint pivot connector joining means. 24. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said gear teeth along one of said tracks are helical gear teeth. 25. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said gear teeth at one of said locations on one of said ends are helical gear teeth. 26. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means has a portion formed substantially as a portion of a spherical shell positioned substantially concentrically with said truncated sphere serving as a part of said first joint manipulable support. 27. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said first joint manipulable guide means has a portion formed substantially as a cylindrical shell. 28. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said cylindrical shell forming said first joint base guide means has an end thereof such that at two locations thereon, one on either side of said first joint pivot connector joining means, that end is there curved in following a circular arc about an axis substantially orthogonal to said fifth axis. 29. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said second joint force imparting means comprises a first motor means and a first linear actuator, said first linear actuator being rotatably connected to a selected one of said second joint first and second members. 30. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said third joint further comprises third joint first and second force imparting means, said third joint first force imparting means being rotatably connected to said third joint base orthogonal pivot connection means to be capable of selectively applying force thereto, said third joint second force imparting means being rotatably connected to said third joint base guide means to be capable of selectively applying force thereto. 31. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein said gear teeth along each of said tracks in that pair on said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means and in that pair of said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means form a separated herringbone gear tooth set. 32. The apparatus of claim 25 wherein that pair of said sets of gear teeth at both of said two locations on said end of said first joint manipulable guide means and that pair of said sets of gear teeth at both of said two locations on said end of said first joint base guide means as a pair form a separated herringbone gear tooth set. 33. The apparatus of claim 26 wherein said first joint pivot connector joining means has that end thereof connected to said first joint base orthogonal pivot connection means being formed substantially as a portion of a spherical shell positioned substantially concentrically about that said spherical shell serving as said joint base orthogonal pivot connection means, and with that other end of said first joint pivot connector joining means that is connected to said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means also formed substantially as a portion of a spherical shell positioned substantially concentrically about that said spherical shell serving as said first joint manipulable orthogonal pivot connection means, with said opening in said first joint pivot connector joining means extending between said spherical shell portions forming either end thereof. 34. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein said cylindrical shell serving as a portion of said first joint base guide means has an end thereof such that at two locations thereon, one on either side of said first joint pivot connector joining means, that end is there curved in following a circular arc about an axis substantially orthogonal to said fifth axis, and wherein said cylindrical shell serving as a portion of said fist joint manipulable guide means has an end thereof such that at two locations thereon, one on either side of said first joint pivot connector joining means, that end is there curved in following a circular arc about an axis substantially orthogonal to said sixth axis. 35. The apparatus of claim 28 wherein said end of said cylindrical shell, at further locations thereon between said two locations thereon, dips closer toward an opposite end of said cylindrical shell serving as part of said first joint base guide to be closer to that said opposite end at those further locations than are said circular arcs at said two locations thereon. 36. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said third joint further comprises third joint third and fourth force imparting means, said third joint third force imparting means being rotatably connected to said third joint base orthogonal pivot connection means substantially opposite said third joint first force imparting means, and said third joint fourth force impairing means being rotatably connected to said third joint base guide means substantially opposite said third joint second force imparting means. 37. The apparatus of claim 30 wherein said third joint manipulable support has an end portion thereof opposite remaining portions of said third joint which is rotatable with respect to such remaining portions of said third joint manipulable support. 38. The apparatus of claim 33 wherein said first joint base guide means has a portion formed substantially as a cylindrical shell. 39. The apparatus of claim 34 wherein said end of said cylindrical shell serving as a portion of said first joint base guide means, at further locations thereon between said two locations thereon, dips closer to an opposite end thereof to be closer to that said opposite end at those further locations than are said circular arcs at said two locations thereon, and wherein said end of said cylindrical shell serving as a portion of said first joint manipulable guide means, at further locations therein between said two locations thereon, dips closer to an opposite end thereof to be closer to that said opposite end at those further locations than are said circular arcs at said two locations thereon. 40. The apparatus of claim 36 wherein said third joint first, second, third and fourth force imparting means are each formed of a motor means mounted in said second extension means, and a corresponding linear actuator. 41. The apparatus of claim 38 wherein said first joint manipulable guide means has a portion formed substantially as a cylindrical shell. 42. The apparatus of claim 41 wherein said cylindrical shell serving as apportion of said first joint base guide means has an end thereof such that at two locations thereon, one on either side of said first joint pivot connector joining means, that end is there curved in following a circular arc about an axis substantially orthogonal to said fifth axis, and wherein said cylindrical shell serving as a portion of said first joint manipulable guide means has an end thereof such that at two locations thereon, one on either side of said first joint pivot connector joining means, that end is there curved in following a circular arc about an axis substantially orthogonal to said sixth axis. 43. The apparatus of claim 42 wherein said end of said cylindrical shell serving as a portion of said first joint base guide means, at further locations thereon between said two locations thereon, dips closer to an opposite end thereof to be closer to that said opposite end of those further locations than are said circular arcs at said two locations thereon, and wherein said end of said cylindrical shell serving as a portion of said first joint manipulable guide means, at further locations thereon between said two locations thereon, dips closer to an opposite end thereof to be closer to that said opposite end at those further locations than are said circular arcs at said two locations thereon. 44. A robotic manipulator operable from a manipulator base, said manipulator comprising: a plurality of movable joints each capable of having a portion thereof angularly moveable about at least two substantially different axes; an extension means joining two of said joints; a first rotary coupling located between said manipulator base and a first joint, said first rotary coupling being capable of permitting those portions of said manipulator connected thereto on a side opposite of said manipulator base to rotate with respect to said manipulator base; and a second rotary coupling separated from said first rotary coupling by at least two of said joints and said extension, said second rotary coupling being capable of permitting any structure connected thereto on a side thereof opposite said extension to rotate with respect to said extension. 