A bubble removal system includes an inspection cell configured to receive an ophthalmic device and a volume of working fluid. The system also includes a vacuum device configured to form a substantially fluid-tight seal with the inspection cell and to direct a negative pressure to the volume of working fluid and the ophthalmic device within the inspection cell.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A bubble removal system, comprising: an inspection cell configured to receive an ophthalmic device and a volume of working fluid; and a vacuum device configured to form a substantially fluid-tight seal with the inspection cell and to direct a negative pressure to the volume of working fluid and the ophthalmic device within the inspection cell, wherein the vacuum device comprises a head defining at least one channel, a piston and an arm, a portion of the piston being disposed within the at least one channel. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein a component of the vacuum device is controllably moveable relative to the inspection cell to assist in forming the substantially fluid-tight seal. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the inspection cell is a component of an inspection station disposed upstream of a packaging station. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the vacuum device is configured to assist in removing at least one bubble defined by the working fluid. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the vacuum device is configured to assist in bringing a portion of the working fluid to a boil. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the vacuum device is configured to assist in defining a sealed region of the inspection cell, the sealed region containing ambient air disposed adjacent to a surface of the working fluid. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the vacuum device is configured to assist in substantially evacuating the ambient air from the sealed region. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the vacuum device is configured to reduce a pressure of the sealed region below a vapor pressure of the working fluid. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the head is connected to an actuation assembly configured to control the position of the head relative to the inspection cell. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the vacuum device further comprises a vacuum line and a compressor, the vacuum line being fluidly connected to the at least one channel. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the portion of the piston forms a substantially fluid-tight seal with the at least one channel. 12. A method of removing bubbles formed in a volume of working fluid, comprising: disposing an ophthalmic device within the volume of working fluid, the volume of working fluid being contained within an inspection cell; forming a sealed region between the inspection cell and a vacuum device; directing a negative pressure to the sealed region with the vacuum device which includes increasing a volume of the sealed region; and removing at least one bubble from the volume of working fluid. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one bubble is adhered to the ophthalmic device. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein directing the negative pressure to the sealed region includes bringing a portion of the working fluid to a boil. 15. The method of claim 12, further including trapping ambient air in the sealed region and substantially evacuating the ambient air from the sealed region. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein directing the negative pressure to the sealed region includes increasing a dimension of the at least one bubble. 17. The method of claim 12, wherein increasing the volume of the sealed region includes transitioning a piston of the vacuum device from an extended position to a retracted position, the piston forming a portion of the sealed region. 18. A method of preparing a volume of working fluid for the inspection of an ophthalmic device, comprising: substantially submerging the ophthalmic device in the working fluid; reducing a pressure of the working fluid below an ambient pressure; bringing a portion of the working fluid to a boil; increasing the pressure of the working fluid to the ambient pressure; and sensing at least one characteristic of the ophthalmic device while the ophthalmic device is substantially submerged in the working fluid. 19. The method of claim 18, further including defining a sealed region, the sealed region containing the working fluid and a pocket of ambient air disposed adjacent to a surface of the working fluid. 20. The method of claim 18, further including packaging the ophthalmic device based on the sensing of the at least one characteristic. 21. The method of claim 18, further including removing at least one bubble from the working fluid. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein reducing the pressure of the working fluid includes defining a sealed region containing the working fluid and increasing a volume of the sealed region. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein increasing the volume of the sealed region includes transitioning a piston of a vacuum device from an extended position to a retracted position, the piston forming a portion of the sealed region. 