A method of swipe-scanning a graphic image pre-printed on a surface. The method comprises the steps of: (i) operatively positioning a swipe-scanner relative to the surface and swiping the scanner across the surface; (ii) capturing, during the swipe, successive images of portions of the graphic image; (iii) printing, during the swipe, successive parts of a position-coding pattern onto the graphic image, the position-coding pattern identifying a plurality of absolute positions and an impression identity for the graphic image; (iv) sensing, during the swipe, positions of the scanner; (v) using the sensed positions to control, during the swipe, printing of the position-coding pattern; (vi) using the sensed positions to assemble the captured portions of the graphic image into a scanned graphic image; and (vii) generating association data indicating an association between the impression identity, the plurality of absolute positions and the scanned graphic image.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of swipe-scanning and printing onto a graphic image pre-printed on a surface, said method comprising the steps of: (i) operatively positioning a scanning and printing device relative to the surface and swiping the device across the surface, said device comprising a scanhead and a printhead; (ii) capturing, during said swipe, successive images of portions of the graphic image using the scanhead; (iii) printing, during said swipe, successive parts of a position-coding pattern onto said graphic image using said printhead, said position-coding pattern identifying a plurality of absolute positions and an impression identity for the graphic image; (iv) sensing, during said swipe, positions of said device; (v) using the sensed positions to control, during said swipe, printing of the position-coding pattern; (vi) using the sensed positions to assemble said captured portions of said graphic image into a scanned graphic image; and (vii) generating association data indicating an association between the impression identity, the plurality of absolute positions and the scanned graphic image. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said positions of said device are sensed using a first image sensor positioned for imaging portions of said surface on which said printhead has printed during a swipe of the surface, each imaged portion containing part of the position-coding pattern printed by said printhead during said swipe. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said first image sensor is positioned downstream of said printhead, wherein a swipe direction is defined as upstream. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said positions of said device are sensed using a relative motion sensor. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said positions of said device are sensed using an optical mouse sensor. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein an initial position of said device provides a reference point for said position-coding pattern. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said reference point is an origin. 8. The method of claim 3, wherein said origin is based on an assumed initial swipe direction in step (i). 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said origin is a top-left corner of the position-coding pattern, and said initial swipe direction is a left-to-right swipe or a top-to-down swipe. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein step (i) further comprises the sub-steps of: imaging part of a position-coding pattern printed during a previous swipe of the device; and determining an absolute position of the device, wherein said imaged part of the position-coding pattern is contained in an outer perimeter of the position-coding pattern printed during the previous swipe. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said swiping comprises swiping outwardly from said outer perimeter of said pre-printed position-coding pattern. 12. The method of claim 2, further comprising the steps of: sensing an orientation of the device relative to the position-coding pattern; using the orientation together with said absolute positions to assemble said scanned graphic image. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said impression identity is accessed from any one of: a memory in said device, said memory storing a plurality of impression identities; and a computer system communicating with said device. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said images of the graphic image are captured using a second image sensor positioned parallel and/or substantially coextensive with a printhead. 15. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of communicating the association data to a computer system, the computer system being configured to confer interactivity on at least part of the pre-printed graphic image using the association data. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said association data enables said computer system to associate one or more zones of the graphic image with a corresponding interactive element. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein said interactive element is a hyperlink and said computer system is configured to: receive the association data from the device; perform Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the scanned graphic image to convert text images into computer text; identify a URI text string in the computer text; generate an input description for said scanned graphic image, said input description describing the URI and a zone of the URI text string in the scanned graphic image; and store a page description comprising said input description and said scanned graphic image, said page description being indexed with said impression identity. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising the steps of: interacting with a pre-printed URI text string on the surface using an optically imaging sensing device; reading at least part of the position-coding pattern; generating interaction data identifying the impression identity and a position of the sensing device; communicating the interaction data to the computer system; and receiving a resource corresponding to the hyperlink. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein said computer system is configured to: receive the association data from the device; perform Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the scanned graphic image to convert text images into computer text; generate an input description for said scanned graphic image, said input description describing words of computer text and zones of corresponding text images in the scanned graphic image; and store a page description comprising said input description and said scanned graphic image, said page description being indexed with said impression identity. 20. The method of claim 19 further comprising the steps of: interacting with a printed portion of text on the surface using an optically imaging sensing device; reading at least part of the position-coding pattern; generating interaction data identifying the impression identity and a position of the sensing device; communicating the interaction data to the computer system; and at least one of: receiving search results relating to said portion of text; and copying computer text corresponding to said portion of text to a clipboard. 