An apparatus that controls movement of an arm through a gaseous or liquid fluid. The apparatus incorporates a plurality of longitudinally extensible hose members that expand and contract their respective lengths responsive to introduction and withdrawal, respectively, of hydraulic fluid thereinto and therefrom. The hose members are interconnected to one another through a plurality of longitudinally spaced, transversely disposed brace members that may serve as lever means so that expansion or contraction of one hose member can effect an opposite response in an opposed member. The brace members may be interconnected by a spine means that coincides with the longitudinal axis of symmetry of the apparatus. A sheath covers the apparatus. The arm has applications in the field of robotics and a special rat tail-like form of the apparatus provides a low drag substitute for conventional aircraft rudder and elevator assemblies.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for controlling movement of an elongate arm through a fluid, comprising, in combination, a plurality of elongate flexible and longitudinally extensible hose members of the type adapted to receive hydraulic fluid therein, said hose members disposed in substantial parallelism relative to one another, and in circumferential relation to one another about a common longitudinal axis of symmetry, a plurality of longitudinally spaced brace members adapted to engage said hose members at longitudinally spaced intervals thereof, so that extension or contraction of said hose members effects divergence and convergence, respectively, of said brace members, relative to one another, an articulated, elongate spine member interconnecting said brace members, said spine member disposed substantially coincident with said common longitudinal axis of symmetry, means for independently introducing or withdrawing hydraulic fluid into and out of said hose members, respectively, so that a curvature can be introduced into said arm attendant introduction and withdrawal of unequal amounts of hydraulic fluid into and out of different ones of said hose members, said plurality of hose members being four in number, and each of said brace members having two substantially equal in length brace portions arrayed in orthogonal relation to one another such that their respective mid sections cross at the longitudinal axis of symmetry of the apparatus. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said means for independently introducing or withdrawing said hydraulic fluid into or from said hose members includes a first means for introducing like amounts of hydraulic fluid into each of said hose members on a substantially simultaneous basis, and further includes a second means for introducing and withdrawing unequal amounts of hydraulic fluid into and out of said hose members, said first means effecting longitudinal extension and retraction of said arm and said second means effecting curvature of said arm. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said hose members and brace members are housed within an elongate sheath member of flexible construction. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the transverse cross sectional area of said apparatus is uniform throughout its length. 