A protection arrangement for industrial robotics and other applications reacts to torsion moments and pressure forces in addition to bending moments and traction forces acting upon the flange of the industrial robotics. In the protection arrangement, a protection flange (1) is pulled or held in compression against pins (6) arranged on a divided circle with the tie rod (2) by means of springs (3). On the left end of the tie rod (2) an activating element (10) has been arranged, pressed against a sliding member (12) and/or activating levers (17) by means of spring (11). Upon shifting the activating element (10), a switch (13) is activated for deactivating the industrial robots. This protection arrangement provides mechanical protection for the gripper in addition to the conventional fuse electrical protection for the activating drives.
Claims We claim: 1. A protection arrangement for industrial robots against consequences resulting from collisions during operating and programming of the industrial robot, the protection arrangement including a flange connected to a movable portion of the industrial robot, the protection arrangement comprising a switching arrangement including a switch responsive to tensional and compressional forces for deactivating the industial robot, the switching arrangement also response to bending and torsion forces acting upon the flange of the industrial robot for deactivating the industrial robot, the protection arrangement further comprising a protection flange, an anchor pin, and a plurality of movable pins extending from the flange of the industrial robot and having one end mechanically contacting the protection flange, each movable pin having one of a set of first springs located thereon and providing a force at the one end for mechanical contact against the protection flange while the anchor pin provides an opposite force to hold the protection flange in a position against the plurality of pins, first mechanical coupling means located on the anchor rod in the vicinity of the flange of the industrial robot responsive to displacement of the anchor rod in a first detection for operating the switch for deactivating the industrial robot, and second mechanical coupling means responsive to displacement of at least one movable pin in a second direction for operating the switch for deactivating the industrial robot. 2. A protection arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the one ends of the plurality of movable pins against which the protection flange is pulled each have a conical shape and can be shifted in axial direction and each pin includes a collar for compression its one of the set of the first springs against the flange of the industrial robot. 3. A protection arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the second mechanical coupling means comprises an activating element, a sliding member, at least one activating lever disposed to pivot between a movable pin and the activating member. 4. A protection arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the anchor rod includes an arrangement comprising two lock nuts and a spring for adjusting a compressional force on the spring corresponding to the opposite force. 5. A protection arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the set of first springs comprises plate springs whose number, type and manner of layering determines the value of the force for deactivating the industrial robot. 6. A protection arrangement according to claim 1, wherein the switch comprises a non-contact proximity switch. 