The present invention provides a system and method for the simultaneous detection of multiple analytes in a sample. The detection system includes a housing that holds a reagent carousel rotatably coupled thereto. Further included in the housing is an incubator carousel rotatably coupled thereto. The housing also includes magnetic material that is associated with the incubation carousel for assisting in separation beads from reagent and wash solution. A robot, associated with the housing is configured to manipulate at least either the reagent carousel or the incubator carousel and transfer materials between these carousels. Reaction vessels hold samples and reaction vessels handlers move the reaction vessels. Sample analysis is determined by at least one laser based detector.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A method for diluting and mixing of a sample or cleaning a sample probe, the process comprising: a) providing a probe and a multipurpose stationary device, wherein the multipurpose stationary device comprises: a first chamber having an open end and a drain port; a second chamber having an open end and a drain port; a dilution chamber having two cylindrical sections, with each section having an open end and a centerline, wherein the centerline of the first section and the centerline of the second section coincide to form a centerline of the dilution chamber; a cylindrical wash port having a centerline and an opening to the first section of the dilution chamber, wherein the centerline of the cylindrical wash port does not intersect with the centerline of the dilution chamber; and a cylindrical dilution port connected to the second section of the dilution chamber; wherein the probe can be moved into the first chamber through the open end of the first chamber, the probe can be moved into the second chamber through the open end of the second chamber, and the probe can be moved into the first section of the dilution chamber through the open end of the first section of the dilution chamber; b) adding a volume of dilution fluid to the dilution chamber via the dilution port, c) adding a volume of sample to the dilution chamber from the probe to form a diluted sample, wherein the probe has an interior surface and an exterior surface; d) immersing the probe into the first chamber to wash the interior surface and the exterior surface of the probe; e) draining the first chamber; f) moving the probe to the dilution chamber and aspirating the diluted sample or portion thereof into the probe; g) dispensing the aspirated diluted sample or portion thereof from the probe into a reaction vessel; and h) immersing the probe into the second chamber to wash the interior surface and the exterior surface of the probe. 2. The method according to claim 1, where the sample is a blood sample that is hemolyzed in the dilution chamber. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein steps (b)-(h) are performed by an automated instrument. 4. A method for diluting and mixing of a sample, the process comprising: a) providing a probe and a multipurpose stationary device, wherein the multipurpose stationary device comprises: a first chamber having an open end and a drain port; a second chamber having an open end and a drain port; a dilution chamber having two cylindrical sections, with each section having an open end and a centerline, wherein the centerline of the first section and the centerline of the second section coincide to form a centerline of the dilution chamber; a cylindrical wash port having a centerline and an opening to the first section of the dilution chamber, wherein the centerline of the cylindrical wash port does not intersect with the centerline of the dilution chamber; and a cylindrical dilution port connected to the second section of the dilution chamber; wherein the probe can be moved into the first chamber through the open end of the first chamber, the probe can be moved into the second chamber through the open end of the second chamber, and the probe can be moved into the first section of the dilution chamber through the open end of the first section of the dilution chamber; b) adding a volume of dilution fluid to the dilution chamber via the dilution port, c) adding a volume of sample to the dilution chamber from the probe to form a diluted sample; and d) aspirating the diluted sample or portion thereof from the dilution chamber into the probe and dispensing the aspirated diluted sample or portion thereof in a reaction vessel. 5. The method according to claim 4 further comprising steps (e)-(h) performed following steps (b) and (c) and prior to step (d): e) aspirating the diluted sample or portion thereof from the dilution chamber into the probe; f) draining the dilution chamber; g) adding a volume of dilution fluid to the dilution chamber via the dilution port; and h) adding a volume of the diluted sample or portion thereof to the dilution chamber. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein steps (b), (c) and (d) are performed by an automated instrument. 7. The method of claim 1 or claim 4, wherein the multipurpose stationary device is a one-piece solid structure. 8. The method of claim 1 or claim 4, wherein the diameter of the first section of the dilution chamber is greater than the diameter of the second section of the dilution chamber. 9. A multiple analyte detection system, comprising: a chassis; a reagent storage assembly having a rotatable carousel coupled to said chassis; an incubator carousel assembly coupled to said chassis and configured to receive a plurality of reaction vessels; at least one automated reaction vessel handler coupled to said chassis and configured to deliver a reaction vessel to said incubator carousel assembly; a sample handler assembly coupled to said chassis, wherein said sample handler assembly comprises a probe, and wherein said sample handler assembly can move said probe in horizontal and vertical directions; a detector module attached to said chassis; and a multipurpose stationary device coupled to said chassis comprising a first chamber having an open end and a drain port; a second chamber having an open end and a drain port; a dilution chamber having an open end and a centerline; and a cylindrical wash port having a centerline and an opening to the dilution chamber, wherein the centerline of the cylindrical wash port does not intersect with the centerline of the dilution chamber; wherein said probe can be moved into the first chamber through the open end of the first chamber, said probe can be moved into the second chamber through the open end of the second chamber, and said probe can be moved into the dilution chamber through the open end of the dilution chamber. 