A surgical accessory clamp, method of use, and a robotic surgical system including the clamp are disclosed. A surgical accessory may be attached and removed from a manipulator arm during a surgical procedure without requiring the use of an intermediate sterile accessory clamp, thus removing the need for a detachable accessory mount or adaptor that needs cleaning and sterilization and allowing for greater efficiency and cost-effectiveness. The accessory clamp further allows for easy removal and attachment of instruments, tools, or accessories to the robotic surgical system without breach of sterility. In one embodiment, an accessory clamp includes a base for coupling to a distal end of a manipulator arm; two clamp jaws adapted to receive a surgical accessory, each of the clamp jaws rotatably coupled to the base and configured to pivot relative to one another; a sterile drape portion over the two clamp jaws; and a lever portion capable of actuating the two clamp jaws into an open position or a closed position.
Claims We claim: 1. A surgical accessory clamp of a robotic surgical system, the accessory clamp comprising: a base for coupling to a distal end of a manipulator arm; two clamp jaws adapted to receive a surgical accessory, each of the clamp jaws directly and rotatably coupled to the base by respective pivot pins, each of the clamp jaws configured to pivot relative to one another about the respective pivot pins; a sterile drape portion over the two clamp jaws; and a lever portion capable of actuating the two clamp jaws into an open position or a closed position. 2. The surgical accessory clamp of claim 1, wherein the base is capable of being coupled to the manipulator arm by screws, adhesives, or welding material. 3. The surgical accessory clamp of claim 1, wherein the two clamp jaws allow the surgical accessory to rotate along a length-wise axis in the open position. 4. The surgical accessory clamp of claim 1, wherein the two clamp jaws pivot about a single pivot axis or two pivot axes. 5. The surgical accessory clamp of claim 1, wherein the surgical accessory is a cannula defining an inner lumen for receiving a surgical tool and providing access through a percutaneous penetration. 6. The surgical accessory clamp of claim 1, wherein the sterile drape portion is comprised of material selected from the group consisting of HDPE, polyethylene, and polyurethane. 7. The surgical accessory clamp of claim 1, wherein the sterile drape portion is a vacuum formed part of a larger drape or a separate molded portion. 8. The surgical accessory clamp of claim 1, wherein the sterile drape portion includes a reinforcement portion. 9. The surgical accessory clamp of claim 1, wherein the lever portion clamps or releases the surgical accessory by a sliding movement or a pivot movement of a lever handle. 10. The surgical accessory clamp of claim 1, further comprising a printed circuit board for processing information about the surgical accessory received between the two clamp jaws. 11. The surgical accessory clamp of claim 10, wherein the information includes identification of the surgical accessory. 12. A method of clamping a surgical accessory in a robotic surgical system, the method comprising: providing a surgical accessory clamp including: a base for coupling to a distal end of a manipulator arm, two clamp jaws adapted to receive the surgical accessory, each of the clamp jaws directly and rotatably coupled to the base by respective pivot pins, each of the clamp jaws configured to pivot relative to one another about the respective pivot pins, and a lever portion configured to actuate the two clamp jaws into an open position or a closed position; positioning a sterile drape over the two clamp jaws; actuating the accessory clamp into the open position; providing the surgical accessory between the two clamp jaws and over the sterile drape; and actuating the accessory clamp into the closed position. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising identifying the type of surgical accessory provided between the two clamp jaws. 14. The method of claim 12, further comprising rotating the surgical accessory into a desired position between the two clamp jaws. 