The invention relates to a method and a device according to the preambles of claims 1 and 10, and also to the use of a nanopatterned die, a disc with a defined nanopattern and a hard disk drive comprising a disc of this type. In order to propose a more rapidly operating device as well as a corresponding method in which the smallest-possible patterns can be applied to discs, and in order to provide discs, which are produced as cost-effectively as possible, for hard disk drives, said discs having smaller patterns and thus being able to be produced rapidly and cost-effectively, the invention proposes using microcontact printing (.mu.CP) in the production of micropatterned and/or nanopatterned products/substrates of this type.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for producing a nanopattern on an upper side and a lower side of a disc the method comprising the following steps: a) placing the disc on a receiving unit of a device for producing a nanopatterned disc, b) precisely aligning the disc relative to a lower die by means of a separate disc positioning unit in the x-direction, a separate disc positioning unit in the y-direction and a separate disc positioning unit in the z-direction and precisely aligning an upper die relative to the disc or the lower die by means of a separate die positioning unit in the x-direction, a separate die positioning unit in the y-direction and a separate die positioning unit in the z-direction, and c) moving the lower die into contact with the lower side of the disc and the upper die into contact with the upper side of the disc to transfer a defined nanopattern of the nanopatterned lower die onto the lower side of the disc and a defined nanopattern of the nanopatterned upper die onto the upper side of the disc. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the disc is aligned between two opposingly aligned nanopatterned dies. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the alignment of the disc with the dies is controlled by a central control unit, which controls the separate disc positioning units and the separate die positioning units, by means of detection means detecting the relative positions of the disc and the two dies. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the nanopatterned upper die and nanopatterned lower die are polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) dies. 5. A method according to claim 2, wherein the upper and lower dies are aligned parallel to each other and to the disc. 6. A device for producing a nanopattern on an upper side and a lower side of a disc, the device comprised of: a nanopatterned upper die for transferring a defined nanopattern of the nanopatterned upper die onto the upper side of the disc; a nanopatterned lower die for transferring a defined nanopattern of the nanopatterned lower die onto the lower side of the disc; a separate disc positioning unit in the x-direction, a separate disc positioning unit in the y-direction and a separate disc positioning unit in the z-direction, said separate disc positioning units for precisely positioning the disc relative to the lower die associated with the lower side of the disc; and a separate die positioning unit in the x-direction, a separate die positioning unit in the y-direction and a separate die positioning unit in the z-direction, said separate die positioning units for precisely positioning the upper die associated with the upper side of the disc relative to the lower die aligned with the disc. 