An automated storage system for storing large quantities of samples in trays includes a storage compartment, a tray shuttle compartment abutting the storage compartment on one side and a plurality of independent modules on the other side. The modules perform processing of samples that are retrieved from the storage compartment by a tray shuttle, including extraction of selected samples from retrieved source trays and transfer of the selected samples into a separate, destination tray that can be further processed or removed from the system for use. The independent operation of the modules permits handling and processing to be performed simultaneously by different modules while the tray shuttle accesses additional samples within the storage compartment. In one embodiment, a vertical carousel is used to vertically align a desired tray with the tray shuttle, while the tray shuttle operates within a horizontal plane.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An automated system for selectively extracting individual vials from an array of vials in a source tray comprising: an environmentally controlled vial storage compartment, wherein the individual vials are retained within multiple vial arrays disposed in multiple source trays, and depositing the selected vials into one or more vial arrays in a destination tray, wherein each of the source trays and destination tray has an open bottom, the system comprising: a plurality of source trays; a single destination tray; a barcode reader; a tray shuttle for retrieving the plurality of source trays from the vial storage compartment and for returning the plurality of source trays to the vial storage compartment after the selected vials have been removed; a vial selection module comprising: a pick table disposed in an x-y plane for receiving the plurality of source trays from the tray shuttle and supporting the plurality of the source trays and the destination tray within the x-y plane; a pusher disposed below the pick table, the pusher comprising a push rod and a push rod motor for lifting the push rod upward through openings in the source trays and the vial array within which the one or more selected vials are located and for lowering the push rod; a pick head disposed above the pick table, the pick head having a cavity for receiving the one or more selected vials when the push rod is aligned with the cavity and the push rod motor activated to lift the one or more selected vials from the source trays and the vial array within which the one or more selected vials are located by pushing the push rod upward into the cavity, the pick head further comprising an ejector that extends slideably into the cavity for forcing the one or more selected vials from the cavity in response to an eject signal and a sensor disposed above the cavity so that when the one or more selected vials are pushed into the cavity, the sensor generates at least one vial present signal to indicate the presence of the one or more selected vials within the cavity, the pick head cavity further including a plurality of mirrors, each mirror disposed at different angles so that when each mirror intersects the reading beam of the barcode reader, the mirror reflects the reading beam to an area on the one or more selected vials that is not directly visible to the reader; one or more translators for translating the pick head and the pusher within the x-y plane to individually access any vial at any position in the plurality of source trays and any position in the destination tray; and a controller configured to, in response to receiving the at least one vial present signal, direct the one or more translators to move the pick head to a specified location above the destination tray and to generate the eject signal so that the one or more selected vials are deposited into a vial array in the destination tray, the controller being further configured to control the tray shuttle so that additional source trays containing additional vials to be selected are retrieved at the same time that individual vials are being selected from the source trays. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the cavity has a spring disposed therein for releasably retaining the selected vial within the cavity. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the cavity is dimensioned for receiving a plurality of vials and each vial receiving position within the cavity has a corresponding ejector, the pick head further comprises comprising an ejector bar for simultaneously sliding all ejectors to eject ejecting the plurality of vials retained within the cavity. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein each vial receiving position within the cavity has a corresponding sensor. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the sensor corresponding to the last of the vial receiving positions to be filled generates the vial present signal that causes the controller to activate the one or more translators to move the pick head to the destination tray. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the pick head and the pusher each has a separate translator for independent translation within the x-y plane. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the pick head and pusher are translated together within the x-y plane. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the vial is retained within a rack sealed with a sheet seal and the pick head further comprises a seal cutting edge near a lower edge of the cavity, wherein the pusher pushes the one or more vials against the seal cutting edge to cut the seal around the one or more vials before pushing the vial into the cavity. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the pick table supports two source trays and the system manager controls controller is further operable for directing the tray shuttle to remove and replace one of the two source trays while one or more selected individual vials are removed from the other another of the two source trays. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the ejector is raised when the one or more selected vials is lifted into the cavity and the sensor detects the raising of the ejector. 11. An automated method for selecting individual vials from within an environmentally controlled vial storage compartment, wherein the individual vials are retained within an array of vials disposed in multiple source trays within the vial storage compartment, the method comprising: retrieving the plurality of source trays containing at least some of the selected individual vials from the vial storage compartment and transferring the plurality of source trays to a vial selection module; within the vial selection module, supporting the plurality of source trays on a pick table adapted for receiving the plurality of source trays and a single destination tray within a common x-y plane, wherein each of the source trays and the destination trays have an open bottom; (a) translating a pusher disposed below the pick table within the x-y plane to any position within the source trays at which one or more vials is located; (b) before, after or simultaneously with translating the pusher, translating a pick head disposed above the pick table to the position of the selected vial, the pick head having a cavity for receiving the one or more selected vials when the pick head and the pusher are aligned, the pick head cavity further comprising a plurality of mirrors, each mirror disposed at different angles; (c) activating the pusher to pass through the open bottom of the source tray containing the one or more selected vials to lift the one or more selected vials from the source tray and push the one or more selected vials upward into the cavity in the pick head; (d) receiving the one or more selected vials within the cavity; (e) reading a barcode on the one of the one or more selected vials using a barcode reader so that when each mirror intersects the reading beam of the barcode reader, the mirror reflects the reading beam to an area on the one or more selected vials that is not directly visible to the reader; (f) raising an ejector disposed within the cavity, wherein the cavity has a corresponding vial sensor for detecting the presence of the one or more selected vials and generating at least one vial present signal; (g) in response to the at least one vial present signal, translating the pick head to a selected position within the destination tray; (h) ejecting the one or more selected vials into the selected position within the destination tray; repeating steps (a) through (h) until all vials contained within the one or more source trays have been removed from the one or more source trays; if additional vials are contained in additional source trays, retrieving and transferring the additional source trays to the vial selection module and repeating steps (a) through (h) until all vials within the vial storage compartment have been transferred to the destination tray. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the cavity is dimensioned for receiving a plurality of vials, and further comprising repeating the steps of translating the pusher and translating the pick head to the positions of a plurality of selected vials and activating the pusher until the plurality of vials is retained within the cavity. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the ejector comprises one ejector for each of the plurality of vials and the step of ejecting comprises simultaneously electing the plurality of vials into positions within the destination tray. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the sensor comprises one sensor for each ejector and the sensor corresponding to the last elector to be raised generates the vial present signal to translate the pick head to the selected position within the destination tray. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the vial is retained within a rack sealed with a sheet seal and the pick head further comprises a seal cutting edge near a lower edge of the cavity, wherein the pusher pushes the one or more vials against the seal cutting edge to cut the seal around the one or more vials before pushing the vial into the cavity. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the step of retrieving and transferring additional source trays is performed at the same time that steps (a) through (h) are being performed on the one or more source trays. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein a system controller directs the tray shuttle to remove and replace one of the source trays while one or more selected individual vials are removed from another of source trays. 