Disclosed herein is a holder for biological sample containers such as well plates. The holder comprises a flat vacuum bed surrounded by a seal. A container is placed within the seal and a vacuum is applied, pressing and flattening the lower surface of the sample container against the flat vacuum bed. Samples in all portions of the container may then be imaged without the need to refocus on each portion of the container. For imaging, a sample in a well can be illuminated by a beam of light arranged so that a part or all of the sample is illuminated by direct rays that have not passed through the well plate. The beam is redirected to other parts of the well if a single illumination does not cover the whole well, so that the sample to be imaged using a series of partial images.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of imaging biological samples in wells of a well plate, the method comprising: defining a path across the well plate that includes each part of each well containing a sample to be imaged; moving the well plate with respect to an optical beam source operable to generate a beam of light to illuminate the sample in a well and an imaging camera operable to record an image of the sample of a well when illuminated so as to bring each part of each well in the path in turn into a position where the sample can be illuminated and imaged, the movement being continuous from a start to an end of the path; operating the optical beam source and the imaging camera to illuminate and image the sample in a well wherein only one part of each well is illuminated and imaged in each operation; and further operating the optical beam source and the imaging camera to illuminate and to image further part or parts of the well when they are in the position where they can be illuminated and imaged; wherein the well plate is arranged in a vacuum holder comprising a vacuum bed with a planar surface so that a lower surface of the well plate is flattened by vacuum pressure against the planar surface of the vacuum bed, thereby to ensure that the wells of the well plate are co-planar. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein operating the imaging camera comprises opening a shutter of the imaging camera for a time period .DELTA.t.sub.c and operating the optical beam source comprises generating the beam of light for a time period .DELTA.t.sub.l, where .DELTA.t.sub.c>.DELTA.t.sub.l and .DELTA.t.sub.l lies within .DELTA.t.sub.c. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein .DELTA.t.sub.c is at least 2 or 3 orders of magnitude greater than .DELTA.t.sub.l. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the movement of the well plate has a substantially constant speed and the optical beam source and the imaging camera are operated at a substantially constant and equal repetition rate. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the path is traversed with a fixed focus of the imaging camera when recording the images from the wells along the path. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the path is traversed with each of a plurality of fixed focuses of the imaging camera focused at different depths down the wells, so that multiple sets of images from the wells along each path are recorded corresponding to multiple well depths. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the beam of light has a wavelength selected to excite a dye of interest with which the sample has been marked. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the dye is selected from the group consisting of: a protein, a nucleic acid, a lipid, a sugar, a metabolite, and a drug. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the image is recorded by selectively collecting light of wavelengths associated with fluorescence, auto-fluorescence or Raman emission from the dye of interest. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the sample is at least one cell. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the dye is contained in the at least one cell. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one cell is contained in a medium which is marked with the dye whose optical activity is modified by secretion from the at least one cell. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the secretion is a protein, nucleic acid, lipid, sugar, metabolite or drug. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the dye is an inherent part of the at least one cell. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one cell is an animal cell. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one animal cell expresses a biological molecule of interest. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the biological molecule of interest is selected from the group consisting of: a peptide, a polypeptide, a nucleic acid, a lipid, a metabolyte, a glycosylated or unglycosylated protein, and a biopharmaceutical protein. 18. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one cell comprises a protein, nucleic acid, lipid, sugar or metabolite. 19. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one cell secretes an agent which is detected by white light, infra-red, or Raman spectroscopy. 20. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one cell secretes an agent which is detected by addition to the at least one cell a compound that is detected by autofluorescence. 21. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one cell contains an agent detected by addition to the at least one cell a compound that is detected by fluorescence, white light, infra-red, Raman spectroscopy, or autofluorescence. 22. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one cell secretes an agent detected by addition to the at least one cell a compound that is detected by fluorescence, white light, infra-red, Raman spectroscopy, or autofluorescence. 23. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one cell has a membrane which contains an agent which is detected by addition to the at least one cell a compound that is detected by fluorescence, white light, infra-red, Raman spectroscopy, or autofluorescence. 24. Apparatus for imaging biological samples in wells of a well plate, the apparatus comprising: an optical beam source operable to generate a beam of light for illuminating a sample in a well of a well plate; an imaging camera operable to record an image of the sample when illuminated; and a holder for holding a well plate comprising wells containing samples to be imaged, the holder being operable to move the well plate with respect to the optical beam source and the imaging camera to bring each part of each well in a path defined across the well plate that includes each part of each well containing a sample to be imaged in turn into a position where the sample can be illuminated and imaged, the movement being continuous from a start to an end of the path; the optical beam source and the imaging camera being further operable to illuminate and image the sample in a well when each part of the well in the path is in the position where it can be illuminated and imaged, and being further operable to illuminate and image only a part of each well in each operation, and being further operable to illuminate a further part or parts of the well in further operations; the holder comprising: a vacuum bed having a planar surface for receiving a lower surface of a well plate; a perimeter portion comprising a seal surrounding the vacuum bed, the seal being dimensioned to receive a lower perimeter edge of a well plate; and an exhaust outlet for evacuating a volume defined by the vacuum bed, the perimeter portion and well plate received on the seal so that the lower surface of the well plate is flattened against the planar surface of the vacuum bed. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the imaging camera is operable by opening a shutter of the imaging camera for a time period .DELTA.t.sub.c and optical beam source is operable to generate the beam of light for a time period .DELTA.t.sub.l where .DELTA.t.sub.c>.DELTA.t.sub.l and .DELTA.t.sub.l lies within .DELTA.t.sub.c. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein .DELTA.t.sub.c is at least 2 or 3 orders of magnitude greater than .DELTA.t.sub.l. 27. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the holder is operable to move the well plate at a substantially constant speed and the optical beam source and the imaging camera are operable to illuminate and image at a substantially constant and equal repetition rate. 28. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the imaging camera comprises a focus facility operable to focus the imaging camera on a sample in a well of a well plate held by the holder. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, further comprising a controller operable to: relatively position the imaging camera and a well plate held by the holder so that the imaging camera is in a position for imaging one well of the well plate; operate the focus facility to determine a focal length to focus the imaging camera on a sample in the one well; and lock the imaging camera at the focal length determined by the focus facility during imaging of samples along the path of movement. 30. The apparatus of claim 28, further comprising a controller operable to: relatively position the imaging camera and a well plate held by the holder so that the imaging camera is in a position for imaging one well of the well plate; operate the focus facility to determine multiple focal lengths to focus the imaging camera in the one well; and lock the imaging camera at each of the multiple focal lengths determined by the focus facility while imaging samples along the path of movement, so that the path is traversed repeatedly at each focal length and multiple sets of images from the wells along each path are recorded corresponding to multiple well depths. 