An electrical connector pick-up station for use in feeding electrical connectors from a magazine into an electrical connector transfer nest, for transfer to a work station, comprises a cable supporting the magazine, a seat for the nest having guide rollers for guiding the nest onto the seat, and a feed ram which is movable under the base of the magazine to insert a connector into the nest. The ram is provided with an end for engaging the connector to insert it, and a guide plate extending beyond that end for guiding the connector into a predetermined position in the nest, in which position it is releasably latched in the nest. Where the connectors are provided with mating covers, the guide plate acts as a separator which extends between the connector and its cover so that these are inserted into the nest in properly spaced relationship.
Claims We claim: 1. An electrical connector pick-up station comprising: a table; guide means on the table for receiving an electrical connector transfer nest to be loaded with an electrical connector; means for engaging the nest to retain it in the guide means and simultaneously disconnecting the nest from a robot arm by which the nest is carried; a storage magazine for accommodating a stack of electrical connectors, mounted on the table and having a passage therebeneath; an electrical connector insertion ram having a connector engaging end and being slidably mounted on the table for movement along a path extending through said passage towards said guide means in a connector feed direction; a unit for driving the ram along said path to move the connector engaging end thereof through the passage in the magazine to drive a connector therefrom into the nest when the latter is received in the guide means; and means for guiding the connector into a predetermined position in the nest. 2. A pick-up station as claimed in claim 1, wherein the ram comprises a pair of spaced arms and a connector guide plate fixed between the arms and projecting therebeyond in the connector feed direction. 3. A pick-up station as claimed in claim 1, wherein the magazine is adapted to accommodate a stack of covers for mating with the connectors, arranged in parallel spaced relationship with the stack of connectors, the ram having a cover engaging end and being provided with a guide member for interposition between a cover and a connector in the stacks thereby to feed the connector and the cover in spaced relationship into the nest, as the ram is driven by the drive unit, when the nest is received in the guide means. 4. A pick-up station as claimed in claim 1, wherein the means for engaging the nest in the guide means comprises a projection connected to the table for movement into a bore in the nest and drive means for moving the projection into and out of the bore. 5. A pick-up station as claimed in claim 1, wherein the engaging and disconnecting means comprise a plate connected to the table for movement towards and away from the nest when such is received between the guide means, a first pin on the plate for engaging in a corresponding bore in the nest, a second pin on the plate for operating means for releasing the nest from said robot arm and drive means for moving the plate towards and away from the nest. 6. An electrical connector pick-up station comprising: a table; guide means on the table for receiving an electrical connector transfer nest to be loaded with an electrical connector; means for engaging the nest in the guide means; a storage magazine for accommodating a stack of electrical connectors, mounted on the table and having a passage therebeneath; an electrical connector insertion ram having a connector engaging end and being slidably mounted on the table for movement along a path extending through said passage towards said guide means; a unit for driving the ram along said path to move the connector engaging end thereof through the passage in the magazine to drive a connector therefrom into the nest when the latter is received in the guide means; means for guiding the connector into a predetermined position in the nest; and said nest guide means comprising a pair of guide rollers, for receiving the leading end of the nest between them when the nest is inserted between the guide means in a direction parallel to the table, a pair of guide blocks spaced from the guide rollers in the direction of the magazine for subsequently engaging the leading end of the nest between them, and a nest guide and hold down plate connected to the table but spaced therefrom. 7. An electrical connector pick-up station, comprising: an elongate table; a seat at one end of the table provided with guide means for receiving an electrical connector transfer nest; means for releasably retaining the nest on the seat; a storage magazine mounted on the table adjacent to the seat for accommodating electrical connector bodies and covers therefor; a passage extending between the magazine and the table between a side of the magazine remote from the seat and a side of the magazine adjacent to the seat; an insertion ram comprising a cover engaging portion facing the seat and a connector engaging portion facing the seat, the ram being slidably mounted on the table for movement along a path extending through said passage and towards said seat; a connector and cover guiding member extending centrally of said seat for reception between said portions of the ram; a drive unit for driving the ram along said path to move the ram through the passage simultaneously to feed from the magazine, a connector body and a cover into the nest in spaced relationship, when the nest is retained on the seat by the retaining means. 8. A pick-up station as claimed in claim 7, further comprising means provided between the magazine and said guiding member, for separating a connector body and a connector cover driven from the magazine by the ram in partially mated relationship. 9. A pick-up station as claimed in claim 8, wherein the separating means comprises a pair of blocks drivable towards the seat by the ram, a connector body receiving through channel in one block, a connector cover receiving through channel in the other block, the said channels facing one another, means for guiding the blocks along divergent paths in a direction towards the seat to separate said connector body and said connector cover and to allow the ram to drive them from the channels into the nest when such is retained on said seat, and means for returning the blocks along said divergent paths. 10. A pick-up station as claimed in claim 9, wherein the block guiding means comprises a plurality of dowels provided in a housing containing the blocks, and grooves in the blocks receiving the dowels. 11. A pick-up station as claimed in claim 7, wherein said guiding member is fixed to said seat for reception in said nest. 12. A pick-up station as claimed in claim 11, wherein said ram is of T-shaped cross section, having a transverse arm which is slotted to receive said guiding member. 13. A pick-up station as claimed in claim 7, wherein the table is provided with an actuating member movable by means of a projection on the ram to engage means on the nest when such is retained on the seat, to cause a connector body inserted into the nest by means of the ram to be releasably latched in the nest. 