In a homopolar, switched reluctance, or interior permanent magnet motor, formed rotor laminations are employed to reduce eddy current losses in the pole faces and body of the rotor. The homopolar and switched reluctance motor lamination is comprised of a magnetic portion having a plurality of pole pieces extending generally radially outward from the core portion and forming a plurality of interpole spaces. Non-magnetic, high resistance segments are bonded between the pole pieces to minimize windage losses and increase strength. The non-magnetic segments may be thinner in the axial direction than the magnetic portion to prevent contact between stack laminations. Additionally, a gap may be left between the interior core portion and the non-magnetic segment to facilitate use of automated welding techniques. In the interior permanent magnet motor lamination, the non-magnetic segments perform the function of circumferential bridges, with or without restraining ligaments, to increase the rotor strength and speed capability and increase specific torque.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composite disk lamination for a rotor of a magnetic machine selected from the group consisting of homopolar and switched reluctance machines, comprising: a magnetic portion of uniform thickness and including an interior core portion with a plurality of pole pieces extended outwardly therefrom in a generally radial direction, each of said pole pieces having a pair of edges extending outward in a generally straight line and forming an interpole space between each adjacent pair of said pole pieces; a plurality of non-magnetic segments having a uniform thickness, a separate one of said segments being situated, respectively, within each of said interpole spaces, respectively, and abutting one edge of each pole piece of said adjacent pair, each of the abutting edges of the non-magnetic segments, respectively, being parallel to a corresponding one of the edges of the pole pieces, respectively, and being rigidly attached thereto so as to provide said disk lamination with high structural strength without increasing windage losses in said rotor; and each of said non-magnetic segments further being formed in a generally trapezoidal shape having two non-parallel edges abutting opposite edges of the adjacent pole pieces, respectively, and having an inner edge facing an outer circumferential edge of said interior core portion and having an outer edge forming a contiguous circumferential edge with outer edges of said pole pieces. 2. The composite disk lamination of claim 1 wherein the axial thickness of said plurality of non-magnetic segments is less than the axial thickness of the magnetic portion, such that when a plurality of disk laminations are stacked together, the axially-aligned non-magnetic segments are electrically non-contacting. 3. The disk lamination of claim 1 wherein said inner edge of said non-magnetic segment is spaced apart from the outer edge of said interior core portion to form a gap between said interior core portion and said non-magnetic segment. 4. The disk lamination of claim 1 wherein said magnetic portion is rigidly attached to said non-magnetic segments by welding. 5. A rotor for a magnetic machine selected from the group consisting of homopolar and switched reluctance machines, comprising: a rotor shaft; and an axial, aligned stack of the composite disk laminations of claim 1 mounted on said shaft. 6. A composite disk lamination for a rotor of a permanent magnet machine comprising: an interior core portion and a disk periphery, said interior core portion having a plurality of magnet slots capable of being radially aligned so that an axial stack of disk laminations defines a plurality of passageways through the stack in an axial direction; a plurality of circumferential pole pieces situated at the disk periphery and separated from said interior core portion by said magnet slots; and a plurality of circumferential high tensile strength non-magnetic segments connecting said circumferential pole pieces to each other wherein each of said non-magnetic segments is bonded to adjacent edges of said pole pieces for increasing the strength of the disk lamination, the axial thickness of said non-magnetic segments being less than the axial thickness of said pole pieces and said interior core portion. 7. The disk lamination of claim 6 wherein said non-magnetic segments are rigidly attached to said pole pieces by welding. 8. The disk lamination of claim 6 wherein said non-magnetic segments also are connected to said interior core portion. 9. The disk lamination of claim 8 wherein said non-magnetic segments are rigidly attached to said pole pieces and to said interior core portion by welding. 10. A rotor for permanent magnet machine, comprising: a rotor shaft; an axial, aligned stack of composite disk laminations, each lamination of said stack comprising the composite disk lamination of claim 8, said stack being mounted on said shaft; and a magnet situated axially within each of said passageways directly axially through said stack, respectively. 