An optical attenuation measurement system is provided for obtaining signals proportional to movement of a system to which it is attached. The measurement system includes a light source positioned within a length of conduit in which the light emitted will produce multiple reflections. A fiber optic cable is slidably disposed within the conduit to transmit the radiation emitted from the light source gathered thereby. The relative displacement of the fiber optic cable to the light source produces a signal as a function of this displacement which is converted into electrical signals by a light detecting element at the opposite end of the cable. The system is particularly useful to form an interactive device for control of a remote intelligent machine, robot or the like. For example, the system may be used on an operator's hand to detect movement of the hand and fingers for controlling a robotic hand which will mimick the operator's hand movements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An optical detection system comprising: a light emitting means positioned in a length of conduit so as to emit light into said conduit, a light transmission means having a first end slidably positioned in said conduit to receive light emitted by said light emitting means, a light detecting means coupled to a second end of said light transmission means to receive light propagated through said light transmission means, wherein the relative longitudinal distance between said light emitting means and said first end of said light transmission means varies within said conduit to yield an indication of the variable to be detected. 2. An optical detection system as in claim 1, wherein, said light emitting means is a LED having a predetermined wavelength of emitted light, and said light detecting means is substantially matched to said wavelength. 3. An optical detection system as in claim 1, wherein, said light detecting means is a photoresistor outputting variable resistance proportional to the amount of light incident upon it. 4. An optical detection system as in claim 1, wherein, said conduit has an inner reflective surface to produce multiple reflections of light emitted from said light emitting means and incident upon said inner surface thereby linearizing the output of the system with variation of said relative distance between said light emitting means and said light transmission means. 5. An optical detection system as in claim 4, wherein, light from said light emitting means is diffused so as to be directed in part toward said inner reflective surface of said conduit. 6. An optical detection system as in claim 1, wherein, said light transmission means is a length of fiber optic cable. 7. An optical detection system as in claim 6, wherein, said fiber optic cable includes a second conduit portion at said first end which is inserted into said conduit, said second conduit portion facilitating sliding of said first end in said conduit and maintaining alignment of said cable within said conduit. 8. An optical detection system as in claim 7, wherein, said second conduit portion fits closely with said conduit to prevent any appreciable amount of external light from entering said conduit. 9. An optical detection system as in claim 1, wherein, said light emitting means is sealed within said conduit to prevent external light from entering said conduit, and said light detecting means is sealed with said second end of said light transmission means to prevent entrance of external light incident upon said light detecting means. 10. An optical detection system as in claim 1, wherein, said conduit is secured to a system, the movement of which is to be measured, said second end of said light transmission means is secured to said system such that movement of said system results in relative movement between said first end of said light transmission means and said light emitting means positioned within said conduit. 11. An optical detection system as in claim 10, wherein, said relative movement results in changing the length of a gap formed between said first end of said light transmission means and said light emitting means thereby varying the amount of light reaching said light transmission means from said light emitting means as a function of the variable to be measured. 12. An optical detection system as in claim 10, wherein, said system is a finger of a human operator such that movement of said finger will generate signals from said light detecting means proportional to finger movement to control an intelligent machine, robot or the like. 13. An optical detection system as in claim 12, wherein, said movement of said finger is flexion, abduction or adduction and the distance around a subtended arc at a joint of said finger or a linear distance may be measured during movement of said finger. 14. An optical detection system as in claim 1, further comprising, an optical control system for processing signals received from said light detecting means to develop control signals proportional to a variable to be measured. 15. An optical detection system as in claim 14, wherein, said optical control system comprises a resistive network having a plurality of potentiometers to control the ramp and offset of said signals received from said light detecting means. 16. An optical detection system as in claim 14, wherein, said optical control system comprises a bridge circuit coupled to a differential amplifier to boost and shape signals received from said light detecting means. 17. An optical detection system as in claim 1, wherein, signals received from said light detecting means may be voltage, current or resistance signals which are transmitted to an optical control system for processing of said signals to develop control signals for the control of an intelligent machine, robot or the like. 18. An optical detection system as in claim 17, wherein, said signals received from said light detecting means are digitized and interfaced with compatible control systems. 19. An optical detection system as in claim 1, wherein, said conduit is effectively sealed by means to prevent the ingress of the outside atmosphere. 20. A detection system to measure movement of a system to which is attached comprising: light emitting means; light detecting means; light coupling means having first and second ends between said light detecting means for propagating light from said light emitting means to said light detecting means; a length of conduit attached to the system having said light emitting means disposed therein so as to emit light into said conduit, said first end of said light coupling means being slidably positioned in said conduit to receive the emitted light from said light emitting means, wherein the longitudinal distance between said light emitting means and said first end of said light coupling means varies within said conduit with movement of the system acting to vary the amount of light reaching said light detecting means through said light coupling means as a function of the variable to be measured. 