A pressing apparatus is provided for depositing a sliver on a surface with a first segment and at least one second segment that can respectively roll along the surface. The pressing apparatus furthermore features an assembly frame for holding the segments. The first segment features a first rolling element and a suspension apparatus and the second segment features a second rolling element. The suspension apparatus is designed for attaching the first segment to the assembly frame and for rotatably mounting the first rolling element on the assembly frame. The suspension apparatus is designed for allowing a relative movement between the first rolling element and the second rolling element in a radial direction of the first rolling element.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pressing and depositing system for depositing a sliver on a surface, with the system comprising: a pressing apparatus for depositing the sliver on the surface, the pressing apparatus comprising: a first segment comprising a first rolling element and configured to roll along the surface; a second segment comprising a second rolling element and configured to roll along the surface; an assembly frame configured to hold the first segment and the second segment and comprising an opening in a radial direction; a suspension apparatus that is configured to attach the first segment to the assembly frame, and rotatably mount the first rolling element on the assembly frame, the suspension apparatus comprising: a spring assembly configured such that a relative movement between the first rolling element and the second rolling element is realized in the radial direction of the first rolling element due to an action by the spring assembly, the spring assembly comprising: a first sleeve at least partially received in the opening of the assembly frame that defines a first hollow space, with the first sleeve guided by the opening in the radial direction; a first spring accommodated in the first hollow space of the first sleeve and the opening; a second sleeve at least partially received in the opening of the assembly frame that defines a second hollow space, with the second sleeve guided by the opening in the radial direction, the second sleeve having a first stopping face that cooperates with a second stopping face of the assembly frame to limit movement of the first rolling element relative to the assembly frame; a second spring accommodated in the second hollow space of the sleeve and the opening; and a robot comprising a robotic arm, the robotic arm configured to: receive the pressing apparatus; and move the pressing apparatus along the surface. 2. The pressing and depositing system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to heating the sliver to approximately 420.degree. C. 3. A method for depositing a sliver on a surface, comprising: attaching a first segment with a first rolling element to an assembly frame; attaching a second segment with a second rolling element to the assembly frame; attaching a spring assembly to the first segment and the assembly frame in such a way that a relative movement between the first rolling element and the second rolling element can be realized in a radial direction of the first rolling element by an action of the spring assembly; inserting a sleeve in an opening defined in the assembly frame so that the sleeve is at least partially accommodated in the opening in the radial direction, the sleeve guided by the opening in the radial direction; accommodating a spring of the spring assembly in the hollow space formed by the sleeve and the opening; rotatably mounting the first rolling element and the second rolling element on the assembly frame; moving the first rolling element in a direction along the surface; and carrying out the relative movement between the first rolling element and the second rolling element in the radial direction of the first rolling element. 4. The method of claim 3, furthermore comprising: heating the sliver that is pre-impregnated with a matrix to a temperature in excess of approximately 420.degree. C. 5. The method of claim 3, furthermore comprising: depositing the sliver on a shell segment of an aircraft fuselage. 6. A pressing apparatus for depositing a sliver on a surface, comprising: a first segment comprising a first rolling element and configured to roll along the surface; a second segment comprising a second rolling element and configured to roll along the surface; an assembly frame configured to hold the first segment and the second segment and comprising an opening in a radial direction; and a suspension apparatus that is configured to attach the first segment to the assembly frame, and rotatably mount the first rolling element on the assembly frame, the suspension apparatus comprising: a spring assembly configured such that a relative movement between the first rolling element and the second rolling element is realized in the radial direction of the first rolling element due to an action by the spring assembly, the spring assembly comprising: a sleeve at least partially received in the opening of the assembly frame that defines a hollow space, the sleeve guided by the opening in the radial direction; and a spring accommodated in the hollow space of the sleeve and the opening. 7. The pressing apparatus of claim 6, wherein the suspension apparatus of the first segment comprises a first suspension apparatus with a first spring assembly, wherein a first relative movement between the first rolling element and the assembly frame can be realized in a first radial direction of the first rolling element by a first action of the first spring assembly, wherein the second segment comprises a second suspension apparatus that is configured to attach the second segment to the assembly frame and further configured to rotatably mount the second rolling element on the assembly frame, and wherein the second suspension apparatus comprises a second spring assembly such that a second relative movement between the second rolling element and the assembly frame is realized in a second radial direction of the second rolling element by the action of the spring assembly. 8. The pressing apparatus of claim 7, wherein the first spring assembly comprises a first spring and a second spring that lies opposite of the first spring that are referred to the assembly frame and compressible in the radial direction. 9. The pressing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the suspension apparatus comprises a bearing that is configured to rotatably mount the first rolling element on the assembly frame. 10. The pressing apparatus of claim 9, wherein the bearing is a ball bearing. 11. The pressing apparatus of claim 9, furthermore comprising: a bearing sliding ring; an elastic material configured to cover the bearing sliding ring and provide an adaptability of the pressing apparatus to changes in a curvature of the surface. 12. The pressing apparatus of claim 9, wherein the bearing is realized with a lip seal that is configured to limit contamination. 13. The pressing apparatus of claim 12, wherein the bearing is realized with the lip seal that is configured to limit contamination of the surface. 14. The pressing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the suspension apparatus is configured to allow a first relative movement of the first rolling element on an order of approximately .+-.five percent of a diameter of the first rolling element. 