Vending machines, automated retail stores, and retail displays with computer controlled, item-based lighting that produces variable visual effects in conjunction with actual or potential vends to provide an enhanced vending experience. Offered products are stored within display tubes that are arranged in orderly geometric arrays. RGB lighting through a plurality of LED banks within polygonal circuit boards associate with each display tube are controlled by a computer activation system that senses the presence of a customer, and the selection of a vend. Combinations of differently colored LED's are computer controlled on a per product basis to artistically illuminate available products and assist customers. Pre-programmed lighting sequences can switch LED off and on, vary their intensity, and alter resultant colors. A touch screen computer responds to user inputs for selections and transactions. Sensors detect the presence of potential customers, even without a customer input, to vary a display and attract mode.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vending display for vending machines, retail displays, and automated retail stores, the display comprising: a lighting display module adapted to be secured to a console that comprises a supply of selectable items to be vended and means for effectuating vending transactions, the module comprising: a rigid display case that provides a housing; an array of primary product display tubes disposed within the housing containing products offered for vending, the display tubes visibly associated with the console and arranged in a geometric pattern of rows and columns; an array of lighting circuit boards for illuminating each display tube with colored light, each circuit board comprising a plurality of lights of different colors, the circuit boards daisy chained together forming an addressable network, and each board comprising an addressable network address; a plurality of touchable product viewing areas, one viewing area associated with each product display tube; sensor means associated with each product viewing area for detecting customer selections; a computer for activating and controlling the display module to respond to said sensors and initiate varying lighting effects; software for controlling said computer; and, a network interface controller driven by said computer for activating combinations of lights on selected lighting circuit boards to illuminate specific product display tubes. 2. The vending display as defined in claim 1 wherein the circuit board plurality of lights comprises banks of red, green and blue LEDs that can be separately activated by said network interface. 3. The vending display as defined in claim 2 wherein said network interface comprises a DMX controller for driving said network interface with digital signals for activating combinations of lights on said lighting circuit boards through said daisy chain. 4. The vending display as defined in claim 3 further comprising: means proximate said primary display tubes for diffusing light; white showcase lights for illuminating products contained within said primary display tubes; and, a touch screen for enabling customer selection of products. 5. The vending display as defined in claim 3 further comprising: a plurality of secondary display tubes of a smaller diameter than the primary display tubes, the secondary display tubes disposed in a regular geometric pattern between adjacent primary display tubes; a plurality of lighting circuit boards for illuminating said secondary display tubes in response to said network interface controller. 6. The vending display as defined in claim 5 wherein: the console comprises; a customizable, lighted logo area; a touch screen for enabling customer selection of products; a payment system; and, said computer comprises: means for controlling a product dispenser; and, means for recognizing touch sensor inputs. 7. The vending display as defined in claim 3 wherein said software executes a user lighting routine comprising: a step for recognizing user input from either the touch screen, a touched product display area, or a motion or proximity sensor; and, steps for activating said lighting circuit boards. 8. The vending display as defined in claim 7 wherein said steps for activating said lighting circuit boards comprises steps for: establishing a data set file storage system defining customizable lighting events, the lighting events defining selected colors, lighting intensity, and lighting fade timing; establishing data storage for mapping lighting circuit boards associated with each display tube; determining a selected item ID and corresponding light mapping datacode from said data storage step in response to a user input; looking up lighting characteristics in a database query for a lighting event identified in said determining step; converting identified lighting events to a DMX protocol; wherein the network interface controller executes the lighting event and activates particular lighting circuit boards. 9. A vending display for vending machines, retail displays, and/or automated retail stores that comprise a supply of selectable items to be vended, the display comprising: a lighting display module in the form of a door coupled to said vending machine, retail display, or automated retail store, the display module comprising means for effectuating vending transactions, the display module comprising: a rigid display case that provides a housing; an array of primary product display tubes disposed within the housing containing products offered for vending, the display tubes visibly associated with the display case and arranged in a geometric pattern of orderly rows and columns; an array of primary lighting circuit boards for illuminating each primary display tube with colored light, each primary circuit board comprising a plurality of red, green and blue LEDs, the circuit boards daisy chained together forming an addressable network, each board comprising an addressable network address, and wherein each circuit board is sized to approximately match dimensions of said primary display tubes; a plurality of touchable product viewing areas, one viewing area associated with each primary product display tube; sensor means associated with each product viewing area for detecting customer selections; a computer for activating and controlling the display module to respond to said sensors and initiate varying lighting effects; software for controlling said computer, the software recognizing the selection of products to be vended and associates predefined lighting events with products to be vended; and, a DMX controller driven by said computer for addressing and activating combinations of LEDs on selected lighting circuit boards to illuminate specific product display tubes by implementing said predefined lighting events within said primary lighting tubes associated with selected products. 10. The vending display as defined in claim 9 further comprising: a plurality of secondary display tubes of a smaller diameter than the primary display tubes, the secondary display tubes disposed in a regular geometric pattern between adjacent primary display tubes; and, a plurality of secondary lighting circuit boards for illuminating said secondary display tubes in response to said DMX controller, each secondary circuit board comprising a plurality of red, green and blue LEDs, the secondary circuit boards daisy chained together within said addressable network, each secondary board comprising an addressable network address, and wherein each secondary circuit board is sized to approximately match dimensions of said secondary display tubes. 11. The vending display as defined in claim 9 wherein said software executes a user lighting routine comprising: a step for recognizing user input from either a touch screen, a touched product display area, or a motion or proximity sensor; and, steps for activating said lighting circuit boards. 12. The vending display as defined in claim 11 wherein said steps for activating said lighting circuit boards comprises steps for: establishing a data set file storage system defining customizable lighting events, the lighting events defining selected colors, lighting intensity, and lighting fade timing; establishing data storage for mapping lighting circuit boards associated with each display tube; determining a selected item ID and corresponding light mapping datacode from said data storage step in response to a user input; looking up lighting characteristics in a database query for a lighting event identified in said determining step; converting identified lighting events to a DMX protocol; wherein the network interface controller executes the lighting event and activates particular lighting circuit boards. 13. In a vending machine comprising an upright cabinet, a supply of selectable items to be vended, a control column for customer operation of said vending machine, and means for physically discharging selected products for a vend, the improvement comprising: a lighting display module in the form of a door coupled to said vending machine, retail display, or automated retail store, the display module comprising means for effectuating vending transactions, the display module comprising: a rigid display case that provides a housing; an array of primary product display tubes disposed within the housing containing products offered for vending, the display tubes visibly associated with the display case and arranged in a geometric pattern of orderly rows and columns; an array of primary lighting circuit boards for illuminating each primary display tube with colored light, each primary circuit board comprising a plurality of red, green and blue LEDs, the circuit boards daisy chained together forming an addressable network, each board comprising an addressable network address, and wherein each circuit board is sized to approximately match dimensions of said primary display tubes; a plurality of touchable product viewing areas, one viewing area associated with each primary product display tube; sensor means associated with each product viewing area for detecting customer selections; a computer for activating and controlling the display module to respond to said sensors and initiate varying lighting effects; software for controlling said computer, the software recognizing the selection of products to be vended and associates predefined lighting events with products to be vended; and, a DMX controller driven by said computer for addressing and activating combinations of LEDs on selected lighting circuit boards to illuminate specific product display tubes by implementing said predefined lighting events within said primary lighting tubes associated with selected products. 14. The improvement as defined in claim 13 further comprising: means proximate said primary display tubes for diffusing light; white showcase lights for illuminating products contained within said primary display tubes; and, a touch screen for enabling customer selection of products. 15. The improvement as defined in claim 14 wherein: the column comprises; a customizable, lighted logo area; a touch screen for enabling customer selection of products; a payment system; and, said computer comprises: means for controlling a product dispenser; and, means for recognizing customer inputs. 16. The improvement as defined in claim 13 further comprising: a plurality of secondary display tubes of a smaller diameter than the primary display tubes, the secondary display tubes disposed in a regular geometric pattern between adjacent primary display tubes; and, a plurality of secondary lighting circuit boards for illuminating said secondary display tubes in response to said DMX controller, each secondary circuit board comprising a plurality of red, green and blue LEDs, the secondary circuit boards daisy chained together within said addressable network, each secondary board comprising an addressable network address, and wherein each secondary circuit board is sized to approximately match dimensions of said secondary display tubes. 17. The improvement as defined in claim 16 wherein said software executes a user lighting routine comprising: a step for recognizing user input from either a touch screen, a touched product display area, or a motion or proximity sensor; and, steps for activating said lighting circuit boards. 18. The improvement as defined in claim 17 wherein said steps for activating said lighting circuit boards comprises steps for: establishing a data set file storage system defining customizable lighting events, the lighting events defining selected colors, lighting intensity, and lighting fade timing; establishing data storage for mapping lighting circuit boards associated with each display tube; determining a selected item ID and corresponding light mapping datacode from said data storage step in response to a user input; looking up lighting characteristics in a database query for a lighting event identified in said determining step; converting identified lighting events to a DMX protocol; wherein the network interface controller executes the lighting event and activates particular lighting circuit boards. 19. The improvement as defined in claim 18 further comprising: means proximate said primary display tubes for diffusing light; white showcase lights for illuminating products contained within said primary display tubes; and, a touch screen for enabling customer selection of products. 20. The improvement as defined in claim 19 wherein: the column comprises; a customizable, lighted logo area; a touch screen; a payment system; and, said computer comprises: means for controlling a product dispenser; and, means for recognizing customer inputs. 