A system and method enable an autonomous machine such as an indoor humanoid robot to systematically process user commands and respond to situations. The method captures distributed knowledge from human volunteers, referred to as "commonsense knowledge." The commonsense knowledge comprises classes such as steps for tasks, responses to situations, and locations and uses of objects. Filtering refines the commonsense knowledge into useful class rules. A second level of rules referred to as meta-rules performs reasoning by responding to user commands or observed situations, orchestrating the class rules and generating a sequence of task steps. A task sequencer processes the generated task steps and drives the mechanical systems of the autonomous machine.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for enabling an autonomous machine to perform a task in an environment, the method comprising: receiving data collected by a distributed capture technique, said data comprising at least one class of knowledge associated with the task; automatically processing said at least one class of knowledge associated with the task to produce one or more categories of class rules, wherein said processing comprises filtering and extracting the at least one class of knowledge, and wherein the class rules comprise specific relationships within the at least one class of knowledge; and formulating a set of meta-rules that extract information from two or more categories of class rules to orchestrate an application of said class rules within the environment, each meta-rule identifying information from two or more categories of class rules; responsive to a first category of class rules missing information associated with the task, applying a meta-rule to retrieve the missing information associated with the task from a second category of class rules. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing said class rules and said meta-rules. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the autonomous machine is a humanoid robot. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of receiving data comprises receiving data from multiple persons or from multiple locations. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said distributed capture technique comprises prompting a person to respond to a query, the query regarding said class of knowledge. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said class of knowledge comprises at least one of: action-object pairs, task steps, responses to situations, causes and effects, alternate action-object pairs, uses of objects, likely uses of objects, locations of objects, likely locations of objects, synonym replacement, and verb tense replacement. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the environment is an indoor environment. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said meta-rules have a natural-language form. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving at least one of a task command and a perceived situation within the environment; applying said meta-rules to orchestrate said application of said class rules in response to said task command or said perceived situation; applying said meta-rules to generate a set of task steps for performing the task; and sequencing said set of task steps to orchestrate an operation of the autonomous machine. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said sequencing step comprises: receiving a first task step of said set of task steps, said first task step comprising an action and an object; determining said object of said first task step; determining a current location of said object; determining a current location of the autonomous machine; directing the autonomous machine to execute said first task step at said current location of said object; waiting for a fact related to said execution of said first task step to be recognized by the autonomous machine; and directing the autonomous machine to execute a subsequent task step of said set of task steps after said fact is recognized. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting information from two or more categories of class rules comprises extracting information related to performing at least one task step. 12. An apparatus for an autonomous machine to perform a task in an environment, the apparatus comprising: an input module receiving data collected by a distributed capture technique, said data comprising at least one class of knowledge associated with the task; and a processor module coupled to the input module and to a memory device; the memory device having computer program instructions embodied thereon to cause the processor module to implement a method for enabling the autonomous machine to perform the task in the environment, the method comprising the steps of: automatically processing said at least one class of knowledge associated with the task to produce one or more categories of class rules , wherein said processing comprises filtering and extracting the at least one class of knowledge, and wherein the class rules comprise specific relationships within the at least one class of knowledge, and formulating a set of meta-rules that extract information from two or more categories of class rules to orchestrate an application of said class rules within the environment, each meta-rule identifying information from two or more categories of class rules; responsive to a first category of class rules missing information associated with the task, applying a meta-rule to retrieve the missing details information associated with the task from a second category of class rules. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the autonomous machine is a humanoid robot. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said class of knowledge comprises at least one of: action-object pairs, task steps, responses to situations, causes and effects, alternate action-object pairs, uses of objects, likely uses of objects, locations of objects, likely locations of objects, synonym replacement, and verb tense replacement. 15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein: said input module further receives at least one of a task command and a perceived situation within the environment; and said processor module further: applies said meta-rules to orchestrate said application of said class rules in response to said task command or said perceived situation, applies said meta-rules to generate a set of task steps for performing the task, and sequences said set of task steps to orchestrate an operation of the autonomous machine. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said sequencing step comprises: receiving a first task step of said set of task steps, said first task step comprising an action and an object; determining said object of said first task step; determining a current location of said object; determining a current location of the autonomous machine; directing the autonomous machine to execute said first task step substantially at said current location of said object; waiting for a fact related to said execution of said first task step to be recognized by the autonomous machine; and directing the autonomous machine to execute a subsequent task step of said set of task steps after said fact is recognized. 17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein extracting information from two or more categories of class rules comprises extracting information related to performing at least one task step. 18. An apparatus for an autonomous machine to perform a task in an environment, the apparatus comprising: means to receive data collected by a distributed capture technique, said data comprising at least one class of knowledge associated with the task; means to automatically process said at least one class of knowledge associated with the task to produce one or more categories of class rules, wherein said processing comprises filtering and extracting the at least one class of knowledge, and wherein the class rules comprise specific relationships within the at least one class of knowledge; and means to formulate a set of meta-rules that extract information from two or more categories of class rules to orchestrate an application of said class rules within the environment, each meta-rule identifying information from two or more categories of class rules; means to, responsive to a first category of class rules missing information associated with the task, apply a meta-rule to retrieve the missing information associated with the task from a second category of class rules. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the autonomous machine is a humanoid robot. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said class of knowledge comprises at least one of: action-object pairs, task steps, responses to situations, causes and effects, alternate action-object pairs, uses of objects, likely uses of objects, locations of objects, likely locations of objects, synonym replacement, and verb tense replacement. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising: means to receive at least one of a task command and a perceived situation within the environment; means to apply said meta-rules to orchestrate said application of said class rules in response to said task command or said perceived situation; means to apply said meta-rules to generate a set of task steps for performing the task; and means to sequence said set of task steps to orchestrate an operation of the autonomous machine. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said means for sequencing comprises: means to receive a first task step of said set of task steps, said first task step comprising an action and an object; means to determine said object of said first task step; means to determine a current location of said object; means to determine a current location of the autonomous machine; means to direct the autonomous machine to execute said first task step at said current location of said object; means to wait for a fact related to said execution of said first task step to be recognized by the autonomous machine; and means to direct the autonomous machine to execute a subsequent task step of said set of task steps after said fact is recognized. 23. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein extracting information from two or more categories of class rules comprises extracting information related to performing at least one task step. 24. A computer program product, comprising a memory device having computer program instructions embodied thereon to cause a computer processor to implement a method for enabling an autonomous machine to perform a task in an environment, the method comprising: receiving data collected by a distributed capture technique, said data comprising at least one class of knowledge associated with the task; automatically processing said at least one class of knowledge associated with the task to produce one or more categories of class rules , wherein said processing comprises filtering and extracting the at least one class of knowledge, and wherein the class rules comprise specific relationships within the at least one class of knowledge; and formulating a set of meta-rules that extract information from two or more categories of class rules to orchestrate an application of said class rules within the environment, each meta-rule identifying information from two or more categories of class rules; responsive to a first category of class rules missing information associated with the task, applying a meta-rule to retrieve the missing information associated with the task from a second category of class rules. 25. The computer program product of claim 24, wherein the autonomous machine is a humanoid robot. 26. The computer program product of claim 24, wherein said class of knowledge comprises at least one of: action-object pairs, task steps, responses to situations, causes and effects, alternate action-object pairs, uses of objects, likely uses of objects, locations of objects, likely locations of objects, synonym replacement, and verb tense replacement. 27. The computer program product of claim 24, wherein said method further comprises the steps of: receiving at least one of a task command and a perceived situation within the environment; applying said meta-rules to orchestrate said application of said class rules in response to said task command or said perceived situation; applying said meta-rules to generate a set of task steps for performing the task; and sequencing said set of task steps to orchestrate an operation of the autonomous machine. 28. The computer program product of claim 27, wherein said sequencing step comprises: receiving a first task step of said set of task steps, said first task step comprising an action and an object; determining said object of said first task step; determining a current location of said object; determining a current location of the autonomous machine; directing the autonomous machine to execute said first task step at said current location of said object; waiting for a fact related to said execution of said first task step to be recognized by the autonomous machine; and directing the autonomous machine to execute a subsequent task step of said set of task steps after said fact is recognized. 29. The computer program product of claim 24, wherein extracting information from two or more categories of class rules comprises extracting information related to performing at least one task step. 