An industrial robot is able to automatically set the operating conditions thereof depending on a position of installation. The motion of a robot unit is input and controlled by a robot control unit. A first data storage portion of the robot control unit is provided with a storage region preliminarily storing (a) data about installation positions of the robot unit with respect to a reference installation position of the same robot unit, and (b) date about operating conditions with respect to the positions of installation. When data about an installation position upon the use of the robot is input to the robot control unit, the data of the operating conditions, in response to the input data of the position of installation, is read from the first data storage unit, and is automatically set in a second data storage unit to control the motion of the robot unit in accordance with the operating conditions set in the second data storage unit.
Claims We claim: 1. An industrial robot able to automatically set operating conditions in accordance with an installation position of the industrial robot comprising: a robot unit provided with at least movable elements each movable element movable about an articulatory axis, and a base element to be fixedly installed at a site at which the industrial robot is to be used; a robot control unit provided with a first data storage unit for storing basic control data for robot operation, a second data storage unit for storing control data externally input, and a control function unit for controlling motion of said movable elements based on said control data stored in said first and second data storage units; a predetermined storage region provided in said first data storage unit for storing (a) data about various installation positions of said robot unit with respect to a predetermined reference installation position of said robot unit, and (b) data about operating conditions for various installation positions of said robot unit; an input unit for providing said control function unit of said robot control unit with data indicating an installation position of said robot unit during use of said robot unit; and a setting unit for reading out the operation conditions, corresponding to the data indicating the installation position of the robot unit provided by said input unit, from said predetermined storage region of said first data storage unit and for automatically setting externally input operating conditions in said second data storage unit of said robot control unit. 2. An industrial robot according to claim 1, wherein said data about various installation positions of said robot unit are data of angles of inclination with reference to a reference position consisting of a position where said robot unit is installed on a horizontal ground floor, and wherein said operating conditions are data of an extent of motions and speed of motions of each movable element of said robot unit about each articulatory axis. 3. An industrial robot according to claim 1, wherein said first data storage unit comprises a ROM and said second data storage unit comprises a RAM, respectively. 4. An industrial robot according to claim 1, wherein said input unit comprises an operating panel provided for said robot control unit. 5. An industrial robot according to claim 1, wherein said input unit comprises an operating panel externally connected to said robot control unit. 6. An industrial robot according to claim 1, wherein said movable elements of said robot unit include a plurality of articulated robotic arms. 7. An industrial robot including a robot unit provided with at least movable elements each movable element movable about an articulatory axis, and a base element to be fixedly installed at a site at which the industrial robot is to be used, and means for automatically setting operating conditions in accordance with an installation position of the industrial robot, wherein said automatic setting means comprise: a robot control unit provided with a first data storage unit for storing basic control data for robot operation, a second data storage unit for storing control data externally input, and a control function unit for controlling motion of said movable elements based on said control data stored in said first and second data storage units; a predetermined storage region provided in said first data storage unit for storing (a) data about various installation positions of said robot unit with respect to a predetermined reference installation position of said robot unit, and (b) data about operating conditions for various installation positions of said robot unit; an input unit for providing said control function unit of said robot control unit with data indicating an installation position of said robot unit during use of said robot unit; and a setting unit for reading out the operating conditions, corresponding to the data indicating the installation position of the robot unit provided by said input unit, from said predetermined storage region of said first data storage unit and for automatically setting externally input operating conditions in said second data storage unit of said robot control unit. 8. An industrial robot according to claim 7, wherein said data about various installation positions of said robot unit are data of angles of inclination with reference to a reference position consisting of a position where said robot unit is installed on a horizontal ground floor, and wherein said operating conditions are data of an extent of motions and speed of motions of each movable element of said robot unit about each articulatory axis. 9. An industrial robot according to claim 7, wherein said first data storage unit comprises a ROM and said second data storage unit comprises a RAM, respectively. 10. An industrial robot according to claim 7, wherein said input unit comprises an operating panel provided for said robot control unit. 11. An industrial robot according to claim 7, wherein said input unit comprises an operating panel externally connected to said robot control unit. 12. An industrial robot according to claim 7, wherein said movable elements of said robot unit include a plurality of articulated robot arms. 