In a wide area communications network such as the Internet, a public server and an associated database store and make available to a private server personal information relating to an individuals emotional or some other mental or physical state. The private server includes functionality to interpret the personal information it receives or gathers from the public server in order to identify at least one reaction instruction which can be used by a multimedia communications device to convey to a user the state of an individual by generating a human perceivable reaction which can be playing multimedia content in combination with movement if the multimedia communications device is a robot.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for conveying an emotional or physical state of a first individual to at least one other individual through an interactive, multimedia robotic device connected to a communications network comprising: a processing device connected to the network identifying and storing information relating to the state of the first individual that is available on the network; the processing device interpreting the stored state information relating to the first individual to identify at least one robotic device reaction instruction stored on the processing device; the processing device transmitting the at least one robotic device reaction instruction to the interactive, multimedia robotic device; and the interactive, multimedia robotic device receiving the at least one robotic device reaction instruction and using it to execute one or more human perceivable actions that conveys the emotional or physical state of the first individual to at least one other individual proximate to the robotic device, wherein the human perceivable actions include the robotic device playing audio, video and robotic device movement that corresponds to the emotional or physical state of the first individual. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the interactive, multimedia robotic device is one of a mobile robotic device, a mobile phone, a general purpose multimedia computational device, and a multimedia toy. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the information relating to the first individual is comprised of at least one of the first individuals name, age, picture, gender, height, weight, occupation, marital status and the first individuals preferences. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the first individuals preferences are comprised of one or more of relationship objective, likes, dislikes, favorite sports team, favorite music, favorite activity, family life status and private life status. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of interpreting the received and stored information comprises: identifying content of interest contained in the received and stored information; filtering the content of interest to identify new content and storing the new content; employing the new content to identify a robotic device reaction instruction; and creating a robotic device reaction instruction message. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the communications network is one of a public and a private network. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one robotic device reaction instruction is an electronic message that can be employed by the interactive, multimedia robotic device to generate a human perceivable action. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the human perceivable action performed by the interactive, multimedia robotic device conveys the state of the first individual to the at least one other individual. 9. A method for conveying an emotional or physical state of a first individual to at least one other individual through an interactive, multimedia robotic device connected to a communications network comprising: receiving and storing at the interactive, multimedia robotic device information relating to the emotional or physical state of the first individual; the interactive, multimedia robotic device interpreting the received information relating to the first individual to identify at least one robotic device reaction instruction stored on the robotic device; and the interactive, multimedia robotic device using the at least one identified robotic device reaction instruction to execute one or more human perceivable actions that convey the emotional or physical state of the first individual to the other individual proximate to the robotic device, wherein the human perceivable actions include the robotic device playing audio, video and robotic device movement corresponding to the emotional or physical state of the first individual. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the interactive, multimedia robotic device is one of a mobile robotic device, a mobile phone, a general purpose multimedia computational device, and a multimedia toy. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the information relating to a first individual is received over one of a communications network and the environment proximate to interactive, multimedia robotic device. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the information relating to the first individual is comprised of at least one of the first individuals name, age, picture, sex, height, weight, occupation, marital status and the first individuals preferences. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the first individuals preferences are comprised of one or more of relationship objective, likes, dislikes, favorite sports team, favorite music, favorite activity, family life status and private life status. 14. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of interpreting the received and stored information comprises: identifying content of interest contained in the received and stored information; filtering the content of interest to identify new content and storing the new content; employing the new content to identify a reaction instruction; and creating a robotic device reaction instruction message. 15. The method of claim 9 wherein the communications network is one of a public and a private network. 16. The method of claim 9 wherein the at least one robotic device reaction instruction is an electronic message that can be executed by the interactive multimedia communications device to convey a human perceivable action. 17. The method of claim 9 wherein the human perceivable action executed by the interactive, multimedia robotic device conveys the state of the first individual to the at least one other individual. 18. A system for conveying an emotional or physical state of a first individual to at least one other individual through an interactive, multimedia robotic device comprising; a public server connected to a communications network; an interactive, multimedia robotic device connected to the communications network, and a private server connected to the communications network comprising: a web crawler for gathering information relating to the first individual; a recognition module for identifying content of interest contained in the information gathered by the web crawler; a filter module for identifying new content of interest; a reaction module for identifying at least one robotic device reaction instruction and for generating a reaction instruction message; and a communications module for sending the at least one robotic device reaction instruction message to the interactive, multimedia robotic device which uses the instruction to execute one or more human perceivable actions that conveys the emotional or physical state of the first individual to the other individual, who is proximate to the robotic device, wherein the human perceivable actions include the robotic device playing audio, video and robotic device movement corresponding to the emotional or physical state of the first individual. 19. The system of claim 18 wherein the interactive, multimedia robotic device is one of a mobile robotic device, a mobile phone, a general purpose multimedia computational device and a multimedia toy. 20. The system of claim 18 wherein the information relating to the first individual is comprised of at least one of the first individuals name, age, picture, sex, height, weight, occupation, marital status and the first individuals preferences. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein the first individuals preferences are comprised of one or more of relationship objective, likes, dislikes, favorite sports team, favorite music, favorite activity, family life status and private life status. 22. The system of claim 18 wherein the communications network is one of a public and a private network. 23. The system of claim 18 wherein the at least one robotic device reaction instruction is an electronic message that can be employed by the interactive, multimedia robotic device to execute a human perceivable action. 24. The system of claim 18 wherein the human perceivable action executed by the interactive, multimedia robotic device conveys the emotional or physical state of the first individual to the at least one other individual proximate to the robotic device. 