A handling robot for a current-consuming appliance (e.g. a welding head) comprises a pivotal stand with a first arm which is rotatably journalled in the stand and a second arm which is rotatably journalled in the first arm. The second arm has a sleeve which is journalled in the first arm. In said sleeve, a portion with a holder for the appliance is rotatably journalled. From a transformer, the supply current for the appliance is conducted to a rotatable contact device and to two preferably concentric tubular electrical conductors through the rotatable portion. The tubular conductors are utilized as conduits for cooling water.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A current-carrying handling robot comprising a base, a stand supported on said base so as to turn about a first axis, a first arm rotatably journalled on said stand so as to turn thereon about a second axis, a second arm rotatably journalled on said first arm so as to turn thereon about a third axis, a support member for a current-consuming appliance mounted on said second arm, said support member including a tubular unit which is rotatably journalled to said second arm so as to be rotatable about a fourth axis which extends along the longitudinal dimension of said second arm and is fixed in relation to this arm, said unit having tubular concentric conductors for carrying electrical current to an appliance connected to said support member, a welding transformer mounted on said second arm, electrical connection means connected between said transformer and said conductors of said unit, said electrical connection means including axially fixed and axially movable contacts rotatable in relation to each other, means to press said axially movable contacts against said axially fixed contacts together when current flow thereacross is required, and means to separate said axially movable contacts from said axially fixed contacts to allow relative rotary movement therebetween. 2. A robot according to claim 1, wherein said axially fixed contacts are mechanically directly connected to the tubular conductors. 3. A robot according to claim 1, wherein said conductors of said unit are fixedly disposed within said unit. 4. A robot according to claim 1, wherein said second arm is tubular. 5. A robot according to claim 1, wherein means are provided for supplying cooling water between said two concentric tubes. 