An air cleaner and method of making same, the air cleaner comprises: a one piece, moulded housing, including domed first and second outer portions integrally formed about a common circumferential first edge, defining therein a chamber, an inlet and an outlet extending therefrom in communication with the chamber. A panel filter is secured within the housing, during the moulding thereof, at the common edge for dividing the chamber into first and second aerodynamically shaped compartments in communication with the inlet and outlet respectively.
Claims I claim: 1. An air cleaner comprising: a single piece blow moulded housing comprising a central chamber and an inlet and an outlet communicated thereto, an air filter element dividing the central chamber into first and second compartments in communication with the inlet and secured to the housing during the moulding thereof. 2. The air cleaner as defined in claim 1 wherein the filter element includes an active area for filtering air and a non-active area comprising a circumferential edge sealingly engaged by a circumferential edge of the housing. 3. The device as defined in claim 2 wherein the outlet is elevated relative to the inlet. 4. The device as defined in claim 3 wherein the inlet extends substantially axially from the housing and wherein the filter element is disposed at an angle relative to the incoming air flow. 5. The device as defined in claim 4 wherein a downstream surface of the filter element is covered by a fibrous material to prevent large dirt particles from flowing into upstream areas of the filter element and wherein such particles tend to fall therefrom and become lodged in a narrow downstream end of the second compartment. 6. The air cleaner as defined in claim 2 wherein the housing is aerodynamically profiled to reduce turbulance and increase the uniformity of flow through the element wherein the cross-section area across the first and second compartments is substantial constant along the axial dimension of the filter element. 7. The air cleaner as defined in claim 2 wherein the cross-section flow area of the second housing compartment decreases from the inlet to a first end, proximate the outlet and the cross-section of the first housing compartment increases from a first end, proximate the inlet to the outlet. 8. The air cleaner as defined in claim 7 wherein the housing comprises accurately shaped upper and lower portions integrally joined about an extending edge of the filter element. 9. The air cleaner as defined in claim 7 further including an orifice positioned within the inlet. 10. An air cleaner comprising: a one piece, moulded housing, including domed first and second member integrally formed about a common circumferential first joint or edge, defining therein a chamber, an inlet and an outlet extending therefrom in communication with the chamber, filter means secured within the housing, during the moulding thereof, at the common edge for dividing the chamber into first and second compartments in communication with the inlet and outlet respectively. 11. The device as defined in claim 10 wherein the cross-sectional area, of various cross-sections, taken perpendicularly to a longitudinal axis are substantially equal. 12. The device as defined in claim 10 wherein the height of the first compartment, measured from the inside of the first housing member to a plane containing the first edge increases from the inlet to the outlet and the height of the second compartment, measured from the inside of the second housing member to the plane, decreases from the inlet to the outlet. 13. The device as defined in claim 12 wherein the plane of the first edge is generally angled relative to the inlet and outlet. 14. The device as defined in claim 13 wherein the outlet is positioned above the inlet such that air received at the inlet will flow up through the filter element and exit through the outlet. 15. The device as defined in claim 10 wherein the filter is rectangular including a thin circumferential second edge thereabout secured within the first edge, the first edge comprising a first pair of opposing first and second sides and a second pair of opposed sides. 16. The device as defined first in claim 15 wherein the second housing member comprises end surface, defining the inlet, connected integrally to a first side of the first edge, an outer portion, forward of the first end surface and tapering downwardly from proximate the inlet to the second side and downwardly toward the third and fourth sides; the first housing portion comprising a second end surface, defining the outlet, connected integrally to the second side, a top surface, rearward of the second end, tapering from proximate the outlet to the first side and downward toward the third and fourth sides. 17. The device as defined in claim 16 wherein the inlet includes an orifice. 18. A method of making an air cleaner comprising a one-piece hollow housing and a filter element secured therein within a blow moulding machine comprising shaped, movable moulds, comprising the steps of: (a) securing a preformed filter element in a preferred orientation, (b) forming an open ended cylindrically shaped parison of a mouldable material, (c) closing moulds about the parison and filter element, (d) blowing the parison into mould cavities, one of which is located about the filter element thereby securing the filter element in place. 19. The method as defined in claim 18 wherein the filter element includes a thin circumferential edge and wherein the moulds define a circumferential edge cavity and wherein the step of closing includes forming the parison tightly about the circumferential edge. 20. The method as defined in claim 19 wherein the circumferential edge includes a tab extending therefrom, and wherein the moulding machine includes a clamping mechanism positioned within the parison wherein the step of orienting includes inserting the tab into the clamping mechanism and orienting the filter element relative to the moulds and wherein the step of forming includes forming the parison about the circumferential edge with the exception of the extending tab. 21. The method as defined in claim 20 further including the steps of removing the now formed air cleaner from the machine and removing the portion of the tab which extends therefrom. 22. The method as defined in claim 19 wherein the machine includes a movable arm movable relative to the parison and a filter holder extending therefrom, including means for engaging and orienting the filter element at a preferred orientation relative to the moulds, wherein the step of orienting includes securing the filter element to the filter holder. 