A system for fluid transport is provided where a quantity of fluid is held in a reservoir. A droplet generator is employed to generate droplets from the fluid, for example a nozzle-based system or a nozzleless system such as an acoustic ejection system. A generated droplet has a trajectory whereby it arrives at a target. A circuit is used to modify one or more characteristics of the generated droplet in a way which increases the likelihood that the droplet will not splash or bounce when it arrives at the target. The circuit may in different embodiments control the speed of the droplet or the Weber number of the droplet. The circuit may create an electric field in an area of space where the droplet passes. The circuit may charge the droplet by causing it to contact ions.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for transporting at least one droplet of a fluid from at least one reservoir to a target, the method comprising: generating acoustic radiation with an acoustic power level; ejecting a droplet from a first fluid within a reservoir by the generated acoustic radiation; transporting the ejected droplet at a droplet velocity towards a target; applying a predetermined electric field to the droplet and the target; generating a dipole within the droplet by the applied electric field; and attracting the droplet to the target by an interaction between the dipole and the target; wherein the process for applying a predetermined electric field to the droplet and the target is performed without substantially affecting the droplet velocity; wherein the process for attracting the droplet to the target includes increasing, by the applied predetermined electric field, a likelihood that the droplet does not splash or bounce on arriving at the target; wherein a first direction of the applied electric field and a second direction of the droplet velocity are opposite to each other. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the process for transporting the ejected droplet at a droplet velocity towards a target includes transporting the ejected droplet upwards towards the target. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the target is a second fluid on a substrate. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the process for increasing, by the applied predetermined electric field, a likelihood that the droplet does not splash or bounce on arriving at the target includes increasing, by the applied predetermined electric field, a likelihood that the droplet coalesces with the second fluid on the substrate. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the process for applying a predetermined electric field to the droplet and the target affects the droplet velocity by no more than 10% in magnitude. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the process for applying a predetermined electric field to the droplet and the target affects the droplet velocity by about 1% in magnitude. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the first direction of the applied electric field and the second direction of the droplet velocity are directly opposite to each other. 