A mobile robot is provided with a fluid conduit which is connected to an on board fluid-responsive turbine. An on board electric generator and/or hydraulic pump is connected to the mechanical output of the turbine such that power for the robot is generated when the turbine rotates due to the flow of fluid through the conduit. The fluid may then be expelled through a nozzle and used as an extinguishant, a propellant or a coolant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot comprising: a fluid conduit, means connected to said fluid conduit for generating electric power in response to fluid flow through said conduit, said generating means located on board said mobile robot, means responsive to said power generating means for operating said mobile robot and means on board said mobile robot for producing hydraulic pressure of an hydraulic fluid, said hydraulic fluid operating on board hydraulic actuators. 2. The mobile robot according to claim 1 wherein said electric power generating means comprises an on board turbine integrated with said fluid conduit for producing electric power for said mobile robot and wherein said means for producing hydraulic pressure comprises an hydraulic pump connected to said turbine. 3. The mobile robot according to claim 2 wherein said on board turbine is connected to an on board electric generator for producing electric power to operate said robot, said generator operating in response to rotation of said turbine. 4. The mobile robot according to claim 2 wherein said fluid conduit further comprises a fluid outlet located after said on board turbine such that said fluid operates said turbine before reaching said outlet. 5. The mobile robot according to claim 4 wherein said fluid is a fire extinguishant and said outlet is a fire fighting type nozzle, said nozzle positioned such that said flowing extinguishant operates said turbine to power said robot before said extinguishant is forced out of said nozzle to extinguish a fire. 6. The mobile robot according to claim 2 further comprising means for diverting said flowing fluid along a first and second path, said first path directing said fluid to operate said turbine, said second path directing said fluid to an outlet. 7. The mobile robot according to claim 6 further comprising means for controlling the amount of flowing fluid diverted along said first and second path, thereby controlling the amount of power said turbine develops from said flowing fluid. 8. The mobile robot according to claim 1 further comprising means for storing electric power generated by said electric power generating means. 