A method and system for treating self-adaptive motion of a jointed body part of a patient, the jointed body part has at least three rotatable body sections interconnected by at least two joints, by collecting data regarding limb movement displaying representations of the data in real time, and modifying current device function based upon such data so as to meet predefined therapeutic treatment parameters with regard to device-actuated movement needs of the limb regarding device-actuated movement, and/or assist limb rotation.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for self-adaptive motion treatment of a jointed body part of a patient, said jointed body part having at least three rotatable body sections interconnected by at least two joints, the method comprising: a) obtaining an exoskeleton multi-joint orthotic system having more than 2 joints, at least one is a shoulder joint and 3 external actuating devices; b) attaching said external actuating device physically to said jointed body part, said device including at least one actuator for applying force to generate or oppose movement of said jointed body part; at least one sensor arrangement for sensing a force generated by said jointed body part relative to said external actuating device; and, at least one sensor arrangement for sensing a position of said jointed body part; such that a first axis of device-rotation, which is an axis about which said body sections rotate in relation to each other, is placed upon a first axis of body-part-rotation; and at least a second axis of device-rotation is placed upon at least a second axis of body-part-rotation; c) activating said external actuating device during repeated performance of a set of motions including rotating the body sections about said axes of device-rotation so as to interact with said jointed body part according to a certain set of treatment parameters; d) during repetitions of said set of motions, collecting and storing data relating to the force generated by said jointed body part relative to said external actuating device and to the position of the jointed body part; e) analyzing said data by use of a data processor according to a predefined set of analysis rules; and, f) during said activating, modifying, responsive to said data analysis, at least one parameter of said set of treatment parameters during an uninterrupted treatment session, thereby modifying the interaction of said external actuating device with said jointed body part during at least one repetition of said set of motions based at least in part on data collected during previous repetitions of said set of motions. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said rotating of said sections about said axis of device-rotation is implemented as rotation about said first and second axes of device-rotation, and said first and second axes of device-rotation are perpendicular to each other. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said rotating about said first and second axes of device-rotation is implemented as substantially simultaneous rotation about said first and second axes of device-rotation. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said activating further includes using a control unit in electronic communication with said data processor, said control unit further being in control communication with said external actuating device. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising activating hydraulic actuators associated with said external actuating device to achieve said rotation, said control communication therefore being fluid communication. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said certain set of treatment parameters relate to said activating being in a rehabilitative mode. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said certain set of treatment parameters related to said activating device being in an assistive mode. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said analysis is included in a decision making process of a treatment team. 9. A system for treating self-adaptive motion of a jointed body part of a patient, said jointed body part having at least three rotatable body sections interconnected by at least two joints, the system comprising: a) an exoskeleton multi-joint wear orthotic system having more than 2 joints, at least one is a shoulder joint and 3 external actuating devices; b) means for attaching said external actuating device physically to said jointed body part, said device including at least one actuator for applying force to generate or oppose movement of said jointed body part; at least one sensor arrangement for sensing a force generated by said jointed body part relative to said external actuating device; and, at least one sensor arrangement for sensing a position of said jointed body part; such that a first axis of device-rotation, which is an axis about which said body sections rotate in relation to each other, is placed upon a first axis of body-part-rotation; and at least a second axis of device-rotation is placed upon at least a second axis of body-part-rotation; c) means for activating said external actuating device during repeated performance of a set of motions including rotating the body parts about said axes of body-part-rotation so as to interact with said jointed body part according to a certain set of treatment parameters; d) means for repetitively collecting and storing data relating to the force generated by said jointed body part relative to said external actuating device and to the position of the jointed body part; e) means for analyzing said data by use of a data processor according to a predefined set of analysis rules; and, f) means for modifying, responsive to said data analysis, at least one parameter of said set of treatment parameters during activating an uninterrupted treatment session, thereby modifying the interaction of said external actuating device with said jointed body part during at least one repetition of said set of motions based at least in part on data collected during previous repetitions of said set of motions. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said first and second axes of device-rotation are perpendicular to each other. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein said rotating about said two axes of device-rotation is implemented as substantially simultaneous rotation about said two axes of device-rotation. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein said data collection means include an encoder. 13. The system of claim 9, further comprising a control unit in electronic communication with said data processor, and in control communication with said external actuating device. 14. The system according to claim 13, further comprising hydraulic actuators associated with said external actuating device, said hydraulic actuators configured so as to rotate said sections about said axis device-rotation, said control communication therefore being fluid communication. 