A comprehensive system is disclosed for the pattern forming and loading of packaged bakery products into pallet trays or baskets (herein collectively referred to as baskets) for delivery to stores. An arrangement of basket and product conveyors delivers product packages to a pick-up station and baskets to loading positions. A programmable robotic loader is fitted with a special gripper adapted for the pick-up of groups of the packaged goods by applying suction to the product packages and physically laterally confining the suspended bags. The programmed loader picks up product groups and places them in a programmed, optimal pattern in the shipping basket. The special gripper mechanism enables the robotic loader to execute rapid translational and rotational motions in transferring product to the shipping baskets in a desired orientation. A unique form of continuously running, free roller conveyor delivers the product packages to the pick-up station, while isolating soft, compressible products from forward pressure from the conveyor. A novel arrangement of basket conveyors enables a single primary basket infeed conveyor to reliably supply a plurality of product loading stations with empty baskets for product loading. The primary conveyor is associated with a plurality of secondary conveyor sections, to which baskets are diverted on demand without significantly holding up the forward flow of empty baskets to other stations.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for basket loading of packaged bakery products, which comprises (a) a primary basket conveyor line for supplying empty shipping baskets, (b) a plurality of product conveyors associated with said basket conveyor line for feeding pre-packaged products to a plurality of product pick-up stations adjacent said basket conveyor line, (c) a plurality of robotic loaders one associated with each of said product pick-up stations for engaging product packages and transferring said packages to a basket positioned at a loading position, (d) said loaders being arranged in a series along the path of said primary conveyor line, (e) each of said loaders having associated therewith a secondary conveyor section, (f) each said secondary conveyor section and the loader associated therewith forming a load station, (g) said primary conveyor line and each of said secondary conveyor sections including conveyor drive elements having a low-friction drive relationship with baskets supported thereon, (h) clamping means at each load station for engaging and holding stationary a basket positioned for loading at said station, while the conveyor section associated therewith continues to operate, (i) basket feed control means associated with each of said secondary conveyor sections for detecting when a secondary conveyor section should be supplied with one or more additional baskets, (j) means associated with each of said secondary conveyor sections and responsive to said basket feed control means for selectively diverting a basket from said primary conveyor line onto a secondary conveyor section, and (k) control means responsive to the filling of a basket with product at any loading position to effect release of the clamping means holding the basket at said loading position, whereby said filled basket is immediately removed by the conveyor section associated therewith. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, further characterized by, (a) said primary conveyor line comprising a infeed section, for supplying empty baskets from a source thereof, and one or more intermediate conveyor sections driven in synchronism with said infeed section, and (b) said means for diverting including belt conveyor means interposed between said infeed conveyor section and an intermediate conveyor section and driven separately therefrom, (c) said belt conveyor means being adapted to have an effective gripping contact with said shipping baskets. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1, further characterized by, (a) each of the secondary conveyor sections comprising separate, independently driven conveyor sections, and (b) basket diverting means associated with at least each the secondary conveyor sections upstream of the last such conveyor section and operative, when actuated, to divert a basket from said primary conveyor line for supply to the associated upstream secondary conveyor section, (c) control means associated with each said upstream secondary conveyor sections for actuating the basket diverting means associated therewith. (d) said control means including means for sensing the absence of a basket at a predetermined position associated with said secondary conveyor section for actuating said diverting means and directing a basket onto said secondary conveyor section. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3, further characterized by, (a) said secondary conveyor sections each comprising a load section, a staging section and a reservoir section, in sequence in a downstream-to-upstream direction, (b) basket sensing means in said reservoir section for sensing the absence of a basket at a predetermined position in said reservoir section and responsive thereto to actuate the basket diverting means for said conveyor section. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1, further characterized by, (a) each of said secondary conveyor sections comprising a discharge conveyor means for delivering filled baskets to a remote location. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1, further characterized by, (a) said secondary conveyor sections each comprising load sections, staging sections and reservoir sections, in sequence in a downstream-to-upstream direction, (b) load stop and clamping means at said load section for stopping and gripping a basket at a predetermined loading position, (c) first basket sensing means at said loading position responsive to a basket being conveyed to said load station to actuate said stop and clamping means for positioning said basket accurately at said loading position and for gripping said basket in said loading position, (d) stage clamp means at said staging section for gripping a basket positioned therein at a predetermined staging position, (e) second basket sensing means at said staging section for sensing the presence of a basket at said staging position for a predetermined time interval indicating a stopped basket to actuate stage clamp means for gripping the basket in said staging position, (f) said basket feed control means comprising third basket sensing means at said reservoir section for sensing the absence of a basket at a predetermined upstream location of said reservoir section and, in response thereto, causing a basket to be diverted from said primary conveyor line for said secondary conveyor section. 7. Apparatus according to claim 5, further characterized by, (a) said control means responsive to the filling of a basket being operative to effect timed, sequential release of said load clamp followed by said stage clamp. 