A heater/mixer device is disclosed for use with laboratory vials, test tubes, or similar containers containing liquids. The heater/mixer includes a chamber formed in a block of material such as aluminum, with an electric heating element in contact with the block. The vial fits loosely in the chamber. Compressed air passes into the chamber through an inlet in the block, so that the vial is revolved by a circular air flow in a vortex fashion. This revolving motion creates a vortex in the liquid inside the vial, and so mixes the liquid. The air circulation also improves heat transfer from the block to the vial.
Claims I claim: 1. A mixer for mixing contents of a container comprising: a chamber for freely holding the container; a heat conductive path to the chamber; means for providing heat to the heat conductive path; an inlet in the chamber for admitting a flow of fluid to the chamber; and means for providing a flow of fluid to the inlet so as to revolve the container in a vortex of the flow of fluid and carry heat from the heat conductive path to the container. 2. The mixer of claim 1, wherein the inlet is located at an inner surface of the chamber so as to admit the flow of fluid in a direction tangential to a surface of the chamber. 3. The mixer of claim 1, wherein the chamber is substantially cylindrical in shape. 4. The mixer of claim 1, further comprising cushioning means formed on a surface of the chamber for cushioning the container in the chamber. 5. The mixer of claim 4, wherein the cushioning means comprises an O-ring. 6. The mixer of claim 5, further comprising a robot arm for placing the container in the chamber. 7. The mixer of claim 1, wherein the flow of fluid includes compressed air. 8. The mixer of claim 1, wherein the chamber comprises a bottom surface and further comprising a bearing formed on the bottom surface of the chamber, so as to reduce friction between the container and the bottom surface of the chamber. 9. The mixer of claim 1, wherein the chamber is formed in a body of aluminum. 10. The mixer of claim 1, further comprising a robot arm for placing the container in the chamber. 11. The mixer of claim 1, further comprising at least one additional chamber for holding a second container. 12. A method for mixing a liquid in a container comprising the steps of: providing a chamber; placing the container holding the liquid in the chamber; and providing a stream of heated gas to the chamber so as to revolve the container in the stream of gas inside the chamber to mix the liquid and heat the container. 13. The mixer of claim 12, further comprising the step of providing a cushion on a surface of the chamber for cushioning the container. 14. The mixer of claim 12, wherein the container does not spin on its own axis. 15. The mixer of claim 1, wherein the container does not spin on its own axis. 16. A mixer for mixing contents of a container comprising: a chamber for holding the container; an inlet in the chamber for admitting a flow of fluid to the chamber; cushioning means formed on a surface of the chamber for cushioning the container in the chamber; and means for providing a flow of fluid to the inlet so as to revolve the container. 