An improved robotic contractile device having, besides general industrial and other-wages applicability for automation and other purposes, particularly attractive utility in and for prosthetic appliances and which is characterizable in being able to function in a way remarkably analogous to that of biological muscle is structurally made up of an expandable conduit which is contractible on fluid inflation with a plurality of longitudinally-directed filaments peripherally-secured thereabout that are connectable with an object to be moved or displaced as a result of the contractability experienced upon inflation of said conduit; there being associated means in the device for introducing and exhausting fluid under pressure to the interior of the said conduit in order to inflate same to effectuate its motive contraction action and deflate it to its normal rest condition of maximum or intermediate extension. The way of using the device takes advantage of the cooperative interaction of its constructional components and means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device adapted to exert contractile and pulling motive power upon its activation, which device is comprised of: a hollow expandable central conduit member containing an interior void space and having a expandable balloonable, fluid-confining wall structure thereabout and respective end portions terminating same, said expandable conduit member being characterizable in exhibiting end-to-end contractibility when inflated from a position of undistended upon admission thereinto within said interior void space thereof of a fluid under pressure for expanding activation of said conduit member; at least a single, longitudinally-extending strand of filamentary material running at least relatively peripherally as to, and fixedly secured with, said wall structure of the expandable conduit member of which said filamentary material is an integral part in physical attachment thereto, said filamentary material aligned so as to extend along from one end of the expandable conduit to another end of said conduit member in emplacement therewith that is at least substantially parallel with a longitudinal center line of said conduit, said filamentary material being further characterizable in having a tensile extensibility not in excess of the elongatability under internal fluid-pressurization of said expandable conduit member; means connected into and with the void space in said hollow expandable conduit member for introducing fluid under pressure thereinto for inflationary activation thereof, whereby said expandable conduit member becomes so as to contractibly assume a foreshortened end-to-end length with corresponding lessening of the effective longitudinal span of the therewith emplaced and associated filamentary material; and mechanical means for interlinkingly coupling through and with extremity portions of said filamentary material the contractible ends of said expandable conduit member for physically anchoring same at and from one end thereof and connecting same to and with a load to be moved at and from the other end thereof, respectively. 2. A device in accordance with the device of claim 1, wherein there is a plurality of said strands of longitudinally extending filamentary material emplaced with said expandable conduit member therewith integrally associated. 3. A device that is in accordance with that of claim 2 and including, in addition thereto and further combination therewith means connected out of and with the void space in said hollow expandable conduit member for exhausting fluid under pressure therefrom for deflationary venting deactivation thereof, whereby said expandable conduit member becomes depressurized and uninflated so as to be capable of return to its non-fluid-activated position of rest wherein it at least substantially assumes its original unballooned end-to-end length. 4. A device in accordance with the device of claim 2, wherein at least part of said mechanical coupling means is adapted with passageway openings integrally thereinto built to simultaneously handle fluid under pressure for admission into or venting from, or both, said hollow void space in said expandable conduit member. 5. A device in accordance with the device of claim 2, wherein all of said mechanical coupling means are adapted with passageway openings integrally thereinto built to simultaneously handle fluid under pressure for admission into and venting from said hollow void space in said expandable conduit member. 6. A device in accordance with the device of claim 2, wherein said expandable conduit member is made of an elastomeric material and further is so fabricated as to have: a body portion constituted by said wall structure thereof; with openings at each respective end of said body portion which enter into said hollow void space of the expandable conduit member which is defined by said fluid-confining wall structure thereof. 7. A device in accordance with that of claim 6, wherein the elastomeric material of construction of which said expandable conduit member is made is a synthetic polymeric elastomer. 8. A device in accordance with that of claim 6, wherein the elastomeric material of construction of which said expandable conduit member is made is natural gum rubber. 9. A tubular body portion in a device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 6-8. 10. An out-of-round, curvilinearly-cross-sectioned body portion in a device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 6-8. 11. A polygonally-cross-sectioned body portion in a device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 6-8. 12. A device in accordance with the device of claim 2, wherein said plurality of strands of longitudinally-extending filamentary material is emplaced with at least about substantially uniform lateral equispacing between each of the peripherally-laid strands in physical attachment with said integrally-associated expandable conduit member. 13. A device in accordance with the device of claim 2, wherein said plurality of strands of longitudinally-extending filamentary material is emplaced in a single encompassing layer array in physical attachment with said integrally-associated expandable conduit member and about said hollow interior void space therein. 14. A device in accordance with the device of claim 2, wherein said plurality of strands of longitudinally-extending filamentary material (b) is emplaced in a plurality of superimposed layer arrays in physical attachment with said integrally associated expandable conduit member and about said hollow interior void space therein. 15. A device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 12-14, inclusive, wherein said plurality of longitudinally-extending filamentary material strands is laid upon and adhesively and cohesively attached to the outer wall surface of said expandable conduit member. 16. A device in accordance with that of claim 15, and including, in addition thereto and further combination therewith an applied layer coating of a resilient adhesive material deposited and affixed to said exterior wall surface of the expandable conduit member, within which said plurality of longitudinally-extending filamentary material strands is physically embedded and cohesively contained. 17. A deposit of dried, natural gum rubber latex as the applied layer coating in a device according to that of claim 16. 18. A device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 12-14, inclusive, wherein said plurality of longitudinally-extending filamentary strands is laid and mechanically-affixed within a corresponding plurality of longitudinally-extending, accommodating groove channels formed longitudinally in the outer wall surface of said expandable conduit member, with each of said strands of filamentary material being physically disposed and contained within one of said accommodating groove channels. 19. A device in accordance with that of claim 18, and including, in addition thereto and further combination therewith, an applied layer coating of a resilient adhesive material deposited over and affixed to said exterior wall surface of the expandable conduit member, underneath and at the lower portion of which said plurality of channel groove-contained, mechanically-affixed, longitudinally-extending filamentary strands is covered and further cohesively contained. 20. A deposit of dried, natural gum rubber latex as the applied layer coating in a device according to that of claim 19. 21. A device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 12-14, inclusive, wherein said plurality of longitudinally-extending filamentary strands is laid is laid and mechanically-affixed and contained physically within the wall structure, per se, of said expandable conduit member with which said strands are in integral association and attachment. 22. A device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 1, 2, 6 -8 and 12-14, inclusive, wherein said filamentary material is of natural origin. 23. A device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 1, 2, 6-8 and 12-14, inclusive, wherein said filamentary material is an organic fibrous material of natural origin that is selected from the Group consisting of natural proteinaceous fibrous materials, natural cellulosic fibrous materials and other natural high polymer substance fibrous materials. 24. A device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 1, 2, 6-8 and 12-14, inclusive, wherein said filamentary material is an organic fiber-forming and fibrous material of synthetic origin. 25. A polyester as the said filamentary material in a device in accordance with that of claim 24. 26. A nylon as the said filamentary material in a device in accordance with that of claim 24. 27. A polyolefin as the said filamentary material in a device in accordance with that of claim 24. 28. A polyvinyl derivative material including copolymers of vinyl chloride and vinyl acetate as the said filamentary material in a device in accordance with that of claim 24. 29. A polyaramid material as the said filamentary material in a device in accordance with that of claim 24. 30. A device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 1, 2, 6-8 and 12-14, inclusive, wherein said filamentary material is an inorganic fiber or filamentary strand of synthetic origin. 31. Strandular material of an inorganic fiber-forming substance that is selected from the Group consisting of carbon, graphite, boron and its fiber-forming derivatives, quartz, glass, aluminum silicates and non-ferrous metallic compositions as the said filamentary material in a device in accordance with that of claim 30. 32. Strandular material of a ferrous composition as the said filamentary material in a device in accordance with that of claim 30. 33. Steel as the filamentary material in claim 32. 34. A device in accordance with the device of claim 6, wherein at least one of said mechanical coupling means is adapted with passageway openings integrally thereinto built to simultaneously handle fluid under pressure for admission into or venting from, or both, said hollow void space in said expandable conduit member, with each of said mechanical coupling means being mounted and mechanically secured in the respective openings at each end of said body portion of said expandable conduit member. 35. The device of claim 34, wherein both of said mechanical coupling means are adapted with passageway openings integrally thereinto built to simultaneously handle fluid under pressure for admission into and venting from said hollow void space in said expandable conduit member. 36. A device in accordance with either one of those of claims 34 or 35, wherein said mechanical coupling means each have hooking portions therein formed which extend outwardly from the said contractible ends of said expandable conduit member. 37. A device in accordance with the device of claim 2, wherein said plurality of strands of longitudinally-extending filamentary material extends with freely-unattached loose extremity end portions thereof reaching beyond at least one of the longitudinal ends of the expandable conduit member, with said loose extremity end portions of the filamentary material being securely fastened to a mechanical means to make and provide an interlinking coupling arrangement from one of the contractible ends of said expandable conduit member to which the remainder of said filamentary material is securely affixed. 38. A device in accordance with the device of claim 2, wherein said plurality of strands of longitudinally-extending filamentary material extends with freely-unattached loose extremity end portions thereof reaching respectively beyond both of the longitudinal ends of the expandable conduit member, with each of said loose extremity end portions of the filamentary material being securely fastened to respective individual mechanical means to make and provide an inter-linking coupling arrangement from both of the respective contractible ends of said expandable conduit member to which the central remainder of said filamentary material is securely affixed. 39. A device in accordance with the device of claim 6, wherein at least one of said openings at one of the ends of said body portion of said expandable conduit member is sealingly-fitted with a mechanical end closure which is mechanically secured to the conduit member in order to cover said opening, and also wherein said plurality of strands of longitudinally-extending filamentary material extends with freely-unattached loose extremity end portions thereof reaching beyond at least one of the longitudinal ends of the expandable conduit member, with said loose extremity end portions of the filamentary material being securely fastened to a mechanical means to make and provide an interlinking coupling arrangement from one of the contractible ends of said expandable conduit member to which the remainder of said filamentary material is securely affixed. 40. The device of claim 39, wherein said mechanical end closure is an insertable plug form of fitting for closing and sealing the opening of said expandable conduit member in which it is mounted. 41. A device in accordance with the device of claim 40, wherein said mechanical end closure is provided with a central passageway therein for fluid-handling and -transmitting communication with said hollow void space in the expandable conduit member. 42. A device in accordance with the device of claim 6, wherein both of said openings at each of the respective ends of said body portion of said expandable conduit member are sealingly-fitted with respective mechanical end closures which are each mechanically secured to the conduit member in order to cover each respective opening thereof and also wherein said plurality of strands of longitudinally-extending filamentary material extends with freely-unattached loose extremity end portions thereof reaching respectively beyond both of the longitudinal ends of the expandable conduit member, with each of said loose extremity end portions of the filamentary material being securely fastened to respective individual mechanical means to make and provide an inter-linking coupling arrangement from both of the respective contractible ends of said expandable conduit member to which the central remainder of said filamentary material is securely affixed. 43. The device of claim 42, wherein both of said mechanical end closures are of an insertable plug form of fitting for closing and sealing respectively both of said openings of said expandable conduit member in which they are mounted. 44. A device in accordance with the device of claim 43, wherein at least one of said mechanical end closures is provided with a central passageway therein for fluid-handling and -transmitting communication with said hollow void space in the expandable conduit member. 45. A device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 1-8, 12-14, 34, 35 and 37-44, inclusive, wherein there is included, in addition thereto and in further combination therewith, means associated with said expandable conduit member and/or mechanical attachments therewith for guiding the longitudinal movement thereof in its stroke pattern during its contraction upon fluid-actuating inflation and extension from a ballooned condition of inflation upon release of any fluid-actuating pressurization thereof. 46. A device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 1-8, 12-14, 34, 35 and 37-44, inclusive, wherein there is included, in addition thereto and in further combination therewith, at least one engirdling, circumenvelopingly-binding and -constricting cinch means along the length of said expandable conduit member for constraining and preventing inflationary expansion and distension of said conduit member at the site of the restraining cinch girdle thereof, whereby upon fluid-actuating pressurization of said expandable conduit member it is inflated in a series of sequentially segmented ballooned portions magnifying contractibility thereof. 47. A plurality of said cinch means constraining said expandable conduit member in a device that is in accordance with that of claim 46. 48. The device of claim 47, wherein said plurality of said cinch means are provided at about equispaced location sites along the length from end-to-end of said expandable conduit member. 49. A device according to that of claim 15 and including, in addition thereto and further combination therewith, at least one engirdling, circumenvelopingly-binding and -constricting cinch means along the length of said expandable conduit member for constraining and preventing inflationary expansion and distension of said conduit member at the site of the restraining cinch girdle thereof, whereby upon fluid-actuating pressurization of said expandable conduit member it is inflated in a series of sequentially segmented ballooned portions magnifying contractibility thereof, 50. A device according to that of claim 18 and including, in addition thereto and further combination therewith, at least one engirdling, circumenvelopingly-binding and -constricting cinch means along the length of said expandable conduit member for constraining and preventing inflationary expansion and distension of said conduit member at the site of the restraining cinch girdle thereof, whereby upon fluid-actuating pressurization of said expandable conduit member it is inflated in a series of sequentially segmented ballooned portions magnifying contractibility thereof. 51. A device according to that of claim 19 and including, in addition thereto and further combination therewith, at least one engirdling, circumenvelopingly-binding and-constricting cinch means along the length of said expandable conduit member for constraining and preventing inflationary expansion and distension of said conduit member at the site of the resulting cinch girdle thereof, whereby upon fluid-actuating pressurization of said expandable conduit member it is inflated in a series of sequentially segmented ballooned portions magnifying contractibility thereof. 52. A device according to that of claim 21 and including, in addition thereto and further combination therewith, at least one engirdling, circumenvelopingly-binding and-constricting cinch means along the length of said expandable conduit member for constraining and preventing inflationary expansion and distension of said conduit member at the site of the resulting cinch girdle thereof, whereby upon fluid-actuating pressurization of said expandable conduit member it is inflated in a series of sequentially segmented ballooned portions magnifying contractibility thereof. 53. A device according to that of claim 22, and including, in addition thereto and further combination therewith, at least one engirdling, circumenvelopingly-binding and -constricting cinch means along the length of said expandable conduit member for constraining and preventing inflationary expansion and distension of said conduit member at the site of the resulting cinch girdle thereof, whereby upon fluid-actuating pressurization of said expandable conduit member it is inflated in a series of sequentially segmented ballooned portions magnifying contractibility thereof. 54. A device according to that of claim 24 and including, in addition thereto and further combination therewith, at least one engirdling, circumenvelopingly-binding and -constricting cinch means along the length of said expandable conduit member for constraining and preventing inflationary expansion and distension of said conduit member at the site of the resulting cinch girdle thereof, whereby upon fluid-actuating pressurization of said expandable conduit member it is inflated in a series of sequentially segmented ballooned portions magnifying contractibility thereof. 55. A plurality of said cinch means constraining said expandable conduit member in a device that is in accordance with any one of the devices of claims 49-54, inclusive. 56. A device in accordance with the device of claim 55, wherein said plurality of said cinch means are provided at about equispaced location sites along the length end-to-end of said expandable conduit member. 57. A prosthetic appliance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of any one of the devices that are in accordance with those of claims 1-8, 12-14, 34, 35 and 37-44, inclusive. 58. A prosthetic appliance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 46. 59. A prosthetic appliance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with either one of those of claims 47 or 48. 60. A prosthetic appliance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 49. 61. A prosthetic appliance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 50. 62. A prosthetic appliance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 51. 63. A prosthetic appliance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 52. 64. A prosthetic appliance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 53. 65. A prosthetic appliance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 54. 66. A prosthetic appliance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 55. 67. An animatable, robotically-operable construction assembly contrivance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of any one of the devices that are in accordance with those of claims 1-8, 12-14, 34, 35 and 37-44, inclusive. 68. An animatable, robotically-operable construction assembly contrivance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of on that is in accordance with claim 46. 69. An animatable, robotically-operable construction assembly contrivance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with either one of those of claims 47 or 48. 70. An animatable, robotically-operable construction assembly contrivance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 49. 71. An animatable, robotically-operable construction assembly contrivance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 50. 72. An animatable, robotically-operable construction assembly contrivance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 51. 73. An animatable, robotically-operatable construction assembly contrivance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 52. 74. An animatable, robotically-operatable construction assembly contrivance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 53. 75. An animatable, robotically-operatable construction assembly contrivance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 54. 76. An animatable, robotically-operatable construction assembly contrivance that is energized and powered for movement by and with an incorporated robotic, fluid-actuated muscle analogue device which is an embodiment of one that is in accordance with claim 55. 