A tether-guided vehicle and method of controlling same. A tether sensor indicates the angle, .theta., of the tether with respect to the vehicle and the tension, T, on the tether. A contact-sensitive bumper disposed about at least the front periphery of the vehicle indicates the position, P, and force, F, of contact with an obstacle. A drive system moves the vehicle in response to tether angle, .theta., and tension, T, thereby providing a "servo pull" feature. When the vehicle contacts an obstacle, it stops, backs up, turns and resume forward motion to circumnavigate the obstacle, thereby providing an "obstacle avoidance" feature. The servo pull and obstacle avoidance features make the vehicle suitable in a number of applications, such as for canister vacuums, hospital or factory carts, and the like.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling the movement of a semiautonomous vehicle about a surface comprising the steps of: providing a tether attached to the vehicle; sensing tension, T, on the tether; providing the vehicle with a contact sensitive bumper about at least a front peripheral portion of the vehicle; causing the vehicle to move forward at a velocity, v, in response to the second tension on the tether; in response to the bumper contacting an obstacle, causing the vehicle to stop and back up a distance, d; after the vehicle has backed up the distance, d, causing the vehicle to turn through an angle, .alpha.,; and after the vehicle has turned through the angle, .alpha., resuming a forward motion in response to continued tension, T, on the tether. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the forward velocity, v, of the vehicle is proportional to the tension on the tether. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the bumper senses a position, P, of contact with an obstacle relative to the vehicle; and in response to contact with an obstacle, the vehicle backs up away from the obstacle. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the bumper senses a position, P, of contact with an obstacle relative to the vehicle; and after backing up, the vehicle turns away from the obstacle. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein; the vehicle pauses after contacting an obstacle and before backing up. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein: after backing up, the vehicle turns through an angle, .alpha., proportion to a position, P, of contact with the obstacle. 7. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: repeating the steps of backing up, turning and resuming forward motion of the vehicle until a detour around the obstacle can be made. 8. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: sensing a directional angle .theta. the tether makes with the vehicle; and causing the vehicle to move forward in response to the sensed directional angle of the tether. 9. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: providing the tether with a sensor indicative of a user holding the tether; and prohibiting any motion of the vehicle if the tether is not being held by a user. 10. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: incorporating a soft start feature, f, in the step of causing the vehicle to move forward in response to the sensed tension on the tether. 11. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: incorporating a damping factor, h, in the step of resuming vehicle forward motion after the vehicle has backed up and turned in response to contacting an obstacle. 12. A semiautonomous vehicle for moving about a surface, comprising: a body member, means for moving and turning the body member, a tether attached to the vehicle; tether sensor means, to which the tether is attached, for sensing tension, T, on the tether; bumper means disposed about at least a front peripheral portion of the vehicle for sensing contact of the vehicle with an obstacle; means for exercising control over motion and turning of the vehicle in response to the tether sensor means and the bumper means; said tether sensing means including: a flange to which the tether is attached; a platform which is relatively fixed with respect to the vehicle; means resiliently holding the flange against the platform; and at least one force sensitive device disposed between the flange and the platform indicating a torque resulting from tension on the tether. 13. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein: the means resiliently holding the flange against the platform includes foam sandwiched between the flange and the platform and clips exerting a bias to hold the flange against the platform. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13, wherein: the bias is established to preload the at least one force sensitive device to a midpoint of an operating range when there is no tension on the tether. 15. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the at least one force sensitive device is disposed rearward of the tether. 16. Apparatus according to claim 12, wherein: two force sensitive devices are disposed between the flange and the platform. 17. Apparatus according to claim 16, wherein: the two force sensitive devices are disposed on either side of a longitudinal centerline of the vehicle so as to provide a differential output in response to a tension off-set from the longitudinal center line on the tether indicative of a steering input. 