A low-profile clip adapted to secure a listing bead to a foam substrate and is constructed from a material that affords resilience, durability, high resistance to a wide range of temperatures during field use and seat assembly and ease of bead installation with high pull-out strength. The clip includes a base and a pair of legs extending upwardly from the base to a top barb. In this embodiment, the legs each extend upwardly from the base at a first angle of approximately 80 to 85 degrees and therefrom to each of the respective barbs at a second angle, with respect to a plane parallel to the base of approximately 88 to 90 degrees. In this manner the clip exhibits high performance while defining an overall height from tops of the legs to a bottom of the base of approximately ten millimeters or less making the clip particularly desirable for use in modern, thinner foam substrates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A low-profile clip adapted to secure a bead to a foam substrate comprising: a base; a pair of legs extending upwardly from the base and defining therebetween a central region constructed and arranged to capture the bead, each of the legs including a top barb that defines a gap narrower than the central region; wherein the legs each extend upwardly along an inner leg wall from a horizontal plane taken through the base at a first angle of between approximately 80 and 85 degrees and therefrom to each of the respective barbs at a second angle, with respect to an elevated plane at a predetermined height above, and parallel to, the horizontal plane taken through the base, of between approximately 88 and 90 degrees measured along an outer leg wall, and wherein each of the legs has a thickness taken along a direction parallel to the horizontal plane of between approximately 1.0 and 2.0 millimeters, wherein each of the legs has a base root having respective fillets interconnected between each leg and the base and a substantially uniform thickness between the fillets and the top barb for increased strength, and wherein the top barb is free of outward extensions; each said fillet formed as a concave radius and said respective fillets including an inner base fillet and an outer base fillet; said barb having a single flat angled top surface, an inner top round-over forming a terminating end of the barb and an outer top radius; said outer top radius extending between said outer leg wall and said single flat angled top surface; said outer top radius being comparable in magnitude to that of the inner top round-over; wherein the clip defines an overall maximum height from tops of the legs to a bottom of the base of approximately 10 millimeters or less. 2. The clip as set forth in claim 1 wherein the predetermined height is between approximately 4.0 and 5.0 millimeters and the gap spans a distance of between approximately 1.2 and 3.0 millimeters. 3. The clip is set forth in claim 1 wherein a bottom surface of each of the barbs defines an angle that is approximately the same as an angle of a respective engaging surface of the bead. 4. The clip as set forth in claim 3 wherein the angle of the bottom surface of each of the barbs is between approximately 20 and 35 degrees with respect to a reference plane parallel to the horizontal plane taken through the base. 5. The clip as set forth in claim 3 wherein the clip is stored on a spool interconnected to the other clip base in a festooned arrangement. 6. The clip as set forth in claim 1 wherein the clip is constructed from a blended polycarbonate material including an impact modifier. 7. The clip as set forth in claim 1 wherein the base includes a segment that is constructed and arranged to interconnect to another clip so as to be formed as a ganged clip assembly. 8. The clip as set forth in claim 7 wherein the base includes a first connector on a first end and a second connector on an opposing second end, the first connector constructed and arranged to receive and removably interconnect with a third connector mounted on an another clip base so as to provide a festooned arrangement of interconnected clips; said base including opposed interconnecting support segments of uniform thickness disposed between the leg and connector so that the respective connectors are substantially spaced apart the thickness of each support segment being comparable to the thickness of each leg. 9. The clip as set forth in claim 1 wherein the base includes a first connector on a first end and a second connector on an opposing second end, the first connector constructed and arranged to receive and removably interconnect with a third connector mounted on an another clip base so as to provide a festooned arrangement of interconnected clips; said base including opposed interconnecting support segments of uniform thickness disposed between the leg and connector so that the respective connectors are substantially spaced apart the thickness of each support segment being comparable to the thickness of each leg. 10. The clip as set forth in claim 9 wherein the first connector and the third connector each comprise a male cylinder and the second connector defines a female inner semi-cylindrical surface having an inner diameter that conforms to an outer diameter of the male cylinder, the female inner semi-cylindrical surface including a gap constricted and arranged to provide clearance from a connector base that supports the male cylinder. 11. The clip as set forth in claim 10 wherein the connector base and the gap are each sized and arranged to allow the base to rotate angularly with respect to the other clip base. 12. The clip as set forth in claim 10 wherein the clip is stored in a box interconnected to the other clip base in a festooned arrangement. 13. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of the barbs has a bottom flat surface extending at an angle to the horizontal and an inside radius; said inside radius extending between the inner wall of the leg and the bottom flat surface; said bottom flat surface extending between said inside radius and said inner top round-over. 14. The clip as set forth in claim 13 wherein the outer top radius and the single angled top surface are the only surfaces at the top of the barb. 15. The clip as set forth in claim 1 wherein the bead comprises a listing bead that is interconnected to an upholstery fabric covering. 16. A low-profile clip adapted to secure a bead to a foam substrate comprising; a base that includes a connector extending outwardly horizontally from the base, the connector being constructed and arranged to allow the base to rotate angularly with respect to an other clip base when removably interconnected to the other clip base; a pair of legs extending upwardly from the base and defining therebetween a central region constructed and arranged to capture the bead, each of the legs including a top barb that defines a gap narrower than central region; said base including opposed interconnecting support segments of uniform thickness disposed between the leg and connector so that the respective connectors are spaced apart; the thickness of each support segment being comparable to the thickness of each leg; wherein the legs each extend upwardly from a horizontal plane taken through the base at a first angle and therefrom to each of the respective barbs at a second angle, with respect to an elevated plane at a predetermined height above, and parallel to, the horizontal plane taken through the base, and wherein each of the legs has a substantially constant thickness therealong; each of the legs has a base root having respective fillets interconnected between each leg and the base and a substantially uniform thickness between the fillets and the top barb for increased strength; each said fillet formed as a concave radius and said respective fillets including an inner base fillet and an outer base fillet; each of said fillets formed as concave junction between respective leg walls and the base; wherein the legs, and at least a portion of the base disposed between the legs, is constructed from a blended polycarbonate material including an impact modifier; and wherein the clip defines an overall maximum height from tops of the legs to a bottom of the base of approximately 10 millimeters or less. 17. A clip assembly including a plurality of clips in the assembly, each being adapted to secure a bead to a foam substrate comprising: at least one dual-ganged clip including first and second opposed clip members joined by an elongated shaft segment that spacedly disposes the first and second opposed clip members apart; a first clip member base with first clip legs constructed and arranged to secure a bead thereinto, extending from the first clip member base at a first angle of between approximately 80 and 85 degrees and therefrom to each of respective barbs at a second angle, with respect to an elevated plane at a predetermined height above, and parallel to, the horizontal plane taken through the base, of between approximately 88 and 90 degrees, and the first clip member base having opposing first base ends oriented along a direction of grouping elongation; a first connector and a second connector mounted at each of the opposing first base ends; a second clip member base with second clip legs constructed and arranged to secure the bead thereinto, extending from the second clip member base, and the second clip member base having opposing second base ends oriented along a direction of grouping elongation; a third connector and a fourth connector mounted at each of the opposing second base ends; wherein the first connector is constructed and arranged to removably engage the fourth connector and to allow the second clip member base to rotate angularly with respect to the first clip member base; and wherein each of the first clip member base and first clip legs together define a clip having an overall maximum height from a bottom of the first clip member base to a top of the legs of 10 millimeters and wherein each of the second clip member base and second clip legs together define a clip having an overall maximum height from a bottom of the second clip member base to a top of the legs of 10 millimeters; wherein each of the legs has a base root having respective fillets interconnected between each leg and the base, each said fillet formed as a concave radius and said respective fillets including an inner base fillet and an outer base fillet; and wherein each of said fillets is formed as concave junction between respective leg walls and the base. 18. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 17 wherein each said base includes opposed interconnecting support segments of uniform thickness disposed between the leg and connector so that the respective connectors are spaced apart and the thickness of each support segment is comparable to the thickness of each leg. 19. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 18 wherein the length of the support segment is longer than the width of the support segment. 20. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 17 wherein said barb has a single flat angled top surface, an inner top round-over forming a terminating end of the barb and an outer top radius; said outer top radius extending between said outer leg wall and said single flat angled top surface; and said outer top radius being comparable in magnitude to that of the inner top round-over. 21. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 20 wherein each of the barbs has a bottom flat surface extending at an angle to the horizontal and an inside radius; said inside radius extending between the inner wall of the leg and the bottom flat surface; and said bottom flat surface extending between said inside radius and said inner top round-over. 22. The clip as set forth in claim 21 wherein the outer top radius and the single angled top surface are the only surfaces at the top of the barb. 23. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 17 wherein the elongated shaft segments of respective one and another dual-ganged clips extend in parallel and each have opposed ends that extend in a direction between facing side surfaces of respective first and second clip member bases. 24. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 23 wherein the elongated shaft segments have a length greater than a width of the clip member base to assist in grasping the clip at the elongated shaft segment and each elongated shaft segment connects to the clip member base at the facing side surface thereof. 25. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 24 wherein the length of each elongated shaft segment is an order of magnitude greater than the clip member base width. 26. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 17 wherein the first connector and the second connector extend outwardly from a central portion of the first base member to each of the opposing first base ends along the first direction of grouping elongation, such that the first connector and the second connector are disposed outwardly beyond the first clip legs and the first clip barbs along the first direction of grouping elongation so that the first clip member is allowed to angularly deflect about a respective rotational axis relative to an adjacent clip member. 27. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 17 wherein the first connector comprises a male connector for the first clip member base, and the male connector is arranged on a pair of outwardly extending side braces that define an opening between a central portion of the first clip member base and the male connector. 28. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 27 wherein the opening is sized and arranged so that, when a female connector is attached to the male connector, the female connector rides within the opening. 29. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 27 wherein relative arrangement of the first connector and the second connector allows a plurality of connected clip members to bend relative angles in excess of 90 degrees. 30. The clip assembly as set forth in claim 17 wherein each of the clip members are adapted to be mounted on rails in a mold cavity such that, as liquid foam is introduced to the mold cavity, the rails define trenches within the foam and the clip members reside in the trenches with gaps between their respective clip legs exposed for insertion of a listing. 