An electrical component is made from an electrically insulating polymer matrix filled with electrically insulating fibrous filler which is capable of heat conversion to electrically conducting fibrous filler and has at least one continuous electrically conductive path formed in the matrix by the in situ heat conversion of the electrically insulating fibrous filler. In a preferred embodiment, the fibrous filler is thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers and the conductive path is formed by in situ heat converted thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers which have been converted by directing a laser beam through a mask having a predetermined pattern to melt the polymer and to heat convert the thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers.
Claims We claim: 1. An electrical component comprising an electrically insulating polymer matrix filled with an electrically insulating fibrous filler capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting fibrous filler, said electrically insulating polymer matrix including at least one continuous electrically conductive path formed by the in situ heat conversion of said electrically insulating fibrous filler. 2. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein said polymer matrix is present as an adherent surface layer on a base support member. 3. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein said insulating fibrous filler is heat convertible, carbonaceous fibers and said electrically conductive path comprises in situ heat converted carbonaceous fibers. 4. The electrical component of claim 3 wherein said heat convertible carbonaceous fibers are thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers and said conductive path comprises in situ heat converted thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers. 5. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein said polymer matrix is from about 5 to about 70% by weight fibrous filler. 6. The electrical component of claim 5 wherein said polymer matrix is from about 10 to about 30% by weight fibrous filler. 7. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein said insulating polymer matrix has a resistivity greater than about 10.sup.14 ohm cm and said electrically conductive path has a resistivity less than about 10.sup.9 ohm cm. 8. The electrical component of claim 1 wherein said at least one electrically conductive path comprises a narrow groove formed by laser pyrolysis of a portion of said filled insulating polymer matrix to melt said polymer and to convert said electrically insulating fibrous fillers electrically conductive fibers. 9. The electrical component of claim 8 wherein said narrow groove has an adherent continuous coating of a conductive metal plated thereon. 10. The electrical component of claim 8 wherein said at least one electrically conductive path comprises a plurality of conductive paths. 11. The electrical component of claim 10 wherein said component is three dimensional in shape and said at least one conductive path is three dimensional in shape. 12. The electrical component of claim 8 wherein said at least one groove is from about 0.2 to about 2.0 mm deep and from about 0.1 to about 5.0 mm wide. 13. The electrical component of claim 8 wherein adjacent said heat converted fibers are held by said polymer matrix in said groove and said fibers are in electrical contact providing an electrically conductive path in said groove. 14. The electrical component of claim 13 wherein said heat converted fibers are from about 1 to about 12 mm in length and from about 5.times.10.sup.-3 to about 5.times.10.sup.-2 mm in diameter. 15. A method of forming at least one electrically conductive path in a polymer matrix comprising providing an electrically insulating structural polymer matrix filled with electrically insulating fibrous filler capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting fibrous filler, heating the portion of said polymer matrix corresponding to a desired conductive path to a temperature sufficient to convert said electrically insulating fibrous filler to an electrically conductive fibrous filler thereby providing said at least one electrically conductive path. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said polymer matrix is a structural polymer matrix. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein said polymer matrix is present as an adherent surface layer on a base support member. 18. The method of claim 15 wherein said insulating fibrous filler is heat convertible carbonaceous fibers and said electrically conductive path comprises in situ heat converted carbonaceous fibers. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said heat convertible carbonaceous fibers are thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers and said conductive path comprises in situ heat converted thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said polymer matrix is from about 5 to about 70% by weight fibrous filler. 21. The method of claim 15 wherein said polymer matrix is from about 10 to about 30% by weight fibrous filler. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said insulating polymer matrix has a resistivity greater than about 10.sup.14 ohm cm and said electrically conductive path has a resistivity less than 10.sup.9 ohm cm. 23. The method of claim 15 wherein said heating comprises directing a laser beam to a portion of said polymer matrix to pyrolyze a portion of said filled insulating polymer matrix to melt said polymer and carbonize said electrically insulating fibers to electrically conductive fibers. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said laser pyrolysis of said polymer matrix produces a narrow groove in said polymer matrix filled with heat converted conductive fibers held by said polymer matrix, said fibers being in electrical contact providing an electrical conductive path in said groove. 25. The method of claim 24 including the step of applying an adherent continuous coating of a conductive metal to said narrow groove. 26. The method of claim 23 wherein said laser beam is directed to said polymer matrix in a predetermined pattern. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein said laser beam is directed toward said polymer matrix through a mask having a predetermined pattern. 28. The method of claim 27 wherein said predetermined pattern comprises a plurality of paths. 29. The method of claim 23 wherein said polymer matrix is a three dimensional member and including the step of moving said support member and said laser beam relative to each other to create at least one electrically conductive path which is three dimensional in profile. 30. The method of claim 24 wherein said narrow groove is from about 0.2 to about 2.0 mm deep and from about 0.1 to about 5.0 mm wide and said converted conductive fibers are from about 1 to about 12 mm in length and from about 5.times.10.sup.-3 to about 5.times.10.sup.-2 mm in diameter. 31. A machine including a plurality of electrical components each requiring the supply of electrical current for proper functioning, said machine including at least one support member comprising an electrically insulating structural polymer matrix filled with an electrically insulating fibrous filler capable of heat conversion to an electrically conducting fibrous filler said electrically insulating structural polymer matrix including at least one continuous electrically conductive path between electrical components formed by the in situ head conversion of said electrically insulating fibrous filler. 32. The machine of claim 31 wherein said polymer matrix is present as an adherent surface layer on a base support member. 33. The machine of claim 31 wherein said support member is formed of said polymer matrix. 34. The machine of claim 31 wherein said support member is a structural machine member. 35. The machine of claim 31 wherein said support insulating fibrous filler is heat convertible carbonaceous fibers and said at least one electrically conductive path comprises in situ heat converted carbonaceous fibers. 36. The machine of claim 35 wherein said heat convertible carbonaceous fibers are thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers and said conductive path comprises in situ heat converted thermally stabilized polyacrylonitrile fibers. 37. The machine of claim 31 wherein said polymer matrix is from about 5 to about 70% by weight fibrous filler. 38. The machine of claim 31 wherein said at least one electrically conductive path comprises a narrow groove formed by laser pyrolysis of a portion of said filled insulating polymer matrix to melt said polymer and to convert said electrically insulating fibrous filler to electrically conductive fibers. 39. The machine of claim 38 wherein said narrow groove has an adherent continuous coating of a conductive metal plated thereon. 40. The machine of claim 38 wherein said at least one electrically conductive path comprises a plurality of conductive paths. 41. The machine of claim 40 wherein said support member is three dimensional in shape and said at least one electrically conductive path is three dimensional in shape. 42. The machine of claim 40 wherein said at least one groove is from about 0.2 to about 2.0 mm deep and from about 0.1 to about 0.1 to about 5.0 mm wide. 43. The machine of claim 38 wherein adjacent said heat converted fibers are held by said polymer matrix in said groove and said fibers are in electrical contact providing an electrically conductive path in said groove. 44. The machine of claim 43 wherein said heat converted fibers are from about 1 to about 12 mm in length and from about 5.times.10.sup.-3 to about 5.times.10 .sup.-2 mm in diameter. 