A container or array of containers that is are sealed with a peelable seal is transported via a conveyor along a processing path toward a desealing station at which an adhesive surface having a width substantially the same as or greater than the width of the seal is pressed against the upper surface of the peelable seal. A collection rod applies a downward pressure on the adhesive surface, pressing it against the seal and keeping the container or container array in position on the conveyor as the plate moves with the conveyor. As the leading edge of the seal passes the collection rod, the adhesive surface is rolled upward, away from the plane of the seal, pulling up on the leading edge of the seal to separate it from the container or container array while the container or container array is held down by the roller. The removed seal is then discarded.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for removal of a film seal from an array of containers containing a plurality of liquid samples, comprising: a processing surface; a collection rod disposed above the processing surface, the collection rod having a length substantially equal to or greater than a width of the film seal, the collection rod adapted to apply a downward force against an upper surface of the array of containers and the film seal; an adhesive surface having a width approximately equal to the width of the film seal extending downward along the length of the collection rod, wherein the downward force presses the adhesive surface against the film seal and the upper surface of the array of containers; translation means for moving one of the array of containers and the adhesive surface relative to the other along a translation path in a direction parallel to a plane of the processing surface; and a mechanism adapted to produce tangential upward forces at a downstream side of the collection rod so that the adhesive surface pulls up a leading edge of the film seal and causes the film seal to be peeled upward away from the array of containers as one of the array of containers and the adhesive surface moves along the translation path, wherein the collection rod is oriented at an angle of about 45 degrees relative to each of the translation path and a leading edge of the array of containers to begin peeling the film seal at a single corner of the leading edge of the film seal, wherein the translation means causes the collection rod to be moved from the leading edge of the film seal to a trailing edge of the film seal while the film seal is peeled from the array of containers. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the adhesive surface comprises a heat activated glue strip and the device further comprises a heat source for activating the glue strip. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the adhesive surface comprises an adhesive tape having a tape width approximately the same as a width of the film seal, and further comprising: a source roll comprising unused tape; a pressure surface; a take-up spindle; a take-up reel for collecting used tape and removed film seals, wherein a first tape path extends from the source roll, under the pressure surface and ends at the collection rod, and a second tape path begins at the collection rod and ends at the take-up reel, wherein the take-up reel comprises a cylinder having a length substantially the same as the tape width, the cylinder adapted to be releasably disposed on the take-up spindle, and a side flange disposed on each end of the cylinder, the side flanges adapted for at least partially containing residual liquid on the removed film seal; and a driver motor to rotate the take-up spindle and take-up reel to pull the tape from the source roll and through the first and second tape paths. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the second tape path is 90.degree..+-.10.degree. relative to the first tape path. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein the second tape path is 87.degree.-88.degree. relative to the first tape path. 6. The device of claim 3, wherein the translation means comprises a conveyor and further comprising a conveyor car for supporting the array of containers and aligning the leading edge of the array of containers relative to the collection rod and the adhesive surface. 7. The device of claim 6, further comprising a switch for selecting orientation of the conveyor car and the array of containers supported thereon at the end of the conveyor car's travel on the processing surface. 8. The device of claim 3, further comprising a controller for controlling rotational speed of the take-up reel and coordinating a speed of the translation means with the rotational speed of the take-up reel. 9. The device of claim 8, wherein the rotational speed of the take-up reel is adjusted as the used tape is accumulated on the take-up reel. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the adhesive surface comprises an adhesive tape having a tape width approximately the same as a width of the film seal, and further comprising: a source roll comprising unused tape; a pressure surface; a take-up reel for collecting used tape and removed film, wherein the take-up reel comprises a cylinder having a length approximately the same as the tape width, and wherein a tape path extends from the source roll, under the pressure surface, under the collection rod and ends at the take-up reel; a set of pinch rollers including a drive roller for pulling the tape from the source roll and through the tape path. 11. The device of claim 10, further comprising a paper roll for dispensing a roll of paper backing tape, wherein the paper backing tape is fed into the pinch roller with the adhesive tape. 12. The device of claim 10, wherein the tape path changes direction at the collection rod so that the tape path downstream of the collection rod is 90.degree..+-.10.degree. relative to the tape path upstream of the collection rod. 13. The device of claim 1, further comprises a sensor disposed over the processing surface downstream from the collection rod for detecting a residual film on the array of containers and generating a signal in response to detection of the residual film. 14. The device of claim 1, wherein the collection rod comprises a disposable key adapted for removing a single film seal, the key having a strip of adhesive extending along a length of the key, and wherein the mechanism for generating upward tangential forces comprises a key roller that receives the key, rotates the key to contact the adhesive strip to a leading edge of the film seal and rotates the key to roll the film seal around the length of the key as the translation means transports one of the array of containers and the adhesive surface relative to the other along the translation path. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein the adhesive strip comprises a heat activated glue, and further comprising a heat source for activating the glue. 16. The device of claim 1, further comprising a shield disposed above the collection rod, the shield adapted to prevent cross-contamination of liquid samples within the array of containers. 17. A device for removal of a film from a plate containing a plurality of liquid samples in discrete wells, comprising: a processing surface; an adhesive tape having a tape width approximately equal to a width of the film and an adhesive surface extending downward along a first tape path, wherein the first tape path begins at a source roll; a conveyor for moving the plate across the processing surface beneath the first tape path; a pressure surface disposed within the first tape path for applying a downward pressure on the tape and the film on the plate as the plate moves beneath the first tape path; a collection rod disposed within the first tape path downstream from the pressure surface, the collection rod having a length approximately equal to or greater than a width of the plate and being oriented at an angle of about 45 degrees relative to the first tape path and a leading edge of the plate to begin peeling the film at a single corner of a leading edge of the film; a take-up reel disposed at an end of a second tape path non-parallel to the first tape path for collecting used tape and removed film, the take-up reel comprising a cylinder having a length approximately the same as the tape width and a side flange disposed at each end of the cylinder; and a driver motor to rotate the take-up reel to pull the tape from the source roll and along the first and second tape paths. 18. The device of claim 17, further comprising a sensor disposed over the processing surface downstream from the collection rod for detecting a residual film on the plate and generating a signal in response to detection of the residual film. 19. The device of claim 17, wherein the second tape path is 90.degree..+-.3.degree. relative to the first tape path. 20. The take-up reel of claim 17, wherein the first tape path is at an angle of 87.degree.-88.degree. relative to the first tape path. 21. The device of claim 17, wherein the conveyor comprises a conveyor car for supporting the plate and aligning the leading edge of the plate relative to the pressure surface and the collection rod. 22. The device of claim 21, further comprising a switch for selecting orientation of the conveyor car and the plate supported thereon at the end of the conveyor car's travel on the processing surface. 23. The device of claim 17, further comprising a controller for controlling rotational speed of the take-up reel and coordinating a speed of the conveyor with a the rotational speed of the take-up reel. 24. The device of claim 23, wherein the rotational speed of the take-up reel is adjusted as the used tape is accumulated on the take-up reel. 25. The device of claim 17, further comprising: a set of pinch rollers including a drive roller for pulling the tape from the source roll and through the tape path. 26. The device of claim 25, further comprising a paper roll for dispensing a roll of paper backing tape, wherein the paper backing tape is fed into the pinch roller with the adhesive tape. 27. The device of claim 17, further comprising a shield disposed above the collection rod, the shield adapted to prevent cross-contamination of liquid samples within the discrete wells. 