There are described methods and apparatus for assessing sediments generated in liquid-based systems. The methods involve optically obtaining information to enable height and, thus, volume data relating to sediments to be measured. Although single samples of liquid-based systems may be processed the methods are particularly suited to processing multiple samples to obtain data relating to sediments at a high rate. The apparatus includes automated handling equipment to enable samples to be moved between workstations and relative to associated optical equipment that is used to obtain information relating to the sediments.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of assessing sediment volume in a liquid-based starch-containing sample comprises: a) introducing the starch-containing sample into a tube and, if necessary, treating said starch containing-sample to form sediment; b) positioning the tube containing the starch-containing sample relative to an opto-electrical device capable of capturing an image of the tube, wherein said starch-containing sample comprises sediment, supernatant, and a sediment-supernatant interface; c) using the opto-electrical device to capture an image of the tube normal thereto; d) analysing the captured image to determine the height of the sediment; and e) using the height measurement to generate a sediment volume measurement. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein, in step d, the analysis of the captured image comprises converting the captured to a binary image and measuring the area and the width of the portion of the binary image corresponding to the sediment. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the opto-electrical device is set to limit the pixel intensity of the captured image in the central region of the anticipated sediment element of the captured image. 4. A method according to claim 3 wherein the pixel intensity is set to about 60% to 90% of the pixel intensity range of the opto-electronic device. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein, in step d), the captured image is subjected to a partial smoothing operation. 6. A method according to claim 2 wherein the binary image is subjected to a scrap operation to remove small white features within the black areas and a fill operation to fill in holes in the white objects so they are more complete. 7. A method according to claim 1 wherein, in step d), the analysis includes editing the captured image to remove any features associated with any glare due to the wall at the bottom of the tube and to reconstruct of the bottom region of the sediment in the vial. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein, in step d), the analysis includes creating a new binary image consisting of a white or black rectangle whose axis is along the axis of the tube and whose width is less than the width of the sediment and performing a Boolean AND operation using this image and the binary image of the sediment to create a new binary image which is an image of the height of the central section of the sediment. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein the height of the sediment is determined by measuring area and the width of the new image. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein a plurality of starch-containing samples are assessed either sequentially or in parallel. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein, in parallel assessment, more than 1 starch-containing sample but not more than 100 starch-containing samples, are processed together. 12. A method according to claim 1 wherein, in step d), the quality of the captured image is checked and if it does not meet a predetermined standard, repeating steps c) and d) using different image capture conditions to obtain, if possible, an acceptable image before proceeding to step e). 13. A method according to claim 12 wherein, if the image does not meet the standard after iteration of steps c) and d), the image at that point is captured and that fact is recorded. 14. A method according to claim 12 wherein the image quality is checked by measuring the I.sub.max of the image and determining whether it is within a required range of the total pixel intensity range and: a) if it is within the required I.sub.max range, further processing the image; or b) if it is not within the required I.sub.max range: (i) if I.sub.max is above the required I.sub.max range, reduce the lighting level and/or increase the speed of image capture and iterate this step until an acceptable image is acquired; (ii) if I.sub.max is below the required I.sub.max range, increase the lighting level and/or decrease the speed of image capture and iterate this step until an acceptable image is acquired; and, once an acceptable image is acquired, further processing the image. 15. A method according to claim 14 wherein the quality of the image is further checked by superimposing a series of vertical lines over the image of the sediment, measuring the lengths of the lines and obtaining a standard deviation for those lengths and comparing that standard deviation to a pre-selected standard deviation. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein a) if the standard deviation of the image is below a selected standard deviation, further process the image; or b) if the standard deviation of the image is above the selected standard deviation, then measure the I.sub.mean of the image and either: i) if the I.sub.mean is within the required I.sub.max range, reduce the light intensity and capture a new image of the sediment and iterate capturing and processing an image of the sediment; or ii) if the I.sub.mean is outside a second I.sub.max range, increase the light intensity and capture a new image of the sediment and iterate capturing and processing an image of the sediment; and c) if the new image in step b)(i) is acceptable, further process the image; if not keep repeating step b)(i) until the I.sub.mean is below a preselected level of the pixel intensity range and, if the image is still not of the required quality, capture the image in any event and further process the image but bookmark the record for subsequent manual examination; or d) if the new image in step b)(ii) is acceptable, further process the image; if not keep repeating step b)(ii) until the I.sub.mean falls within the range or, if the light intensity is at the maximum available, capture the image in any event but bookmark the record for subsequent manual examination. 