A composite toy robot that may be assembled from five individual lion-like vehicles. Each of the vehicles has a hollow body with an openable portion for receiving a toy figure within the body and a pivotal head. Four legs are attached to the body for pivotal movement from an extended position in which the body is supportable on a surface to a retracted position. In addition, each body has an elongated tail mounted for pivotal movement relative to the body. One of the lion-like vehicles forms the torso of the composite toy robot and the limbs of this vehicle are substantially within a respective hip or shoulder joint in the retracted position. The tail of each of the arm and leg forming vehicles has a notch adjacent the end that is received in the hip or shoulder joint of the torso vehicle so that pivotal movement of the respective leg of the torso vehicle into the retracted position retains the tail. Each of the legs of the torso vehicle has an exposed side with an indentation to facilitate moving the legs back out of the retracted tail locking position.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A composite toy comprising: first, second and third assemblies; each of the assemblies having a body with a head attached for pivotal movement relative to the body; a plurality of limbs attached to each body for pivotal movement relative to the body from an extended position in which the body is supportable on the limbs to a retracted position; the retracted position for the limbs on the first assembly being substantially within a part of the first assembly; an elongated appendage mounted on each body of the second and third assemblies for pivotal movement relative to the body; and the elongated appendage of each of the second and third assemblies being insertable into the part of the first assembly adjacent a respective limb of the first assembly and being retained within the part of the first assembly by the respective limb of the first assembly being pivoted into the retracted position. 2. The composite toy of claim 1 in which the limbs are legs and the part is a hip or shoulder joint that is also mounted for pivotal movement relative to the body of the first assembly. 3. The composite toy of claim 1 in which: the elongated appendages of the second and third assemblies have a mounted end and an opposed free end with a notch adjacent the free end; the limbs of the first assembly have a pivotally attached end and an opposed support end as well as an inward side and an outward side relative to the body of the first assembly in the retracted position; the intersection of the support end and the inward side of a respective limb of the first assembly engaging the notch to retain the elongated appendage substantially in a predetermined relationship within the part of the first assembly. 4. The composite toy of claim 3 in which the outward side of the limbs of the first assembly have an indentation facilitating manual grasping of the limb to pivot it out of the retracted position. 5. The composite toy of claim 3 in which means inside the part support a portion of the appendage intermediate the mounted end and the free end. 6. The composite toy of claim 5 in which engagement of the intersection with the notch urges the intermediate portion of the appendage against the means inside the part. 7. The composite toy of claim 5 in which additional means inside the part into which the appendage of the second assembly is insertable support the free end. 8. The composite toy of claim 1 in which there are a pair of the second assemblies and a pair of the third assemblies. 9. The composite toy of claim 8 in which the second assemblies form arms for the composite toy and the third assemblies form legs for the composite toy while the first assembly forms the head and torso for the composite toy. 10. The composite toy of claim 1 in which the body of each assembly has a hollow cockpit portion capable of receiving a toy figure. 11. The composite toy of claim 10 in which each assembly has an openable canopy providing access to the cockpit for insertion and removal of the figure. 12. The composite toy of claim 11 in which at least some of the canopies are at least partially transparent. 13. The composite toy of claim 1 including means for maintaining the limbs at a number of pivotal positions between the extended position and the retracted position. 