A tracking and positioning system and method to enable the precise positioning of an object or tool relative to its surgical surroundings, and in accordance with preoperative CT images of the operating site. When used for artificial spinal disc positioning, the system comprises a computing system incorporating in memory the preoperative CT data showing the two vertebrae and the predetermined disc position between them; a 3-D target having radio-opaque markers for attaching to one of the vertebrae to define the position of the vertebra in an intra-operative fluoroscope image of the spine; a tool for intra-operative insertion of the artificial disc, and a registration system for relating the intra-operative fluoroscope image to the preoperative CT data, such that the predetermined disc position is displayed in the fluoroscope image of the subject, thereby enabling the surgeon to place the artificial disc accurately in its intended position.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for intraoperatively placing an artificial disc at a predetermined position between two vertebrae of a subject, said system comprising: a computing system having a storage medium including a set of preoperative CT data showing said two vertebrae and said predetermined position of said disc between them; at least one three-dimensional target having radio-opaque markers adapted to be attached to at least one of said vertebrae to define the position of said vertebra in at least one intra-operative fluoroscope image of the subject; a tool for intra-operative insertion of said artificial disc; and a registration system for relating said at least one intra-operative fluoroscope image to said set of preoperative CT data, such that said predetermined disc position is displayed in said at least one fluoroscope image of the subject, thereby enabling intraoperative placement of said artificial disc in said predetermined disc position. 2. A system according to claim 1 and wherein said predetermined position of said disc is obtained from predefined geometrical information about the position. 3. A system according to claim 1 and wherein said predetermined position of said disc is obtained by adjusting said disc position in a model obtained from said preoperative CT data, such that facet joints between said vertebrae are in minimally stressed positions. 4. A system according to claim 1 and further comprising at least two pins attached to each of said vertebrae, each of said pins comprising at least two radio-opaque markers disposed at known positions along said pins, such that said pins define the three-dimensional position of said vertebrae in said fluoroscope images of the subject, such that said target may be removed to allow intra-operative placement of said disc in said predetermined position. 5. A system according to claim 1 and further comprising at least one pin attached to each of said vertebra, each of said pins comprising at least three radio-opaque markers disposed at fixed positions along said pins, such that said pins define the three-dimensional position of said vertebrae in said fluoroscope images of the subject, such that said target may be removed to allow intra-operative placement of said disc in said predetermined position. 6. A system according to claim 1 and wherein said insertion tool is either a manually operated tool or a robotically operated tool. 7. A system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one three-dimensional target comprises at least two pins attached to one of said two vertebrae, each of said at least two pins comprising at least two radio-opaque markers disposed along their length, such that the position of said vertebra is defined in at least one intra-operative fluoroscope image of the subject. 8. A method of intraoperative positioning an artificial disc between two vertebrae of a subject, said method comprising the steps of: generating from a preoperative set of CT data, a CT model showing said vertebrae; predetermining a position for said disc between said vertebrae, and defining said position in said model; attaching at least one three-dimensional target to one of said vertebrae; generating at least one fluoroscope image of the subject, such that the three-dimensional position of said one of said vertebrae is defined in said at least one fluoroscope image by means of said at least one target; registering said at least one fluoroscope image of the subject with said CT model, such that a rendering of said disc in its predetermined position is shown on said at least one fluoroscope image; and using said at least one fluoroscope image to position said disc intra-operatively such that it can be disposed in said predetermined disc position. 9. A method according to claim 8 and wherein said artificial disc is disposed in said predetermined disc position by ensuring that said intra-operative position in said fluoroscope image essentially coincides with said display of said predetermined disc position. 10. A method according to claim 8 and wherein said predetermined disc position is obtained from predefined geometrical information about the optimum position. 11. A method according to claim 8 and wherein said predetermined disc position is obtained by adjusting said disc position in said CT model such that facet joints between said vertebrae are in minimally stressed positions. 12. A method according to claim 8 and further comprising the steps of: providing at least four pins, each of said pins comprising at least two radio-opaque markers disposed at known positions along their length; attaching at least two of said pins to each of said vertebrae, such that said pins define the three-dimensional position of said vertebrae in said at least one fluoroscope image; utilizing the relationship between said known positions of said target and said pins to compute a transformation between the position of said target and said pins; and removing said target to facilitate access to said vertebrae. 13. A method according to claim 8 and further comprising the steps of: providing at least two pins, each of said pins comprising at least three radio-opaque markers disposed at known positions along said pins; attaching at least one of said pins to each of said vertebrae, such that said pins define the three-dimensional position of said vertebrae in said at least one fluoroscope image; utilizing the relationship between said known positions of said target and said pins to compute a transformation between the position of said target and said pins; and removing said target to facilitate access to said vertebrae. 14. A system for intraoperative placing an artificial disc at a predetermined position between two vertebrae of a subject, said system comprising: a computing system having a storage medium including a set of preoperative CT data showing said two vertebrae and said predetermined position of said disc between them; at least one three-dimensional target having radio-opaque markers adapted to be attached to at least one of said vertebrae to define the position of said vertebra in at least one intra-operative fluoroscope image of the subject; a jig adapted to be attached to at least one of said vertebrae and supporting a reproducibly alignable pointer; and a registration system for relating said at least one intra-operative fluoroscope image to said set of preoperative CT data, such that said predetermined disc position and said pointer are displayed in said at least one fluoroscope image of the subject, thereby enabling use of said pointer for intraoperative placement of said artificial disc in its predetermined position without the need to view a fluoroscope image. 15. A system for intraoperatively inserting a surgical tool into a predetermined position at a surgical site of a subject, said system comprising: a computing system having a storage medium including a set of preoperative CT data showing said surgical site and said predetermined position of said surgical tool; at least one three-dimensional target having radio-opaque markers adapted to be attached to a feature of said subject at said surgical site to define the position of said feature in at least one intra-operative fluoroscope image of the subject; and a system for registering said at least one intra-operative fluoroscope image to said set of preoperative CT data, such that said predetermined position of said surgical tool is displayed in at least one fluoroscope image of the subject, thereby enabling intraoperative insertion of said surgical tool into said predetermined position. 16. A system for intraoperatively placing an artificial disc at a predetermined position between two vertebrae of a subject, said system comprising: a computing system having a storage medium including a set of preoperative CT data showing said two vertebrae and said predetermined position of said disc between them; a tool for intra-operative insertion of said artificial disc; a registration system for relating said at least one intra-operative fluoroscope image to said set of preoperative CT data, such that said predetermined disc position is displayed in said at least one fluoroscope image of the subject, thereby enabling intraoperative placement of said artificial disc in said predetermined disc position; and a set of pins for attaching to said two vertebrae, said pins comprising a plurality of radio-opaque markers disposed along their lengths, such that said pins define the three-dimensional position of said two vertebrae in said fluoroscope images of the subject. 17. A system according to claim 16 wherein said set of pins for attaching to said two vertebrae comprises either of: at least two pins attached to each of said two vertebrae, each of said at least two pins comprising at least two radio-opaque markers disposed along their length, or at least one pin attached to each of said two vertebra, each of said at least one pin comprising at least three radio-opaque markers disposed at known positions along its length. 18. A system according to claim 16 wherein said predetermined position of said disc is obtained from predefined geometrical information about the position. 19. A system according to claim 16 wherein said predetermined position of said disc is obtained by adjusting said disc position in a model obtained from said preoperative CT data, such that facet joints between said vertebrae are in minimally stressed positions. 20. A system according to claim 16 wherein said set of pins for attaching to said two vertebrae comprises at least one pin attached to each of said two vertebra, said at least one pin being devoid of protruding radio-opaque markers, and having a known orientation and thickness, such that said pins define the three-dimensional position of said two vertebrae in said fluoroscope images of the subject. 21. A system according to claim 16 wherein said set of pins for attaching to said two vertebrae comprises at least one pin attached to each of said two vertebra, said at least one pin being devoid of protruding radio-opaque markers, and having a known orientation and shape, such that said pins define the three-dimensional position of said two vertebrae in said fluoroscope images of the subject. 22. A system according to claim 16 wherein said set of pins for attaching to said two vertebrae comprises at least 3 pins attached to each of said two vertebrae, each of said pins comprising one radio-opaque marker disposed along its length. 23. A method of intraoperative positioning an artificial disc between two vertebrae of a subject, said method comprising the steps of: generating from a preoperative set of CT data, a CT model showing said vertebrae; predetermining a position for said disc between said vertebrae, and defining said position in said model; attaching a set of pins to said two vertebrae, said pins comprising a plurality of radio-opaque markers disposed along their length; generating at least one fluoroscope image of the subject, including at least part of said two vertebrae and said pins, such that the three-dimensional positions of said vertebrae are defined in said at least one fluoroscope image by means of said pins; registering said at least one fluoroscope image of the subject with said CT model, such that a rendering of said disc in its predetermined position is shown on said at least one fluoroscope image; and using said at least one fluoroscope image to position said disc intra-operatively such that it can be disposed in said predetermined disc position. 24. A method according to claim 23, wherein said set of pins attached to said two vertebrae comprises either of: at least two pins attached to each of said two vertebrae, each of said at least two pins comprising at least two radio-opaque markers disposed along their length, or at least one pin attached to each of said two vertebra, each of said at least one pin comprising at least three radio-opaque markers disposed at known positions along its length. 25. A method according to claim 23 and wherein said artificial disc is disposed in said predetermined disc position by ensuring that said intra-operative position in said fluoroscope image essentially coincides with said display of said predetermined disc position. 26. A method according to claim 23 and wherein said predetermined disc position is obtained from predefined geometrical information about the optimum position. 27. A method according to claim 23 and wherein said predetermined disc position is obtained by adjusting said disc position in said CT model such that facet joints between said vertebrae are in minimally stressed positions. 