A control for an electric motor which drives a robotic appendage toward and into engagement with an object. In one embodiment, the control causes the robotic appendage to approach the object initially at a relatively high speed to expedite the work operation and then at a relatively low speed prior to impact to protect the object and the motor. A timer is used to determine when to alter the motor speed.
Claims We claim: 1. A control for a robotic apparatus having an electric motor and an end effector driven by said motor to engage an object, said control comprising: a first electrical power means for driving said motor, a second electrical power means for driving said motor, said second power means driving said motor in the same direction as said first power means but at lower torque than said first power means, and means for coupling said first power means for a time to said motor to cause said end effector to move toward said object and for decoupling said first power means from said motor and coupling said second power means to said motor later, said means for coupling and for decoupling including a timing means for initiating the decoupling of said first power means and the coupling of said second power means before said end effector engages said object. 2. A control as set forth in claim 1, wherein said first power means comprises means for applying voltage to said motor and said second power means comprises means for applying voltage to said motor, said voltage applied by said second power means being less than said voltage applied by said first power means but sufficient to cause said end effector to continue moving toward said object. 3. A control as set forth in claim 2 wherein said voltage of said first driving means is approximately constant most of the time that it is applied to said motor and said voltage of said second power means is approximately constant most of the time that it is applied to said motor. 4. A control as set forth in claim 2 further comprising means for varying the voltage applied to said motor by said second power means. 5. A control as set forth in claim 1 wherein said timing means includes means for varying the time during which said first power means is coupled to said motor before said second power means is coupled to said motor. 6. A control as set forth in claim 1 wherein said timing means includes a capacitor and means for progressively changing the voltage of said capacitor while said first power means is coupled to said motor and wherein said means for decoupling said first power means from said motor and coupling said second power means to said motor is initiated when the voltage of said capacitor reaches a predetermined level. 7. A control as set forth in claim 1 further comprising: a third electrical power means for driving said motor in the opposite direction as said first and second power means, a fourth electrical power means for driving said motor in the opposite direction as said first and second power means, said fourth power means driving said motor at lower torque than said third power means, and wherein, said means for initiating the coupling of said first power means and the decoupling of said second power means includes means for initiating decoupling of said second power means from said motor and coupling of said third power means to said motor while said end effector engages said object to cause said end effector to move away from said object, and for initiating decoupling of said third power means from said motor and coupling of said fourth power means to said motor later to reduce drive current through said motor. 8. A control as set forth in claim 7 wherein said first power means comprises means for applying voltage to said motor, said second power means comprises means for applying voltage to said motor, said voltage applied by said second power means being less than said voltage applied by said first power means said third power means comprises means for applying voltage to said motor and said fourth power means comprises means for applying said voltage applied by said fourth power means being less than said voltage applied by said third power means. 9. A control as set forth in claim 1 wherein said initiation of said decoupling of said first power means and said coupling of said second power means occurs shortly after said end effector engages said object. 10. A robotic apparatus for gripping an object, said apparatus comprising: an end effector including at least two fingers movable relative to one another, a motor for effecting relative movement of said fingers toward one another, a first source of voltage for driving said motor, said voltage being approximately constant during most of the time that it is applied to said motor, a second source of voltage for driving said motor, the voltage of said second source being less in magnitude than the voltage of said first source, being the same polarity and being approximately constant during most of the time that said second voltage is applied to said motor, and means for applying the voltage of said first source for a time to said motor to effect relative finger movement toward one-another and for applying the voltage of said second source to said motor at a later time before said fingers contact said object to cause said fingers to contact said object with a lesser force. 11. A robotic apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein said means for applying the voltages comprises a timer which initiates the application of the voltage of said second source to said motor. 12. A robotic apparatus as set forth in claim 11 wherein said timer comprises a capacitor, and means for progressively changing the voltage of said capacitor while the voltage of said first source is applied to said motor, and wherein said means for applying the voltage of said second source at said later time is initiated when the voltage of said capacitor reaches a predetermined level. 13. A robotic apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein said motor is reversible and said end effector further comprises a lead screw means for coupling said lead screw to said motor, an embracing nut threadably received by said lead screw for reciprocal movement by said motor, said fingers being coupled to said embracing nut so that when said lead screw turns in one direction said fingers move toward one another and when said lead screw turns in the opposite direction said fingers move away from one another. 14. A robotic apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said first and second sources of voltage drive said motor forwardly, and further comprising a third source of voltage for reversibly driving said motor, a fourth source of voltage for reversibly driving said motor, the voltage of said fourth source being less in magnitude than the voltage of said third source, and means for applying the voltage of said third source to said motor to cause said fingers to move away from each other and for applying the voltage of said fourth source to said motor in place of the voltage of said third source at a later time. 15. A robotic apparatus as set forth in claim 10 wherein said motor is a D.C. motor. 16. A robotic apparatus for gripping an object, said apparatus comprising: an end effector including at least two movable fingers, a motor for moving said fingers toward one another, a first source of voltage for driving said motor in one direction, a second source of voltage for driving said motor in said direction, the voltage of said second source being less in magnitude than the voltage of said first source, and means for applying the voltage of said first source to said motor to cause said fingers to move toward one another and for applying the voltage of said second source to said motor in place of the voltage of said first source while said fingers contact said object whereby to cause said end effector to grip said object with a lesser force. 17. A robotic apparatus as set forth in claim 16 further comprising a timer which initiates the application of the voltage of said second source to said motor. 18. A method for engaging an object with a robotic apparatus having an end effector, said end effector having a movable appendage and said movable appendage being driven by a motor, said method comprising the steps of: applying a first, relatively high voltage to said motor for a predetermined time to cause said appendage to approach said object at a relatively high speed, and after said predetermined time, applying a second, relatively low voltage to said motor to cause said appendage to approach said object at a lesser speed. 19. A method as set forth in claim 18 further comprising the step of: applying a third, relatively high voltage of opposite polarity than that of said first, relatively high voltage to said motor after said appendage has engaged said object to cause said appendage to disengage said object and move away from it. 20. A method as set forth in claim 19 further comprising the step of applying a fourth, relatively low voltage of opposite polarity than that of said second, relatively low voltage to said motor to replace said third relatively high voltage. 