An end effector for use with a robotic mechanism is disclosed which is capable of grasping cylindrical workpieces having a varying diameter off center and holding it with six degrees of freedom. The end effector has a plurality of sets of fingers, each set having three fingers which radially approach and retract from the workpiece with a spacing of 120 degrees between the movement direction of the fingers. The movement of each of the fingers in a set are coplanar, and the planar movement of each set of fingers are parallel with each other. Each finger is actuated by its own hydraulic cylinder which causes it to independently engage the workpiece. The cylinders are hydraulically operated by a hydraulic system having a pressurizing pump for flowing fluid from a tank through a bidirectional valve to a series of pilot operated check valves and then to the cylinders. The setting of the bidirectional valve determines whether the fingers grasp the workpiece or release it. Only after all fingers have made contact with the workpiece does the pressure in the system increase to cause the fingers to grip it with a predetermined force. The pilot operated check valves prevent the fluid from flowing back through them, thus enabling the end effector to support the workpiece without need for continual pump pressure. The bidirectional valve is then centered, so that the pump may be unloaded to save power. By reversing the bidirectional valve, the pilots of the check valves are actuated allowing flow reversal which retracts the fingers.
Claims We claim: 1. An end effector for a robotic mechanism to enable prehensile operation on a cylindrical part having an outer surface and an axis, comprising: a housing being attached to the robotic mechanism; a plurality of sets of fingers assembled in the housing, each set containing at least three elongated fingers having first and second ends, the first ends thereof extending from the housing and each set being adapted for coplanar movement in directions radially towards and away from the axis of the cylindrical part; a plurality of piston operated hydraulic cylinders being fixedly mounted within the housing, each hydraulic cylinder having a piston and a piston rod, the piston rod being connected to the piston at one end with the opposite end portion protruding from the hydraulic cylinder, each hydraulic cylinder being used to extend and withdraw its respective piston rod, there being one cylinder for each finger; means for connecting the distal end of each protruding piston rod end portion to a respective one of the finger second ends; hydraulic circuit means for individually and concurrently applying a fluid pressure to the cylinder pistons to cause them to extend their piston rods independently of each other, so that each finger first end is moved independently towards and into contact with the outer surface of the part whether it has a varying diameter or not; and means to cause the finger first ends contacting the outer surface of the part to apply and hold a predetermined prehensile force thereon, so that the robotic mechanism may move the part to the desired destination. 2. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the housing has parallel front and back support plates and first and second ends; wherein the finger first ends extend from the first end of the housing and the housing second end is connected to the robotic mechanism; wherein the finger first ends of each set of fingers contact the part substantially 120 degrees apart; wherein the coplanar movement of each set of fingers are parallel with each other; and wherein the hydraulic circuit means prevents the finger first ends from applying a force on the part until after all of the finger first ends are in contact therewith by providing the fluid pressure to each of the cylinder pistons in parallel with each other. 3. The end effector of claim 2, wherein the hydraulic circuit means comprises: a bidirectional valve for directing a flow of the pressurized fluid therethrough and in one of two directions at a time, one direction being to one side of each of the cylinder's pistons for part prehension and the other direction being to the other side of each of the cylinder's pistons for part release, the bidirectional valve having a centered position whereat flow of the fluid therethrough is prevented; and a series of pilot operated check valves, one for each cylinder and connected in parallel to the bidirectional valve, whereby after prehension of the part, the pilot operated check valves prevent fluid from flowing back through them, thus supporting the part without need of continual fluid flow, thereby allowing the bidirectional valve to be centered, so that power is saved without loss of prehensile force on said part. 4. The end effector of claim 2, wherein the first ends of two fingers of each set of fingers rotate toward and away from each other and have a predetermined curvature on their confronting first ends, so that the points of finger contact with the part to be grasped are substantially 120 degrees apart from the part axis, regardless of part diameter; and wherein the first end of the third finger of each set of fingers approaches and retracts radially from the part, so that the third finger point of contact with the part is 120 degrees from each of the other two fingers of the set of fingers. 