An article transfer apparatus for transferring and assembling a television receiver back cover from a conveyor to a receiver cabinet. The apparatus is robotically operated and includes a set of pneumatically operated suction cups which are aligned to displace along axes which intersect at a common point to avoid torquing and misorienting the cover during the transfer. Vacuum is applied to the cups to assist in gripping the cover and for sensing a misgripped status. A fail-safe system locks the grip on the cover in case of power failure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An article transfer apparatus comprising: a support; a plurality of spaced actuating means secured to the support, each having extended and retracted states and including a member displaceable along a corresponding axis, said axes intersecting substantially at a common point spaced from said support, said point lying in a plane; and a gripping member secured to each displaceable member and facing said common point in a operating position for gripping an article located on said axes when said actuating means are extended, each gripping member lying spaced from and facing the same side of said plane; said support comprising a base member and a pair of spaced legs secured to the base member to form a U-shaped structure, a separate actuating means secured to each of said legs spaced from said base member and to said base member, said actuating means lying in a plane; a first element secured to one of said legs for emitting a light beam to the other of said legs, said beam being normal to the axis of said base member actuating means, and beam sense means secured to the other of said legs in the path of said beam for generating a control signal in response to said beam impinging thereon. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said axes are aligned coplanar. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said gripping member includes a suction cup, said apparatus further including vacuum forming means coupled to said gripping member for selectively evacuating said cup to thereby lock the gripping member to the article, sense means for sensing the gripped state of said member and means coupled to said support and means for sensing responsive to the sensed value of the vacuum at said gripping member for indicating when the vacuum value is below a given threshold value. 4. An article transfer apparatus comprising: a U-shaped support having a base member and first and second legs; a first fluid operated piston secured to the base member arranged to displace along a first axis; a second fluid operated piston secured to the first leg and arranged to displace along a second axis; a third fluid operated piston secured to the second leg and arranged to displace along a third axis, said first, second, and third axes lying in a plane and intersecting substantially at a point; a suction cup secured to each said piston and facing said point; and control means for selectively displacing said support to respective article receiving and transfer positions and for displacing said pistons simultaneously toward and away from said point. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein each said cups define a suction volume, said apparatus further including means for selectively evacuating the suction volume of each said cups in a first mode and for applying a pressurized fluid stream into said suction volume in a second mode. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said fluid is air, said apparatus including means responsive to said pressurized air for creating a vacuum and for coupling said vacuum to said cups and vacuum sense means coupled to said means for selectively evacuating for indicating the presence and absence of said vacuum. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 further including means for sensing the value of the vacuum at said suction volume and means responsive to the sensed value to retain said pistons in the position toward said point and the support in the article receive position. 8. The apparatus of claim 4 further including beam emitting means coupled to one of said legs and beam sense means secured to the other leg in the path of the beam emitted by said emitting means for generating a signal in response to said beam incident thereon, and indicating means coupled to said base means responsive to said signal for selectively manifesting the interruption of said beam. 