A lifting and rotating device for use with a workpiece transport system is disclosed. The device lifts a workpiece carrier off of a conveyor system and accurately rotates the workpiece carrier to a stop position located at any position throughout 360.degree. of rotation from the start position to provide access to any pre-determined side of the workpiece supported on the workpiece carrier from a common point at the work station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In a workpiece transport system for transporting a workpiece carrier to an away from a work station, a workpiece carrier, means for conveying said workpiece carrier along a path to and away from the work station, means for lifting and rotating said workpiece carrier at said work station to provide access to any predetermined side of a workpiece support on said workpiece carrier from a common point at said work station, said means for lifting and rotating said workpiece including a support member constructed and arranged to engage said workpiece carrier from the underside thereof, direct drive lift means for moving said support member vertically with a high degree of accuracy between a rest position and a raised position along a vertical axis, said lift means including a first actuating means having a vertically movable actuating member and means connecting said actuating member directly to said support member, and direct drive rotation means for rotating said support member with a high degree of accuracy about said vertical axis from a start position in a direct path of travel to a precise predetermined stop position located at any of a plurality of angular positions throughout 360.degree. of rotation from said start position, said rotation means including a second actuating means having a rotatable actuating member and means engaging said rotatable actuating member directly to said support member. 2. In a workpiece transport system according to claim 1 wherein said rotation means comprises a direct current motor of a direct drive construction controllable to rotate in steps to any precise location throughout 360.degree. of rotation and microprocessor means for controlling operation of said motor to control the positioning and the acceleration and deceleration thereof. 3. A transport system according to claim 2 wherein said motor is controllable to rotate in said steps throughout 360.degree. of rotation with an accuracy of at least about ten arc seconds, said motor and said control means therefor comprising a complete closed loop servo motor system with direct feedback. 4. In a workpiece transport system for transporting a workpiece carrier to and away from a work station, a workpiece carrier, means for conveying said workpiece carrier along a path to and away from the work station, means for lifting and rotating said workpeice carrier at said work station to provide access to any predetermined side of workpiece supported on said workpiece carrier from a common point at said work station, said means for lifting and rotating said workpiece including a support member constructed and arranged to engage said workpiece carrier from the underside thereof, direct drive lift means for moving said support member vertically with a high degrees of accuracy between a rest position and a raised position along a vertical axis, and direct drive rotation means for rotating said support member with a high degree of accuracy about said vertical axis from a start position to a stop position located at any of a plurality of angular positions throughout 360.degree. of rotation from said start position, said lift means comprising a non-rotatable shaft member movable along a vertical axis, means for mounting said support member directly onto the upper end of said shaft member for conjoint movement therewith along said vertical axis and for rotation of said support member relative to said shaft member about said vertical axis. 5. A transport system according to claim 4 wherein said rotation means comprises an annular member mounted concentrically with respect to said non-rotatable shaft member and fore rotation relative thereto about said vertical axis, means for providing direct engagement between said annular member and as support member for causing a direct drive conjoint rotational movement of said annular member and said support member, and a motor means for driving said annular member through said rotational movement thereof. 6. A transport system according to claim 5 wherein said mounting means includes bearing means secured to said support member and positioned in sliding contact with said shaft member to permit relative movement between said support member and said non-rotatable shaft member. 7. A transport system according to claim 4 wherein said motor is controllable to rotate in said steps throughout 360.degree. of rotation with an accuracy of at least about ten arc seconds. 8. In a workpiece transport system for transporting a workpiece carrier to and away from a work station, a workpiece carrier, means for conveying said workpiece carrier along a path to and away from the work station, means for lifting and rotating said workpiece carrier at said work station to provide access to any predetermined side of a workpiece supported on said workpiece carrier from a common point at said work station, said means for lifting and rotating said workpiece including a support member constructed and arranged to engage said workpiece carrier from the underside thereof, lift means for moving said support member vertically between a rest position and a raised position along a vertical axis, rotation means for rotating said support member about said vertical axis from a start position to a stop position located at any position throughout 360.degree. of rotation from said start position, said rotation means comprising a direct current drive motor having a rotor drivingly connected to said support member for rotating the same between said start and stop positions thereof, and means for controlling said motor to cause movement of said rotor to rotate said support member to any of a plurality of pre-determined angular positions. 9. A transport system according to claim 8 wherein said motor control means is constructed and arranged to control said motor to rotate in either direction. 10. A transport system according to claim 9 wherein said motor control means is constructed and arranged to control the velocity of rotation of said rotor to cause acceleration and deceleration thereof at the end portions of a rotation movement. 11. A transport system according to claim 10 wherein said motor control means comprises a motor driver unit constructed and arranged to control the energization of said motor and a programmed computer means for controlling operation of said motor driver unit. 12. A transport system according to claim 11 wherein said control means includes resolver means for detecting the rotative position of said motor rotor and providing feedback signals indicative of the position of said rotor and the velocity thereof. 13. In a workpiece transport system for transporting a workpiece carrier to and away from a work station, a workpiece carrier, means for conveying said workpiece carrier along a path to and away from the work station, means for lifting and rotating said workpiece carrier at said work station to provide access to any predetermined side of a workpiece supported on said workpiece carrier from a common point at said work station, said means for lifting and rotating said workpiece including a support member constructed and arranged to engage said workpiece carrier from the underside thereof, direct drive lift means for moving said support member vertically with a high degree of accuracy between a rest position and a raised position along a vertical axis, and direct drive rotation means for rotating said support member with a high degree of accuracy about said vertical axis from a start position to a stop position located at any of a plurality of angular positions through 360.degree. of rotation from said start position, said lift means including a fluid-operated cylinder means having an actuating rod connected directly to said support member for causing said vertical movement by a direct drive arrangement. 14. A workpiece transport system according to claim 13 wherein said cylinder means comprises a pneumatic cylinder. 15. In a workpiece transport system for transporting a workpiece carrier to and away from a work station, a workpiece carrier, means for conveying said workpiece carrier along a path to and away from the work station, means for lifting and rotating said workpiece carrier at said work station to provide access to any predetermined side of a workpiece supported on said workpiece carrier from a commonpoint at said work station, said means for lifting and rotating said workpiece including a support member constructed and arranged to engage said workpiece carrier from the underside thereof, direct drive lift means for moving said support member vertically with a high degree of accuracy between a rest position and a raised position along a vertical axis, direct drive rotation means for rotating said support member with a high degree of accuracy about said vertical axis from a start position to a stop position located at any of a plurality of angular positions throughout 360.degree. of rotation from said start position, means for controlling the vertical movement of said support member, and means for controlling the rotational movement of said support member to cause the same to travel from a start position less than 360.degree. of rotation to position said workpiece carrier at a precise predetermined angular stop position at said work station. 16. A transport system according to claim 15 wherein said motor is controllable to rotate in said steps throughout 360.degree. of rotation with an accuracy of at least about ten arc seconds. 