A high-density multichannel microwire electrode array is disclosed. The array can comprise a variable number of electrodes. A method of assembling the array is further disclosed. Additionally, a plurality of devices employing the array are disclosed, including an intelligent brain pacemaker and a closed loop brain machine interface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An intelligent brain pacemaker for a mammal having a cranial nerve not associated with an autonomic function comprising: (a) a multichannel microwire electrode array for acquiring neural signals from a plurality of single neurons comprising: (i) one or more connectors having contacts spaced apart about 0.030 inches (center to center) or less; (ii) one or more printed circuit boards comprising: (1) a plurality of conductive traces spaced apart about 0.015 inches (center to center) or less; and (2) a plurality of conductive pads in communication with the conductive traces and in electrical connection with the connectors; and (iii) a plurality of microwire electrodes, each microwire electrode having a second end in electrical connection with one of the plurality of conductive traces and a flexible first end, the first end extending away from the printed circuit board and comprising an exposed portion for transmission of electrical signals from with neural tissue when the exposed portion is positioned in close proximity with an individual neuron; (b) a seizure detector adapted to detect seizure-related brain activity of a mammal in real-time, the seizure detector being electrically connected to the multichannel microwire electrode array; (c) one or more nerve stimulators adapted to provide electrical stimulation to a mammal's cranial nerve not associated with an autonomic function, to terminate or ameliorate the seizure, the one or more nerve simulators being electrically connected to the seizure detector; and (d) a power source for providing power to the intelligent brain pacemaker. 2. The intelligent brain pacemaker of claim 1, wherein the microwire electrodes comprise a material selected from the group consisting of stainless steel, tungsten, noble metals, conductive alloys and conductive polymers. 3. The intelligent brain pacemaker of claim 1, wherein the microwire electrodes are substantially coated with a material selected from the group consisting of TEFLON.RTM., S-Isonel, polymers, plastics and non-conductive materials. 4. The intelligent brain pacemaker of claim 1, wherein the one or more printed circuit boards are flexible and about 0.01 inch thick. 5. The intelligent brain pacemaker of claim 1, wherein the one or more printed circuit boards are substantially rigid and about 0.08 inches thick. 6. The intelligent brain pacemaker of claim 1, wherein the one or more printed circuit boards comprise a plurality of the circuit boards secured together in a superimposed stacked relationship. 7. The intelligent brain pacemaker of claim 1, wherein the one or more printed circuit boards each comprise one or more removable support tabs. 8. The intelligent brain pacemaker of claim 1, wherein the conductive traces are substantially insulated. 9. The intelligent brain pacemaker of claim 1, wherein the one or more connectors are zero insertion force (ZIF) connectors. 10. The intelligent brain pacemaker of claim 1, wherein the one or more connectors are low insertion force (LIF) connectors. 11. The intelligent brain pacemaker of claim 1, wherein the one or more connectors comprise a plurality of connectors soldered to the plurality of conductive pads. 12. The intelligent brain pacemaker of claim 1, wherein the one or more printed circuit boards are substantially planar. 