A method of installing an engine block heater includes the provision of an O-ring carried by the cylindrical body of the heater. The heater also includes a flange portion with a passage therein. The engine block wall is provided with a threaded opening located adjacent to the typically found aperture in the engine block. The heater can be easily installed by aligning the passage in the heater flange with the opening in the engine block and then inserting the body into the aperture such that the O-ring seal engages the aperture wall to provide a sealing engagement therebetween. The heater can be secured by way of a fastener passing through the flange passage which is threaded into the engine block opening.
Claims I claim: 1. A method of installing an engine block heater into an aperture of an engine block of a fluid cooled engine, said engine block heater having a body portion having a flange portion extending therefrom with a passage provided therein, comprising the steps of: (a) aligning the body portion of said heater with the aperture within said block; (b) aligning the passage within a flange portion of said heater with a screw threaded opening within said block; (c) inserting said heater body portion into said aperture in the block; (d) placing a fastener through said passage and into said screw threaded opening in said block; and (e) rotating said fastener into said screw threaded opening, thereby securing said heater within the aperture in said block. 2. The method as defined by claim 1, wherein said step of aligning said passage comprises the steps of: (a) inserting a probe through said passage; (b) aligning said probe with said screw threaded opening within said block and; (c) withdrawing said probe. 3. The method as defined by claim 1 wherein at least steps a-c are carried out by an automated robot. 4. The method as defined by claim 3 wherein steps d and e are carried out by an automated robot. 5. A method of installing an engine block heater into an engine block having a cylindrical aperture defined by an inner wall extending substantially transversely to a face of the engine block, said method comprising: providing the engine block heater with a substantially cylindrical body portion having an electrical heating element extending from one side thereof, said body portion having a flange plate extending radially therefrom with a passage therein; placing a seal on outer walls of the cylindrical body of the engine block heater; forming a threaded opening in the engine block adjacent to the aperture therein; aligning the passage in the flange of the engine block heater with the opening in the engine block; moving the heater towards the face of the engine block until the heater is inserted into the aperture while maintaining alignment between the passage and the opening, with said seal engaging the inner wall of the aperture to provide a sealing engagement therebetween; and using a fastener passing through the passage in the flange and the opening in the engine block to secure the heater to the engine block. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said seal is an O-ring, and wherein the heater is installed automatically by a robot. 