Dynamic control of the motion of a plurality of robots (12a and 12b) is accomplished by checking for interference if each robot were to traverse an incremental portion of its programmed path segment, the incremental portion being at least as long as the distance required for the robot to stop. Should there be no interference, each robot is allowed to traverse the incremental path length portion. Otherwise, the robot having the highest priority is enabled to reverse its incremental path segment portion while the other robots which would otherwise interfere are ordered to take evasive action, either to stop if moving, or to move away if stopped. Periodic checks are made for an interference condition at a sufficiently rapid rate so that each non-interfering robot can traverse successive incremental path segment portions in a smooth manner.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for dynamically controlling the movement of each of a plurality of robots, each programmed to travel at least one path segment at a preselected velocity and acceleration, to avoid an interference with other robots, comprising the steps of: (a) independently assigning to each of the robots a priority with respect to an order of movement of said robot relative to the other robots; (b) checking the likelihood that each robot, if it traverses a next successive incremental portion of its path segment, will interfere with every other robot; (c) enabling each robot which is found not to interfere with any of the others, to traverse the next successive incremental path segment portion; otherwise, (d) for each of the robots found likely to interfere with each other, enabling the robot having a priority higher than every other robot to traverse its next successive incremental path segment portion and causing each interfering robot having a lower priority to alter its motion to avoid interfering with said robot having a higher priority; and (e) repeatedly executing the steps (a)-(d). 2. The method according to claim 1 wherein the step of checking for the likelihood of an interference comprises the steps of: (a) establishing the area that each robot would sweep out were the robot to traverse its next incremental path segment portion; (b) creating a polygon to circumscribe the area swept out by each robot; and (c) checking whether the polygon associated with each robot intersects the polygon associated with another robot. 3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the length of each successive incremental path segment portion is at least as long as the distance required for the robot to stop plus the distance that the robot would travel during the interval prior to when the likelihood of interference between the robots would be checked again. 4. The method according to claim 1 wherein each lower priority robot, which is found likely to interfere with a higher priority robot, alters its motion to avoid an interference by stopping, if already in motion, so as not to enter a region to be traversed by the higher priority robot; otherwise, if stopped, by moving away from the higher priority robot which is traversing a path segment, a portion of which is already occupied by a lower priority robot. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein each robot not found to interfere with another is enabled by authorizing the robot to continue moving if already in motion, otherwise, to commence moving if at rest. 6. A method for dynamically controlling the movement of each of a plurality of robots, each energized through an umbilical cord with electrical signals so that each travels at least one rectilinear path segment at a preselected velocity and acceleration, to avoid an interference with other robots, comprising the steps of: (a) independently assigning to each of the robots a priority with respect to an order of movement of said robot relative to the other robots; (b) checking the likelihood that each robot, if it traverses a next successive incremental portion of its path segment, will interfere with any other robot or with its associated umbilical cord; (c) enabling each robot which is found not to interfere, to traverse the next successive incremental path segment portion; otherwise, (d) for each of the robots found likely to interfere with another, enabling the robot having a priority higher than each other robot to traverse its next successive incremental path segment portion and causing each interfering robot having a lower priority to alter its motion to avoid interfering with the said robot having a higher priority; and (e) repeatedly executing the steps (a)-(d). 7. The method according to claim 6 wherein the step of checking for the likelihood of an interference comprises the steps of: (a) establishing the area that each robot and its associated umbilical cord would sweep out were the robot to traverse its next incremental path segment portion; (b) creating a polygon to circumscribe the area swept out by each robot and its umbilical cord; and (c) checking whether the polygon associated with each robot intersects the polygon associated with another robot. 8. The method according to claim 6 wherein the length of each successive incremental path segment portion is at least as long as the distance required for the robot to stop plus the distance that the robot would travel during the interval prior to when the likelihood of interference between the robots would be checked again. 9. The method according to claim 6 wherein each lower priority robot, which is found likely to interfere with a higher priority robot, alters its motion to avoid an interference by stopping, if already in motion so as not to enter a region to be traversed by the higher priority robot; otherwise, if stopped, by moving away from the higher priority robot which is traversing a path segment, a portion of which is already occupied by a lower priority robot. 10. The method according to claim 6 wherein each robot not found to interfere with another is enabled by authorizing the robot to continue moving if already in motion; otherwise, to commence moving if at rest. 