A stepping motor control and driving circuit is provided to control stepping motors used to move a manipulator robot. The stepping motor control receives digital desired velocity and acceleration data from a controller computer and uses those instructions to generate and maintain appropriate control signals. The drive circuit, operating in response to the control signal, uses a summing amplifier responsive to output voltage and current to control the output impedance of the circuit.
Claims I claim: 1. A stepping motor control circuit for operating a stepping motor under the control of a digital computer, the stepping motor having at all times a current velocity and a current position, the circuit comprising an input latch connected to receive two input values from the computer, one input value being desired velocity and the other input value being rate of change of velocity; a velocity register holding a value corresponding to the current velocity of the stepping motor; an adder to add the value of the rate of change of velocity to the value in the velocity register; a position register holding a value corresponding to the current position of the stepping motor; an adder to add the value of the current velocity to the value in the position register; a digital-to-analog converter to convert the value in the position register to an analog voltage for the motor; and a drive circuit connected to the output of the digital-to-analog converter to receive the analog output thereof and amplify it to drive the stepping motor. 2. A control circuit as claimed in claim 1 wherein the input values of desired velocity and rate of change of velocity are each sixteen bit values and wherein the input latch comprises four eight bit latches. 3. A control circuit as claimed in claim 2 wherein each eight bit input latch has connected to it a respective eight bit input buffer latch, the input buffer latches all connected to a common data bus and also connected to be selectively enabled by the computer to receive data. 4. A control circuit as claimed in claim 1 wherein there is a comparator connected to the input latch and the velocity register to disable the adder adding the rate of change of velocity to the velocity register if the value in the velocity register is equal to the value of the desired velocity. 5. A control circuit as claimed in claim 1 wherein there is a velocity output buffer latch connected to the velocity register to hold and present the value in the velocity register to the computer. 6. A control circuit as claimed in claim 1 wherein there is a position output buffer latch connected to the position register to hold and present the value in the position register to the computer. 7. A control circuit as claimed in claim 1 wherein the adder to add the value of the rate of change of velocity to the value in the velocity register is connected so as to add the rate of change of velocity value repetitively to the least significant bits of the value in the velocity register so that the velocity value is incrementally changed. 8. A control circuit as claimed in claim 1 wherein the adder to add the value in the velocity register to the value in the position register is connected so as to add the velocity register value repetitively to the least significant bits of the value in the position register so that the position value is incrementally changed. 9. A control circuit as claimed in claim 1 wherein there is a ROM connected between the position register and the digital-to-analog converter to convert the numerical position value to a radial value. 10. A control circuit as claimed in claim 9 wherein there are two digital-to-analog converters and two ROMs connected so that one ROM generates a sine function and the other a cosine function of the same radial value. 11. A control circuit as claimed in claim 1 wherein the drive circuit includes parallel chopping circuits to alternatively drive the motor. 12. A stepping motor drive circuit to operate a stepping motor with energy from a power supply comprising an input amplifier connected to present a selected input impedance to the motor; a summing feedback amplifier connected to receive feedback proportional to the voltage and current values applied to the motor to generate a chopping signal; a pair of upper and a pair of lower chopping circuits, the upper chopping circuits connected between the power supply and the motor, and the lower chopping circuits connected between the motor and ground, the chopping circuits connected to operate in response to the chopping signal so that only one upper chopping circuit and an opposite lower chopping circuit are operating at any one time. 13. A drive circuit as claimed in claim 12 wherein each upper chopping circuit is not connected to ground, the components therein being only connected to a local ground, so that the upper chopping circuit can function at a fluctuality system voltage. 14. A drive circuit as claimed in claim 13 wherein each upper chopping circuit receives an input through an optical isolater, the input to which is a signal from the opposite lower shipping circuit so that proper synchronous operation of the upper and lower chopping circuits is maintained. 15. A drive circuit as claimed in claim 13 wherein the upper chopping circuit includes its own regulated power supply creating a supply voltage relative to the local ground. 16. A drive circuit as claimed in claim 12 wherein each lower chopping circuit has time delay generator connected to its input to delay turn on of each said lower chopping circuit to ensure that the other lower chopping circuit turns completely off before said chopping circuit. 17. A drive circuit as claimed in claim 12 wherein the voltage feedback to the summing amplifier is provided by a pair of resistors each connected at one end to a respective connection between one of the upper chopping circuits and the motor and at another end to the summing amplifier. 18. A drive circuit as claimed in claim 12 wherein the current feedback to the summing amplifier is provided by feedback resistors connected to a low voltage series resistor in series with the motor. 19. A drive circuit as claimed in claim 12 wherein there are a pair of inductors connected between the chopping circuits and the motor to filter oscillations from the voltage applied to the motor. 