A material transfer system is provided having particular utility in cooperation with a liquid jet abrasive cutting system in which a continuous supply of abrasive, particulate material is required for abrasive cutting operations. Primary and secondary hoppers are provided for containing the abrasive particulate material, and the secondary hopper is suitably located at a position adjacent to the work station and remote from the primary hopper. The secondary hopper is provided with a first chamber and a second, lower chamber positioned beneath the first chamber. Means for evacuating the first chamber but not the second chamber is provided, and a check valve communicates between the upper and lower chambers for preventing communication between the upper and lower chambers upon the evacuation of the upper chamber; when open, the valve provides communication to the lower chamber, under normal atmospheric pressure, in response to the presence of a supply of abrasive, particulate material within the upper chamber portion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for transferring particulate abrasive material to a liquid jet abrasive cutting nozzle, comprising: a primary hopper means for receiving and storing a quantity of the abrasive material; a secondary hopper means Remotely located relative to the primary hopper means for receiving a quantity of the abrasive material, the secondary hopper means having upper and lower chambers; a conduit connected between the primary hopper means and the upper chamber of the secondary hopper means; means for intermittently evacuating the upper chamber while maintaining the lower chamber at substantially atmospheric pressure and for intermittently effecting a differential pressure along the conduit which induces an intermittent flow of abrasive material from the primary hopper, through the conduit, and into the upper chamber of the secondary hopper; valve means, communicating between the upper and lower chambers, for preventing communication between the upper and lower chambers upon the upper chamber being evacuated, and, alternatively, for providing communication between the upper and lower chambers upon the vacuum being released from the upper chamber, whereby the abrasive material within the upper chamber is permitted to pass from the upper chamber, through the valve means, to the lower chamber; and outlet and supply conduit means communicating between the lower chamber and the liquid jet abrasive cutting nozzle, the outlet means being disposed at a location below the lower chamber, and comprising means for ejecting abrasive material from the lower chamber "under atmospheric pressure". in a substantially continuous gravity fed stream uninterrupted during the intermittent flow of abrasive material and during the passage of abrasive material from the upper chamber to the lower chamber, whereby the abrasive material ejected from the lower chamber is permitted to flow through the conduit. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein control means is provided for initiating a vacuum in the upper hopper portion upon the level of abrasive within the lower chamber portion falling below a predetermined level. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the control means comprises means for releasing the vacuum in the upper chamber upon the level of abrasive in the upper chamber rising above a predetermined level. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the control means comprises means for initiating a vacuum in the upper chamber upon the gross weight of the secondary hopper falling below a predetermined level. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the valve means communicating between the upper and lower chambers includes a valve passageway outlet having substantially greater area than the internal cross-sectional area of the outlet conduit means. 6. A method for transferring particulate material from a primary container to a secondary container "remotely located relative to the primary container". comprising: providing partition means in the secondary container for defining upper and lower chambers within the secondary container; providing valve means communicating between the upper and lower chambers; providing a conduit in communication between the upper chamber and the primary container and an air inlet, to the conduit, beyond the primary container; cyclically evacuating the upper chamber and inducing airflow and flow of particulate material from the primary container, through the conduit into the upper chamber while maintaining the valve means in a closed condition to prevent communication between the upper and lower chambers; subsequently, opening the valve means for permitting transfer of particulate material from the upper to the lower chambers by gravitational force, further comprising the step of releasing particulate material from the lower chamber in a substantially continuous stream by gravitational force while maintaining the lower chamber at substantially atmospheric pressure and transferring said particulate material to a workstation, wherein the step of evacuating the upper chamber and inducing airflow and transfer of particulate material from the primary container into the upper chamber is repeatedly accomplished while particulate material remains in the lower chamber and flows therefrom in a substantially continuous stream which is continued during successive cycles of filling of the upper chamber with abrasive. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein during the step of releasing particulate material from the upper to the lower chamber, said material is permitted to flow through the valve means at a flow rate substantially greater than the rate at which particulate material is permitted to flow from the lower chamber to the workstation. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein particulate material is permitted to flow from the lower chamber to the workstation continuously during the step of supplying particulate material to the upper chamber under vacuum and the step of releasing said material to the lower chamber. 9. Apparatus for transferring particulate material, comprising; primary storage means for receiving and storing particulate material; moveable secondary storage means remotely located relative to the primary storage means. for receiving and storing a quantity of particulate material; means for intermittently transferring particulate material from the primary storage means to the secondary storage means; and means for ejecting the particulate material from the secondary storage means under atmospheric pressure as a substantially uninterrupted gravity-fed stream during successive cycles of intermittent transfer of particulate material from the primary storage means to the secondary storage means. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the means for transferring particulate material from the primary storage means to the secondary storage means comprises a vacuum driven transfer means, and wherein the means for ejecting particulate material from the secondary storage means comprises gravity powered ejection means. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the secondary storage means includes a first storage chamber for receiving particulate material from the primary storage means, and a second storage chamber. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, including means for evacuating the first storage chamber while maintaining the second storage chamber at atmospheric pressure. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, including control means for effecting a transfer of particulate material to the first storage chamber upon the level of particulate material in the secondary storage chamber falling below a predetermined level. 