A dosing apparatus includes a feed device for a liquid or pasty medium, which supplies the medium at a given preliminary pressure. A pressure control valve communicates with the feed device, a dosing pump is fluidically connected to the pressure control valve, a driving motor that drives the dosing pump, a discharge valve discharges the medium as a volume flow modifiable over time. A control and regulation device feeds a control signal to the pressure control valve in accordance with a predefined setpoint volume flow value. A comparator of the control and regulation device compares the input and output pressure values, and a control unit modifies the control signal fed to the pressure control valve in order to drive the difference between the input and output pressure values to a given value.
Claims The invention claimed is 1. A method of controlling a dosing device for a liquid or pasty medium, the method which comprises: conveying the medium by a feed device having a predetermined admission pressure and by a pressure regulating valve, downstream of the feed device in a direction of flow, to a dosing pump that is driven by a drive motor having a predetermined speed; and conveying the medium with the dosing pump to an outlet valve, and issuing the medium from the outlet valve as a temporally changeable volume flow; detecting a first pressure value of the medium upstream of the dosing pump; detecting a second pressure value of the medium downstream of the dosing pump; comparing the first pressure value and the second pressure value and altering a setting of the pressure-regulating valve so that a difference between the first pressure value and the second pressure value is driven to a predetermined value; storing, in the form of a characteristic curve, value pairs of different setpoint values of the volume flow and of respectively associated values of an adjustment signal transmitted to the pressure-regulating value at which the difference between the first pressure value and the second pressure value corresponds to the predetermined value; and altering the speed of the drive motor in dependence on a volume flow setpoint value, and altering an associated adjustment signal transmitted to the pressure regulating valve simultaneously with the volume flow setpoint value on the basis of the characteristic curve. 2. The method according to claim 1, which comprises conveying the medium to the outlet valve with a gearwheel pump. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined value for the difference between the first and second pressure value of the medium upstream and downstream of the dosing pump corresponds to zero bar. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the characteristic curve comprises value pairs from differing volume flow setpoint values and values associated therewith for the adjustment signal transmitted to the pressure regulating valve, in which the difference between the first pressure value and the second pressure value of the medium corresponds to the predetermined value. 5. The method according to claim 1, which comprises developing the characteristic curve empirically. 6. The method according to claim 1, which comprises independently supplementing a characteristic curve for a value pair not contained in the characteristic curve for a volume flow setpoint value. 7. The method according to claim 4, which comprises replacing the value pairs and/or the values assigned to the volume flow setpoint values of the characteristic curve for the adjustment signal during current operation of the dosing device by newly obtained values for updating the characteristic curve. 8. The method according to claim 1, which comprises supplementing the characteristic curve between two pairs of values through interpolation. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pressure regulating valve is a closed-loop pressure regulating valve configured to independently regulate the admission pressure, in case of pressure oscillations in the feed device, to a substantially constant value. 10. The method according to claim 1, which comprises additionally detecting the volume flow of the medium by a flow measurement cell provided upstream of the dosing pump to ensure high process safety. 11. A dosing device for carrying out the method according to claim 1, comprising: a feed device for a liquid or pasty medium, said feed device providing the medium with a preset admission pressure; a pressure regulating valve fluidically connected with said feed device; a dosing pump fluidically connected with said pressure regulating valve; a first pressure sensor disposed to detect a inlet-side pressure of the medium upstream of said dosing pump; a second pressure sensor disposed to detect an outlet-side pressure of the medium downstream of said dosing pump; a drive motor disposed to drive said dosing pump; an outlet valve fluidically connected with said dosing pump and configured to issue the medium in a temporally changeable volume flow; a control and regulating device connected to transmit an adjustment signal to said pressure regulating valve in dependence on a pre-set volume flow setpoint value, said control and regulation device containing: a comparison unit for comparing the pressure values detected by said first and second pressure sensors; a control unit for altering the adjustment signal transmitted to said pressure regulating valve so that a difference between the first pressure value and the second pressure value corresponds to a pre-set value; a storage device storing characteristic curves containing value pairs from differing volume flow setpoint values and values assigned thereto for the adjustment signal for which the difference between the first and second pressure value corresponds to the pre-set value; and wherein said drive motor includes a speed regulator, and said control and regulation device transmits to said speed regulator a speed setpoint value associated with the volume flow setpoint value; and wherein, upon input of a new volume flow setpoint value, said control and regulation device simultaneously transmits a pertinent adjustment signal and the speed setpoint value corresponding to the altered volume flow setpoint value, to said pressure regulating valve and to said speed regulator. 12. The dosing device according to claim 11, wherein said control unit is configured to drive the difference between the first pressure value and the second pressure value to zero. 13. The dosing device according to claim 11, wherein said dosing pump is a toothed-wheel pump. 14. An industrial robot, comprising: a robot control device; a dosing device according to claim 11; and wherein the volume flow setpoint value transmitted to the control and regulation device is generated on the basis of a position- and/or velocity-dependent signal output by said robot control device. 15. The industrial robot according to claim 14 configured for applying adhesives or thickeners. 