Peck drilling operations using a drilling tool with a rotatable bit are controlled according to the present invention. A control computer is used to detect various drilling conditions, such as dull or broken bits, transitions between different materials in a workpiece and a breakthrough condition. The control computer continually monitors the thrust and torque applied to the drill bit. A separate feed amp and computer having a pre-programmed feed motion routine for controlling the feeding movement of the drill bit signals the control computer when the bit is in a peck cycle. The control computer is responsive to an indication that the bit is a peck cycle for ignoring the thrust and torque readings during the peck cycle. By determining when the bit is in a peck cycle, the control computer is able to differentiate between a normal peck cycle and other drilling conditions, such as a dull or broken drill bit, transition between materials or breakthrough.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for controlling peck drilling using a drill with a rotatable bit, said apparatus comprising: first motive means for feeding the bit into a workpiece; second motive means for rotating the bit; control means for controlling said first motive means to feed the bit at a predetermined feed rate and said second motive means to rotate the bit at a predetermined rotational rate in accordance with a predetermined set of control parameters; first monitoring means for monitoring thrust applied to the bit and for generating a first electrical signal indicative thereof; second monitoring means for monitoring torque applied to the bit and for generating a second electrical signal indicative thereof; said control means being operable to ignore said first and second electrical signals when the bit is in a peck cycle, wherein feeding movement of the bit is temporarily interrupted, said control means being responsive to either or both of said first and second electrical signals when the bit is not in a peck cycle for detecting a predetermined condition. 2. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein said predetermined condition is a broken bit condition indicating a broken drill bit. 3. Apparatus of claim 2 wherein said broken bit condition is indicated by said thrust being less than a predetermined reference thrust and by the bit not having been in a peck cycle within a predetermined period of time. 4. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein said predetermined condition is a breakthrough condition indicating that the bit has penetrated completely through the workpiece. 5. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein said predetermined condition is a dull bit condition indicated by said thrust exceeding a predetermined thrust threshold and said torque exceeding a predetermined torque threshold. 6. Apparatus of claim 1 wherein said predetermined condition is a transition condition indicating that the bit has encountered a transition between discrete materials in the workpiece. 7. Apparatus of claim 1 further including input means for inputting said predetermined set of said control parameters into said control means. 8. Apparatus of claim 1 further including third monitoring means for determining when the bit is in a peck cycle. 9. A method of controlling peck drilling using a drill with a rotatable bit, said method comprising the steps of: feeding the bit into a workpiece at a predetermined feed rate in accordance with a predetermined set of control parameters; rotating the bit at a predetermined rotational rate in accordance with said predetermined set of control parameters as the bit is fed into the workpiece; monitoring thrust applied to the bit and generating a first electrical signal indicative thereof; monitoring torque applied to the bit and generating a second electrical signal indicative thereof; determining whether the bit is in a peck cycle, wherein feeding movement of the bit is temporarily interrupted, and ignoring said first and second electrical signals when the bit is in a peck cycle; and using either or both of said first and second electrical signals when the bit is not in a peck cycle to detect a predetermined condition. 10. The method of claim 9 further including the step of selecting said predetermined set of control parameters. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein said predetermined condition is a broken bit condition indicating a broken drill bit, said detecting including determining whether said thrust is less than a predetermined reference thrust and whether the bit has been in a peck cycle within a predetermined period of time, said broken bit condition being indicated by said thrust being less than said predetermined reference thrust and by the bit not having been in a peck cycle within said predetermined period of time. 12. Apparatus for controlling peck drilling using a drill with a rotatable bit, said apparatus comprising: first motive means for feeding the bit into a workpiece; second motive means for rotating the bit; control means for controlling said first motive means to feed the bit at a predetermined feed rate and said second motive means to rotate the bit at a predetermined rotational rate in accordance with a predetermined set of control parameters; monitoring means for monitoring selected drill parameters; said control means being operable to ignore said selected drill parameters when the bit is in a peck cycle, wherein feeding movement of the bit is temporarily interrupted, said control means being responsive to said selected drill parameters when the bit is not in a peck cycle for detecting a predetermined condition. 13. Apparatus of claim 12 further including means for determining when the bit is in a peck cycle and for generating an electrical signal indicative thereof, said control means being responsive to said electrical signal. 