A control for a robotic actuator employs a position processor to determine the phase of a pair of electrooptically generated position signals as well as to keep track of the number of whole cycles of the position signals. Whole cycles are tracked using a prediction technique depending upon the continuity of position and velocity. A command processor employing the sensed position produces a velocity signal for driving the robotic actuator. When very slow motion is sensed, the response of the controller is appropriately reduced to maintain a velocity command signal generally in proportion to the motion.
Claims We claim: 1. A position processor for a robotic controller of the type employing first and second sensed position signals having a phase relationship, said phase relationship containing information about a position of an object within a cycle of position, said object being movable over a plurality of cycles of position, comprising: means for comparing phases of said first and second sensed position signals to produce a reported position within a cycle of position; means for producing a predicted position of said object including full cycles of position and a position within a cycle of position; means for differencing said predicted position within a cycle of position and said reported position to produce a position error signal; and means responsive to said position error signal for accumulating a smoothed position signal representing said position of said object. 2. A position processor according to claim 1, wherein said means for comparing phases includes means for compensating for bias in said first and second sensed position signals. 3. A position processor according to claim 2, wherein said means for compensating for bias includes an automatic bias calibrator effective to sense and store first and second values of bias in said first and second sensed position signals at a predetermined reference condition and first and second bias compensators, said first and second bias compensators being effective thereafter to compensate said first and second sensed position signals based on said first and second values of bias. 4. A position processor according to claim 1, wherein said means for predicting a position includes means responsive to said position error signal for accumulating a velocity signal and a predicted position calculator responsive to said smoothed position signal and said velocity signal for producing said predicted position. 5. A position processor according to claim 4, wherein said means for predicting a position includes a reasonableness test circuit effective to produce a position failure signal in response to a predetermined consecutive number of said position error signal exceeding a predetermined value. 6. A position processor according to claim 5, wherein said predetermined consecutive number is at least two. 7. A position processor according to claim 1 or 4, wherein said means for accumulating a smoothed position signal includes a ratio circuit effective to divide said position error signal by a predetermined value before employing it to accumulate said smoothed position signal. 8. A position processor according to claim 4, wherein said means for accumulating a velocity includes a ratio circuit effective to divide said position error signal by a predetermined value before employing it to accumulate said velocity signal. 9. A position processor according to claim 1, wherein said position processor is a digital computer. 10. A position processor according to claim 1, wherein said object is a positioning table, said position is a linear position along an axis of motion of said positioning table, said first and second sensed position signals being cyclically repeated as said positioning table is displaced along said axis. 11. A command processor for a robotic controller of the type employing a sequence of measurements of position of an object, said measurements being spaced apart a predetermined time, comprising: means for differencing a measurement of position and a preceding measurement of position to produce a measured velocity signal; means for producing a velocity command signal; means for differencing said measured velocity signal and said velocity command signal to produce a velocity error signal, said velocity error signal being usable for driving said object; means for counting a number of consecutive ones of said predetermined times during which said measured velocity signal is zero; and means for slowing change of said measured velocity signal in dependence on said number. 12. A command processor according to claim 11, wherein said means for slowing a change employs a relationship ##EQU4## Where: V.sub.N is measured velocity signal at a present time V.sub.N-1 is measured velocity signal at a preceding time V.sub.E is a difference between V.sub.N and V.sub.N-1 T is a number of consecutive preceding predetermined times during which V.sub.N is zero f(T) is a function which increases with T. 13. A command processor for a robotic controller of the type employing a sequence of measurements of position of an object, said measurements being spaced apart a predetermined time, comprising: means for differencing a measurement of position and a preceding measurement of position to produce a measured velocity signal; means for producing a velocity command signal; means for differencing said measured velocity signal and said velocity command signal to produce a velocity error signal, said velocity error signal being usable for driving said object; and a velocity bias compensator effective to sense and store a non-zero value of said measured velocity signal at a time when said velocity command signal should be zero and to subsequently compensate said velocity command signal with the stored value to compensate for velocity bias. 14. A home position processor for a robotic controller of the type employing a home position signal for sensing a home position of an object, comprising: means for moving said object through a search range containing said home position; means for storing an extreme value of said home position signal; means for comparing a new value of said home position signal with a previously stored extreme value and for replacing said previously stored extreme value with said new value if said new value exceeds said previously stored extreme value; and means for storing a number associated with a position of each new value which is stored, a number stored at the completion of said search range being associated with the most extreme value of said home position signal and representing said home position. 15. A method of determining a home position in a robotic controller of the type employing a home position signal for sensing a home position of an object, compris- ing: moving said object through a search range containing said home position; storing an extreme value of said home position signal; comparing a new value of said home position signal with a previously stored extreme value and replacing said previously stored extreme value with said new value if said new value exceeds said previously stored extreme value; and storing a number associated with a position of each new value which is stored, a number stored at the completion of said search range being associated with the most extreme value of said home position signal and representing said home position. 16. A robotic controller for controlling a position of an object, comprising: means for producing first and second position signals related to said position, said first and second position signals having a phase relationship containing information about said position; means responsive to said phase relationship and effective to produce a reported position signal within a cycle of said first and second position signals; means for producing a prediction of said reported position signal; means for differencing said reported position signal and said prediction to produce a position error signal; said means for producing a prediction being responsive to said position error signal for updating said prediction; means responsive to said error signal for accumulating a smoothed position signal; means for differencing a value of said smoothed position signal with a previous value of said smoothed position signal to produce a tach signal; means for slowing changes in said tach signal in response to at least two successive values of said smoothed position signal being the same to produce a corrected tach signal; means for producing a velocity command signal; means for differencing said velocity command signal and said corrected tach signal to produce a velocity error signal; and means responsive to said velocity error signal for driving said object. 17. A robotic controller according to claim 16, wherein said means responsive to said phase relationship includes an automatic bias calibrator effective to store first and second bias values related to said first and second position signals and first and second bias compensators responsive respectively to said first and second bias values for removing bias from said first and second position signals. 18. A robotic controller according to claim 16, wherein said means for producing a velocity command signal includes velocity compensation means for detecting motion of said object when zero motion is commanded and for storing a bias value effective to stop said motion, said velocity compensation means being effective to apply said bias value to all subsequent values of said velocity command signal whereby velocity bias is compensated. 