The automated library system stores and retrieves media cartridges for an associated plurality of media drives. Within this system, a virtual robot is implemented to create multiple virtual media libraries within the single automated cartridge library system. This capability enables the use of a plurality of types of media within the single automated cartridge library and a corresponding plurality of drive elements within the library. Thus, each drive element has associated therewith a number of object storage locations within the library which contain media of a form and content that matches the drive element. The automated cartridge library system manages the correspondence between object storage location, media type, designated drive element in an automated manner such that the single library appears to the user as multiple independent libraries. This enables the user to transition to another media on an incremental basis, since a single drive element can be added to the library and associated media added as needed without displacing the embedded base of installed robotic media handling equipment or requiring significant modification to this equipment. Furthermore, the automated library system provides a media management capability to define media subsets media elements which have consistent mechanical and electrical characteristics, can vary in data management attributes.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated media storage library, connected to at least one associated computer system, for storing and retrieving a plurality of media elements, having substantially uniform exterior dimension and each containing one of a number of different types of media, for placement into a number of drive elements which are connected to said computer system to read and write data thereon comprising: a plurality of uniform size media element storage locations formed in an array of media element storage locations, each media element storage location adapted to receive and store a media element; means for robotically transferring said media elements between said media element storage locations and said drive elements; means for storing data indicative of at least two sets of media elements, each set of media elements representing media elements having uniform exterior dimensions and a combination of media attributes common to that set of media elements which combination of media attributes differs from combination of media element attributes found in others of said sets of media elements; means for storing data indicative of at least two sets of drive elements, each set of drive elements representing drive elements having a combination of drive attributes common to that set of drive elements and differing from combinations of drive element attributes found in others of said sets of drive elements; means, responsive to said computer system requesting access to a media element stored in one of said media storage locations in said automated media storage library, for identifying one of said drive elements having drive element attributes that correspond to said media element attributes associated with said requested media element; and means for activating said robotically transferring means to transfer sad requested media element from said media storage location to said identified drive element. 2. The automated media storage library of claim wherein said identifying means includes: means for mapping each of said sets of media elements to at least one of said sets of drive elements. 3. The automated media storage library of claim 2 wherein said identifying means further includes: means, responsive to said mapping means, for generating a prioritized list of drive elements which are included in said at least one of said sets of drive elements. 4. The automated media storage library of claim 3 wherein said identifying means further includes: means, responsive to said generating means, for selecting a single one of said drive elements from said prioritized list of drive elements. 5. The automated media storage library of claim 3 wherein said generating means selects a drive element for inclusion in said prioritized list only if said drive element is not presently in use. 6. The automated media storage library of claim 1 wherein said media element attributes include type of media contained in said media element. 7. The automated media storage library of claim 1 wherein said media element attributes include exterior physical features of said media elements. 8. The automated media storage library of claim 1 wherein said media element attributes include data recording format used on said media elements. 9. The automated media storage library of claim 1 wherein said media element attributes include data management characteristics of data stored on said media elements. 10. The automated media storage library of claim 1 wherein said drive element attributes include type of media that can be accepted by said drive element. 11. The automated media storage library of claim 1 wherein said drive element attributes include exterior physical features of said media elements that can be accepted by said drive element. 12. The automated media storage library of claim 1 wherein said drive element attributes include data recording format used by said drive elements. 13. The automated media storage library of claim 1 wherein said drive element attributes include data management characteristics of data stored on said media elements loaded into said drive elements. 14. An automated media storage library, connected to at least one associated computer system, for storing and retrieving a plurality of media elements, having substantially uniform exterior dimensions and each containing one of a number of different types of media, for placement into a number of drive elements which are connected to said computer system to read and write data thereon comprising: a plurality of uniform size media element storage locations formed in an array of media element storage locations, each media element storage location adapted to receive and store a media element; means for robotically transferring said media elements between said media element storage locations and said drive elements; means for storing data indicative of at least two sets of media elements, each set of media elements representing media elements of uniform exterior dimensions and having a common type of media contained therein; means for storing data indicative of at least two sets of drive elements, each set of drive elements representing drive elements that accept media elements having a common type of media contained therein; means, responsive to said computer system requesting access to a media element stored in one of said media storage locations in said automated media storage library, for identifying one of said drive elements that accepts a type of media that corresponds to said media contained in said requested media element; and means for activating said robotically transferring means to transfer said requested media element from said media storage location to said identified drive element. 15. The automated media storage library of claim 14 wherein said identifying means includes: means for generating a prioritized list of drive elements which accept a type of media that corresponds to said media contained in said requested media element. 16. The automated media storage library of claim 15 wherein said identifying means further includes: means, responsive to said generating means, for selecting a single one of said drive elements from said prioritized list of drive elements. 17. The automated media storage library of claim 15 wherein said generating means selects a drive element for inclusion in said prioritized list only if said drive element is not presently in use. 18. The automated media storage library of claim 14 wherein said set of media elements is further subdivided into subsets defined by exterior physical features of said media elements. 19. The automated media storage library of claim 14 wherein said set of media elements if further subdivided into subsets defined by data recording format used on said media elements. 20. The automated media storage library of claim 14 wherein said set of media elements is further subdivided into subsets defined by data management characteristics of data stored on said media elements. 21. The automated media storage library of claim 14 wherein said set of drive elements is further subdivided into subsets defined by exterior physical features of said media elements that can be accepted by said drive elements. 22. The automated media storage library of claim 14 wherein said set of drive elements is further subdivided into subsets defined by data recording format used by said drive elements. 23. The automated media storage library of claim 14 wherein said set of drive elements is further subdivided into subsets defined by data management characteristics of data stored on said media elements loaded into said drive elements. 24. In an automated media storage library, having a plurality of media element storage locations, each adapted to receive and store a media element, having substantially uniform exterior dimension and each containing one of a number of different types of media, connected to at least one associated computer system, for storing and retrieving a plurality of media elements for placement into a number of drive elements which are connected to said computer system to read and write data thereon, a method of allocating the placement of said media elements in a drive element comprising the steps of: storing data indicative of at least two sets of media elements, each set of media elements representing media elements having uniform exterior dimensions and a combination of media attributes common to that set of media elements and differing from combinations of media element attributes found in others of said sets of media elements; storing data indicative of at least two sets of drive elements, each set of drive elements representing drive elements having a combination of drive attributes common to that set of drive elements and differing from combinations of drive element attributes found in others of said sets of drive elements; identifying, in response to said computer system requesting access to a media element stored in one of said media storage locations in said automated media storage library, one of said drive elements having drive element attributes that correspond to said media element attributes associated with said requested media element; and robotically transferring said requested media element from said media storage location to said identified drive element. 25. In the method of media placement allocation of claim 24 wherein said step of identifying includes: mapping each of said sets of media elements to at least one of said sets of drive elements. 26. In the method of media placement allocation of claim 25 wherein said step of identifying further includes: generating a prioritized list of drive elements which are included in said at least one of said sets of drive elements. 27. In the method of media placement allocation of claim 26 wherein said step of identifying further includes: selecting a single one of said drive elements from said prioritized list of drive elements. 28. In an automated media storage library, having a plurality of media element storage locations, each adapted to receive and store a media element, having substantially uniform exterior dimensions and each containing one of a number of different types of media, connected to at least one associated computer system, for storing and retrieving a plurality of media elements for placement into a number of drive elements which are connected to said computer system to read and write data thereon, a method of allocating the placement of said media elements in a drive element comprising the steps of: storing data indicative of at least two sets of media elements, each set of media elements representing media elements of uniform exterior dimensions and having a common type of media contained therein; storing data indicative of at least two sets of drive elements, each set of drive elements representing drive elements that receive media elements having a common type of media contained therein; identifying, in response to said computer system requesting access to a media element stored in one of said media storage locations in said automated media storage library, one of said drive elements that accepts a type of media that corresponds to said media contained in said requested media element; and robotically transferring said requested media element from said media storage location to said identified drive element. 29. In the method of media placement allocation of claim 28 wherein said step of identifying includes: mapping each of said sets of media elements to at least one of said sets of drive elements. 30. In the method of media placement allocation of claim 29 wherein said step of identifying further includes: generating a prioritized list of drive elements which are included in said at least one of said sets of drive elements. 31. In the method of media placement allocation of claim 30 wherein said step of identifying further includes: selecting a single one of said drive elements from said prioritized list of drive elements. 