Apparatus for determining when the hand of a robot arm, resiliently mounted on a robot arm body, strikes or makes contact with an object that impedes or limits its movement, employs an optical fiber in place of conventional light focusing optics to produce a compact and ruggedized robot arm member relative movement sensor. The apparatus includes a light source mounted in a particular location on the robot arm hand and a light sensitive device spaced from the light source and mounted in a particular location on the robot body, a device that is capable of continuously generating a hand-to-robot arm body relative position signal in response to the particular location of collimated light from the robot hand mounted light source that passes through a light collimating optical fiber and strikes the light sensitive surface of the light sensitive device. Relative movement between the robot arm body and the robot hand resulting from contact between a motion-impeding object and the robot hand causes the light sensitive device to generate a signal indicative of such object contact and/or extent of relative hand-to-robot arm movement. The use of an optical fiber in the light path in place of a conventional lens makes it possible to employ this relative movement sensing apparatus in a vibratory environment and also makes it possible to shorten the light path length and thereby reduce the size of said relative motion sensing apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Sensing apparatus for detecting relative movement between a pair of members along a given path, said apparatus comprising: a position sensing lateral effect photodiode mounted in fixed relation to one of said members, said photodiode having a given photosensitive surface extending generally in the direction of said path; an energizeable source of light; an optical fiber arrangement for directing light from said source to said photodiode and for forming a confined spot of light thereon, said optical fiber arrangement having one end thereof mounted in operative relation to said source and extending from a fixed location relative to the other of said members to a point where the other end of said optical fiber arrangement is in closely adjoining relation to said photosensitive surface to thereby produce said confined spot of light on said surface; and means coupled to said photodiode for producing a signal that is a continuous function of the position of said spot of light on said photosensitive surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said light source is a non-focused source, and further including a lens mounted in operative alignment to said source and said one end of said optical fiber arrangement to focus at least a portion of the light from said source on said one end for transmission of the focused light to the other end of said optical fiber arrangement. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sensing apparatus is a compact apparatus having one of said members and the other of said members mounted in a closely spaced overlying relation to each other with said source mounted on one of said members in facing relation to said photodiode which is mounted on the other of said members, and said optical fiber arrangement is a relatively short arrangement extending transverse said members between said source and said photodiode. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein a first of said members is fixedly mounted with respect to one end of a driven input portion of an elongated robotic arm and the second of said members is fixedly mounted with respect to one end of a load engaging output portion of said arm with said photosensitive surface extending generally transverse the longitudinal axis of said input portion and with said optical fiber arrangement extending along said longitudinal axis. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said input portion is an extended portion having a given longitudinal axis, said members are intercoupled to each other for resilient displacement in a direction generally normal to said longitudinal axis of said input portion. 6. Force sensing apparatus for a robotic arm having a driven input member and a load engaging output member, said apparatus comprising: means connecting said members together for resilient relative displacement in a t least a given plane; and means for detecting the relative displacement of said members in said given plane so as to determine the load forces acting in said given plane on said output member as a function of said displacement and the resiliency of said connecting means in said plane, said detecting means including a position sensing lateral effect photodiode fixedly mounted with respect to one of said members with its photosensitive surface extending in a direction parallel to said plane, and means for directing a spot of light to said photodiode from a fixed location with respect to the other of said members such that the position of said spot of light on said detector is a function of the relative displacement of said members in said direction, said directing means including an energizeable source of light, and an optical fiber arrangement for directing light from said source to said photodiode and for forming a confined spot of light thereon, said optical fiber arrangement having one end thereof mounted in operative relation to said source and extending from a fixed location relative to the other of said members to a point where the other end of said optical fiber arrangement is in closely adjoining relation to said photosensitive surface to thereby produce said confined spot of light on said surface, and means coupled to said photodiode for producing a signal that is a continuous function of the position of said spot of light on said photosensitive surface. 7. The invention of claim 6, wherein said members are extended members having one end thereof in a closely spaced, compact facing relation, said photodiode being fixedly positioned with respect to the end of one of said members with its photosensitive surface extending transverse the longitudinal axis of said one member and said source being mounted with respect to the other of said members in facing relation to said photodiode surface, said optical fiber arrangement being a relatively short arrangement extending transverse the ends of said members between said source and said detector surface, and said connecting means further includes at least one elastomeric element extending generally transverse said given plane with its ends mounted in fixed relation to respective ones of said input and output members, said elastomeric element having a relatively high longitudinal spring constant to essentially preclude displacement of said members in a plane normal to said given plane under relatively heavy load forces in said normal plane and a comparatively low lateral spring constant to permit displacement of said members in said given plane under comparatively light loads. 8. Relative movement sensing apparatus, comprising: a light source; a first member; a second member resiliently mounted on said first member, being relatively movable with respect thereto; a lateral effect photodiode having a light sensitive surface, said photodiode being mounted in a fixed position with respect to one of said members and including means for generating an electrical signal that is a continuous function of the relative position between said members; and an optical fiber for directing a portion of the light from said light source from a particular location relative to the other of said members, to a particular location on said light sensitive surface. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the means for resiliently mounting said second member on said first member includes a high compliance spring comprising a multiplicity of flat discs with each of said discs having a flat surface thereof adjacent the flat surface of another disc, the disc openings being generally orthogonal to a particular axial direction with said discs being encapsulated in an elastomeric material such that forces applied to said spring lateral to said axial direction can produce significant disc movement in said lateral direction and only negligible disc movement along said particular axial direction. 10. Robot arm drive force interrupting apparatus, comprising: a light source; an energizeable robot arm drive member; a robot arm driven member resiliently mounted on said drive member, being relatively movable with respect thereto; a lateral effect photodiode having a light sensitive surface, said photodiode being mounted in a fixed position with respect to one of said members and including means for generating an electrical signal that is a continuous function of the relative position between said members; an optical fiber for directing a portion of the light from said light source from a particular location relative to the other of said members, to a particular location on said light sensitive surface; and means responsive to said relative position signal for disabling said robot arm drive member when said signal is greater than or equal to a predetermined magnitude. 11. Drive force magnitude regulating apparatus, comprising: a light source; an energizeable drive member; a driven member mounted on said drive member through a spring member having a known spring rate, said driven member being movable with respect to said drive member; a lateral effect photodiode having a light sensitive surface, said photodiode being mounted in a fixed position with respect to one of said members and including means for generating an electrical signal that is a continuous function of the relative position between said members; an optical fiber for directing a portion of the light from said light source from a particular location relative to the other of said members, to a particular location on said light sensitive surface; and means responsive to said relative position signal for controlling the movement of said drive member to thereby control the magnitude of the drive force provided by said driven member. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the means for mounting said second member to said first member includes a plurality of compliant pads. 13. The apparatus of claims 10 or 11, wherein the means for mounting the driven member to the drive member includes a plurality of compliant pads. 14. The apparatus of claims 8, 10 or 11, wherein said optical fiber is a multimode optical fiber. 15. The apparatus of claims 8, 10 or 11, wherein said optical fiber is a single mode optical fiber. 16. The apparatus of claims 8, 10 or 11, wherein one end of said optical fiber is spaced approximately two millimeters from the light sensitive surface of said lateral effect photodiode. 