An apparatus for releasably engaging a semiconductor wafer (12) comprises a frame (18) adapted for engagement by a robotic arm (26). The frame mounts one end of an elongated arm (30) dimensioned for insertion into a pocket (14) in a wafer-carrying cassette (16). The arm has a first jaw (34) depending from its end distant from the frame for engaging a portion of the edge of the wafer. A second jaw (38) extends through a slot (46) in the arm so as to be opposite the first jaw for engaging a portion of the edge of the wafer diametrically opposed to that engaged by the first jaw. The second jaw is displaced to and from the first jaw by a pneumatic cylinder (48) to enable the wafer to be releasably captured between the jaws without any damage to the surfaces of the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for releasably engaging a wafer, characterized in that: an elongated arm, having a depending first jaw, is positioned above the wafer so that the first jaw lies outside the edge of the wafer; the arm is lowered so that the first jaw is opposite to a portion of the edge of a wafer; and a second jaw slidably mounted in a longitudinal slot which extends through the arm so as to have an upper portion above said arm, to extend through the slot and have a jaw portion depend below the arm, is displaced by a fluid cylinder connected between a frame and said upper portion, causing the second jaw to move in the slot and said depending jaw portion to move along the underside of the arm towards the first jaw so that the wafer is engaged by, and is captured between, the jaws. 2. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that: the wafer is stored in a pocket of a wafer cassette carrier; and the arm is positioned above the wafer by inserting the arm into the pocket in the cassette carrier where the wafer is stored. 3. The method according to claim 1, characterized in that: the wafer, once engaged, is transported by displacing the arm; and thereafter the wafer is released by displacing the second jaw away from the first jaw. 4. Apparatus for releasably engaging a wafer, characterized by: a frame; an elongated arm mounted to said frame and extending outwardly therefrom, said arm having a longitudinally extending slot which extends therethrough; a first jaw depending from said arm at a point distant from said frame, said first jaw adapted to engage a portion of the edge of the wafer; a second jaw extending entirely through said slot so as to extend above said arm and having a jaw portion depending below said arm, said second jaw slidably mounted for movement in the slot with said depending jaw portion movable along the underside of said arm to and from the first jaw for engaging a portion of the edge of the wafer opposite to the portion engaged by said first jaw; and fluid cylinder means connected between said frame and said portion of said second jaw which extends above said arm for displacing said second depending jaw portion towards said first jaw to capture the wafer therebetween. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in that said arm is dimensioned for insertion into a pocket in a cassette containing a wafer to be engaged. 6. The apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in that said frame includes: a cylindrical tool chuck having a first end and second end, the first end being dimensioned for engagement by a robot; and a plate secured to a second end of the tool chuck for adjustably mounting the arm. 7. The apparatus according to claim 4, characterized in that said means for displacing the second depending jaw portion comprises a pneumatic cylinder. 