Disclosed is a moving object detection apparatus and method by using optical flow analysis. The apparatus includes four modules of image capturing, image aligning, pixel matching, and moving object detection. Plural images are successively inputted under a camera. Based on neighboring images, frame relationship on the neighboring images is estimated. With the frame relationship, a set of warping parameter is further estimated. Based on the wrapping parameter, the background areas of the neighboring images are aligned to obtain an aligned previous image. After the alignment, a corresponding motion vector for each pixel on the neighboring images is traced. The location in the scene of the moving object can be correctly determined by analyzing all the information generated from the optical flow.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A moving object detection apparatus using optical flow analysis, comprising: an image capturing module for successively capturing a plurality of images; an image aligning module for obtaining an aligned previous image for each pair of neighboring images of said plurality of images, said pair of neighboring images consisting of a previous image and a posterior image; an image matching module for taking a pixel as a unit and obtaining a corresponding pixel displacement vector for each pixel of said previous image and said posterior image through optical flow tracing; and a moving object detection module for combining all the corresponding pixel displacement vectors of all the pixels in said posterior image to determine a location of said moving object within an image frame; wherein said moving object detection module includes: a displacement direction projection conversion unit for obtaining a displacement vector conversion value for each pixel of said posterior image according to said corresponding pixel displacement vector; a projection conversion separation value determining unit, based on said displacement vector conversion value of each pixel of said posterior image, for obtaining standard deviation of the displacement vector conversion values of all pixels of said posterior image in order to determine a projection separation value for each pixel of said posterior image; and a moving object determining unit for marking the location of said moving object within said image frame according to said projection separation value for each pixel of posterior image. 2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said image aligning module at least includes: an image correspondence unit for establishing a correspondence relationship between two neighboring image frames according to each said pair of neighboring images; an alignment parameter estimation unit for estimating an alignment parameter according to said correspondence relationship between each said pair of neighboring images; and an image deformation aligning module for obtaining said aligned previous image according to said alignment parameter. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said image matching module at least includes: a pixel displacement direction determining unit for determining a displacement direction of each pixel of each said pair of neighboring images through optical flow tracing; and a pixel displacement estimation unit, for estimating said corresponding pixel displacement vector of each pixel of said posterior image. 4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said previous image and said posterior image are images captured at different time points. 5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said image capturing module has a camera for successively capturing a plurality of images. 6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein said corresponding pixel displacement vector of each pixel of said posterior image is an optical flow displacement of each pixel of said posterior image. 7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein said camera is moving or stays stationary. 8. A moving object detection method using optical flow analysis, said method comprising the following steps of: successively capturing a plurality of images; estimating an alignment parameter from each pair of neighboring images of said plurality of images, said pair of neighboring images consisting of a previous image and a posterior image; based on said alignment parameter, aligning background of each said pair of neighboring images; taking a pixel as a unit, through optical flow tracing on each said pair of neighboring images after alignment to obtain a corresponding pixel displacement vector of each pixel of said posterior image; and combining the corresponding pixel displacement vectors of all pixels of said posterior image to determine a location of said moving object within an image frame; wherein determining the location of said moving object further includes the steps of: obtaining a displacement vector conversion value for each pixel of said posterior image according to said corresponding pixel displacement vector; obtaining standard deviation of the displacement vector conversion values of all pixels of said posterior image based on said displacement vector conversion value of each pixel of said posterior image in order to determine a projection separation value for each pixel of said posterior image; and marking the location of said moving object within said image frame according to said projection separation value for each pixel of said posterior image. 9. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein said alignment parameter is obtained by establishing a correspondence relationship between each said pair of neighboring images, and then estimating said alignment parameter based on said correspondence relationship of said pair of neighboring images. 10. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein said optical flow tracing is accomplished using a piecewise optical flow tracing technique to provide a pixel-based tracing result of said pair of neighboring images and obtain an optical flow displacement of each pixel of said posterior image. 11. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein said displacement vector conversion value is obtained through analysis of an optical distance of each pixel of an image. 