A device for constructing an assembly of building components includes an articulating arm unit and a gripper/nailer mounted on an end of the articulating arm unit. The gripper/nailer includes a gripping unit for grasping building components and positioning them in a predetermined arrangement and a nailing unit for inserting a fastener to secure the building components together.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A device for constructing an assembly of building components, comprising: an articulating arm unit; and a gripper and nailer mounted on an end of the articulating arm unit, wherein the gripper and nailer includes a gripping unit for grasping building components and positioning them in a predetermined arrangement, and a nailing unit for inserting a fastener to secure the building components together. 2. The device defined in claim 1, wherein the nailing unit is configured to insert nails into the building components. 3. The device defined in claim 1, wherein the articulating arm unit is a 6-axis articulating arm unit having a wrist member, and wherein the gripper and nailer is mounted on the wrist member. 4. The device defined in claim 1, further comprising a controller that is operably associated with the articulating arm and the gripper and nailer, the controller being configured to provide instructions on component placement and nailing location to the articulating arm unit and the gripper and nailer. 5. The device defined in claim 1, wherein the nailer operates on a first axis, and the gripper operates on a second axis that is different from the first axis. 6. A system for constructing an assembly of building components, comprising: a frame; an articulating arm unit mounted on the frame; a gripper and nailer mounted on an end of the articulating arm unit, wherein the gripper and nailer includes a gripping unit for grasping building components and positioning them in a predetermined arrangement, and a nailing unit for inserting a fastener to secure the building components together; and a support surface mounted on the frame, the support surface positioned and configured to receive building components from the gripping unit and maintain the building components in position for securing by the nailing unit. 7. The system defined in claim 6, wherein the articulating arm has a stationary base mounted to the frame and a rotating member rotatably attached to the stationary base for rotation about a first axis, the first axis being oriented at an oblique angle to a horizontal surface underlying the frame. 8. The system defined in claim 7, wherein the support surface defines a support plane, and wherein a second axis normal to the support plane is oriented at an oblique angle to the horizontal surface underlying the frame. 9. The system defined in claim 8, wherein the second axis forms an angle of between about 10 and 90 degrees with the first axis. 10. The system defined in claim 8, wherein the first axis is oriented at an angle of between about 10 and 45 degrees to the horizontal surface, and wherein the second axis is oriented at an angle of between about 10 and 90 degrees to the horizontal surface. 11. The system defined in claim 7, wherein the support surface is pivotally mounted to the frame and movable between an upright position, in which the support surface is angled relative to a horizontal surface underlying the frame and faces generally the articulating arm, and an offloading position, in which the support surface is generally horizontally disposed. 12. The system defined in claim 7, further comprising horizontal stops that are fixed adjacent lower edge of the support surface, and vertical stops that are fixed adjacent a side edge of the support surface. 13. The system defined in claim 12, wherein one of the horizontal stops and the vertical stops are configured to be retractable from the support surface. 14. The system defined in claim 7, further comprising a controller that is operably associated with the articulating arm and the gripper and nailer, the controller being configured to provide instructions on component placement and nailing location to the articulating arm unit and the gripper and nailer. 15. The system defined in claim 6, further comprising a rack that supplies building components to the gripper. 16. The system defined in claim 6, further comprising a cut-to-length saw that forms building components to a desired length and provides them to the gripper. 17. The system defined in claim 6, further comprising guides mounted to the support surface. 18. The system defined in claim 17, wherein the guides include magnets for attached to the support surface. 19. A device for constructing an assembly of building components, comprising: an articulating arm unit; a gripper mounted on an end of the articulating arm unit that includes a gripping unit for grasping building components and positioning them in a predetermined arrangement; and a controller that is operably associated with the articulating arm and the gripper, the controller being configured to receive data from a computer-aided drafting (CAD) file, convert that data into component positions, and provide instructions to the gripper on component placement; further comprising a nailing unit mounted on the end of the articulating arm unit, the nailing unit configured to insert fasteners to secure the building components together; and wherein the controller is configured to provide instructions to the nailing unit regarding nailing locations. 20. The device defined in claim 19, further comprising a support surface that is positioned to receive arranged building components. 21. The device defined in claim 19, further comprising a rack configured and positioned to supply building components to the articulating arm unit. 22. The device defined in claim 19, further comprising a cut-to-length saw configured to form building components to a desired length, wherein the controller is configured to control the operation of the cut-to-length saw. 23. A computer program product for controlling operation of a system for constructing assemblies of building components, comprising: a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therein, the computer readable program code comprising: computer readable program code configured to receive data regarding an assembly of building components; computer readable program code configured to direct a gripper on an articulating arm unit to retrieve individual building components from a supply of building components; computer readable program code configured to direct the gripper on the articulating arm unit to position the building components in predetermined positions to form a predetermined arrangement of building components; and computer readable program code configured to direct a nailing unit mounted on the articulating arm unit to secure the building components together to form an assembly of building components. 24. The computer program product defined in claim 23, wherein the data received is data generated by a computer-aided drafting (CAD) program. 25. The computer program product defined in claim 23, further comprising computer readable code configured to convert the CAD data into building component data by identifying a lower right position and a center position of each building component. 26. The computer program product defined in claim 23, wherein the computer readable program code is further configured to determine nailing locations for directing the nailing unit responsive to the locations of the arranged building components. 27. The computer program product defined in claim 23, further comprising computer readable code configured to control the cutting of lengths of building components with a cut-to-length saw. 28. A device for constructing an assembly of building components, comprising: an articulating arm unit; a gripping unit mounted on an end of the articulating arm unit for grasping building components and positioning them in a predetermined arrangement; and an automated nailing unit for inserting a fastener to secure the building components together. 29. A device for constructing an assembly of building components, comprising: an articulating arm unit; and a gripper and nailer mounted on an end of the articulating arm unit, wherein the gripper and nailer includes a gripping unit for grasping building components and positioning them in a predetermined arrangement, and a nailing unit for inserting a fastener to secure the building components together; wherein the gripper and nailer includes a drill and/or router for forming holes in the building components. 