The present invention provides an automated analyzer system for performing chemical, biochemical or biological assays using changes/no changes in diffraction of light by the presence/absence of analytes which may or may not be present in a sample binding to their analyte specific receptors laid out in a preselected pattern in a disposable sensor. The analyzer is a modular, bench-top instrument that compactly integrates subsystems for sample dispensing, liquid handling, and optical generation of laser light beams and detectors for detecting for diffracted light. An internal processor is included for automating the instrument, and a user interface to provide communication with the operator.
Claims Therefore what is claimed is: 1. An analyzer for performing chemical, biochemical or biological assays using diffraction of light, comprising; a disposable sensor including at least one sample well and at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors bound to a surface of said at least one sample well; at least one sensor station for receiving said disposable sensor; a fluid holding sample container for holding assay fluids used in performing said assays and samples being tested for presence or absence of analytes which bind to said analyte-specific receptors; a fluid flow and handling system in flow communication with said at least one sensor, sources of said samples and sources of said assay fluids used in performing said assays configured to deliver said samples and fluids to said at least one well in said disposable sensor and said fluid holding sample container, said fluid flow and handling system including fluid pump configured to pump fluids and samples from their respective sources to said disposable sensor, to said fluid holding sample container and to fluid waste containers, said fluid flow and handling system including a fluid dispenser configured to dispense samples and fluids to said fluid holding sample container and to dispense samples and assay fluids from said fluid holding sample container to said at least one sensor; a robotic manipulator connected to said fluid holding sample container configured to pre-position said fluid holding sample container with respect to said fluid dispenser; a temperature controller for controlling a temperature of an interior of the analyzer; an optical system for producing and directing a coherent beam of light toward said at least one sensor station to impinge on said surface of said at least one sample well containing said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors bound thereto, said optical system including a first optical detector configured to measure diffracted light signals from said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors; a scanning mechanism for scanning said coherent beam of light with respect to said at least one sample well containing said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors bound thereto; and a microprocessor controller connected to said scanning mechanism, said scanning mechanism being configured to scan said coherent light beam across said surface in a controlled manner, and said microprocessor controller being programmed with instructions to scan said coherent light beam across pre-selected portions of said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors prior to flowing sample containing the analytes into said disposable sensor, and based on qualities of signals received from said pre-selected portions, the microprocessor being programmed with instructions to determine a selected region in said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors to subsequently monitor said diffracted light signals after sample has been admitted into said disposable vessel; said microprocessor controller also being connected to said temperature controller, and programmed to control the temperature controller to control the temperature in said analyzer, said robotic manipulator, and programmed to pre-position said fluid holding sample container with respect to said fluid dispenser, said fluid flow and handling system, and programmed to control sample and assay fluid flow routes through said fluid control system, said optical system, and programmed to control parameters of said coherent light beam, said optical detector being configured to analyze said measured diffracted light signals from said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors for determining a presence or absence of analytes in said sample based on the presence or absence of a change in diffraction pattern before and after sample has been admitted into said disposable vessel; and said microprocessor controller including a user interface enabling interaction between the analyzer and an operator. 2. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein said disposable sensor includes an integrally formed optical element configured to direct said coherent beam of light towards said surface of said at least one sample well. 3. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein said at least one sensor station includes a sensor receiving structure matching a form fit of the disposable sensor and having contact surfaces for contacting associated surfaces on said disposable sensor, said contact surfaces being configured to provide positional locationing of the optical element in the at least one sensor station at a location in closest proximity to selected optical surfaces of said optical element to provide optical alignment of the disposable sensor in the at least one sensor station and at the same time providing thermal contact between the sensor receiving structure and the disposable sensor at a location close to the pre-selected patterns and the at least one sample well in the disposable sensor. 4. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein said optical system is mounted on a rigid optical support structure, a coherent light source for producing said coherent beam of light being rigidly mounted to said rigid optical support structure, said optical detector being rigidly mounted to said rigid optical support structure in a fixed orientation with respect to said coherent light source, and wherein said scanning mechanism includes a motor connected to said rigid optical support structure for moving said rigid optical support structure with respect to said at least one sensor station. 5. The analyzer according to claim 4 wherein said rigid optical support structure is a unitary metal block assembly having bores machined therein, a first bore having a size selected to hold said source of coherent light, a second bore having a size selected to hold said first optical detector, said source of coherent light and said optical detector being in thermal contact with said unitary metal block assembly to provide a stable thermal relationship between said coherent light source and said optical detector. 6. The analyzer according to claim 5 wherein said at least one sensor station forms part of a frame assembly, and wherein said motor is rigidly attached to said frame assembly, and wherein said scanning mechanism includes a ball screw coupled to said motor, said ball screw being mounted so it is axially static with respect to said frame assembly, and wherein said ball screw is connected to said block assembly whereby rotation of the ball screw is translated into linear motion of said unitary metal block assembly in a longitudinal direction. 7. The analyzer according to claim 6 wherein said optical system includes a second optical detector configured to measure reflected light signals from said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors, and wherein said second optical detector is mounted in a third bore located in said unitary metal block assembly. 8. The analyzer according to claim 7 wherein said microprocessor controller is configured to compare said diffracted light signals captured by the first optical detector and said reflected light signals captured by the second optical detector for purposes of calibration. 9. The analyzer according to claim 6 wherein said temperature controller is configured to maintain a temperature of said unitary metal block assembly at a fixed temperature above ambient in order to stabilize the electronics of the source of coherent light and said first detector and to minimize the affects of thermal gradients induced by changes in the ambient temperature of the operating environment of the analyzer. 10. The analyzer according to claim 6 wherein said rigid unitary metal block assembly is slidably attached to said at least one sensor station wherein upon activation of said motor said rigid optical support structure slides in said longitudinal direction with respect to said at least one sensor station. 11. The analyzer according to claim 10 wherein said rigid optical support structure is slidably attached using at least one rail connected to said rigid optical support structure which is captured by rail receiving means associated with said at least one sensor station. 12. The analyzer according to claim 10 wherein said at least one disposable sensor is elongate having a longitudinal direction, and wherein said at least one preselected pattern of analyte-specific receptors is two or more preselected patterns arrayed along said longitudinal direction so that as said scanning mechanism slides said rigid optical support structure in said longitudinal direction with respect to said at least one sensor station, each of said two or more pre-selected analyte-receptor patterns are presented to the coherent light beam. 13. The analyzer according to claim 12 wherein said at least one disposable sensor is two or more disposable sensors aligned in said longitudinal direction, such that each of the pre-selected analyte-receptor patterns in each of the two or more disposable sensors are presented to the coherent light beam. 14. The analyzer according to claim 12 wherein said microprocessor controller is configured to present any of the at least one pre-selected analyte-receptor patterns in said at least one disposable sensor to the coherent light beam in any order. 15. The analyzer according to claim 6 wherein said scanning mechanism includes a home switch and a limit switch to provide a positional reference and travel limit, respectively, for the unitary metal block assembly, said home switch and said limit switch being connected to said microprocessor controller for providing feedback on location of the unitary metal block. 16. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein said coherent beam of light is a laser beam. 17. The analyzer according to claim 16 wherein said a laser beam has a wavelength in a red portion of the optical spectrum. 18. The analyzer according to claim 7 wherein said second optical detector is a pre-amplified photodiode package. 19. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein said first optical detector is a pre-amplified photodiode package. 20. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein said coherent beam of light has a cross sectional beam size less than an area of the pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors. 21. The analyzer according to claim 1 including a cover lid for covering each of the at least one disposable sensors in each of said at least one sensor stations during operation, including a microprocessor controlled interlock connected to each cover lid and said microprocessor controller is configured so that said beam of coherent light is not turned on unless the interlock is engaged by the cover lid being locked in a closed position. 22. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein said fluid flow and handling system includes a multi-channel electronic pipetting system. 23. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein said fluid flow and handling system includes disposable pipette tips. 24. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein said fluid flow and handling system includes a tip washing station. 25. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein said integrally formed optical element configured to direct said coherent beam of light towards said surface of said at least one sample well has a geometric shape configured such that the beam of coherent light undergoes total internal reflection in said disposable sensor as the beam of coherent light interacts with said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors bound to said surface of said at least one sample well. 26. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein said disposable sensor includes a molded plastic bottom section having a fluid well having an inner surface to which said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors are bound, a molded plastic lid insertable into said first molded plastic section which when the molded plastic lid is assembled with the molded plastic bottom section defines an interior chamber to allow flow of liquid across the at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-receptor patterns, said molded plastic lid including an inlet port and an outlet port and flexible tubes each coupled at one end thereof to said inlet and outlet ports and the other ends of each flexible tube being connected to fluidic connectors which are releasibly connectable to said fluid flow and handling system. 27. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein the microprocessor is programmed with instructions such that at a time that a fluid containing a reactive species contacts a monitored region of the at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors the microprocessor identifies a diffraction signal change induced by an intentional introduction into the at least one sample well of a fluid differing in refractive index from the fluid containing the reactive species immediately prior to introduction of the fluid containing the reactive species into said at least one sample well. 28. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein the microprocessor is programmed with instructions such that a location of the analyte-receptor pattern is identified and aligned to the optical system by comparing pattern scan data of a scanned pattern to a theoretical pattern and a map of the analyte-receptor pattern location relative to the optical system is produced. 29. The analyzer according to claim 28 wherein the microprocessor is programmed with instructions such that said scanned pattern is matched in software to the theoretical pattern and locational references in the system software are adjusted accordingly. 30. The analyzer according to claim 29 wherein the microprocessor is programmed with instructions such that said matching of the expected signal pattern to the actual pattern measured by the optical system is accomplished by applying a lowest-quartile-filter to said actual pattern thus establishing a location of actual expected regions of low signal between the analyte-receptor patterns, and cross correlating this actual pattern to the expected pattern and the locational references in appropriate software files. 31. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein the microprocessor is programmed with instructions such that said selected region in said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors is selected by comparing signal amplitudes in adjacent regions and selecting a region with least deviation from a local or distributed signal level. 32. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein the microprocessor is programmed with instructions such that said selected region in said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors is selected by restriction to regions of pre-selected signal intensity. 33. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein the microprocessor is programmed with instructions such that said selected region in said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors is selected by exclusion of regions above a signal intensity which limits analytical dynamic range. 34. The analyzer according to claim 1 wherein the microprocessor is programmed with instructions such that said selected region in said at least one pre-selected pattern of analyte-specific receptors is selected by exclusion of regions below a signal intensity which corresponds to an incomplete pattern. 