An articulated robot arm or the like comprising a base, an upper arm which is pivotally secured to the base at a shoulder joint, a lower arm pivotally secured to the upper arm at an elbow joint, and optionally a "hand" or tool support pivotally secured to the lower arm at a wrist joint. A parallelogram linkage controls the relative position of the upper arm, lower arm, and base. The linkage has first, second, third, and fourth links joined by pivots. The first link is a crank which is pivotally connected to the base by a first pivot which is coaxial with the shoulder pivot. The second link of the parallelogram linkage is parallel to the crank link, and is fixed with respect to the lower arm. The third and fourth links join the first and second links to complete the parallelogram. At least one of the third and fourth links is fixed to the upper arm. The crank and the upper arm are rotated about the first pivot and the shoulder pivot in the same direction at the same angular velocity to raise and lower the entire arm as a unit, and are rotated in opposite directions to fold and unfold the arm. The rates of the respective rotations and the lengths of the upper and lower arms can be coordinated so the outboard end or wrist joint of the lower arm translates in a straight line relative to the base when the arm is folded and unfolded. Apparatus is described for flexing the wrist joint of the arm to maintain the orientation of the hand in fixed relation to the base during the other movements of the arms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot arm or the like, comprising: A. a base; B. an upper arm having a first end and a second end, wherein the first end of said upper arm is secured to said base by a first pivot to define a shoulder joint; C. a lower arm having a first end and a second end, wherein the first end of said lower arm is secured to the second end of said upper arm by a second pivot to define an elbow joint; D. a parallelogram linkage having a first link defined by a crank which is rotatably secured to said base by a third pivot coaxial with said first pivot, a second link parallel to said first link and fixed to said lower arm, a third link fixed to said upper arm, and a fourth link, wherein said third and fourth links are parallel and join said first and second links; and E. first drive means for folding and unfolding said arm by pivoting said elbow and said shoulder about said first and second pivots at angular velocities of equal magnitude in opposite directions, thereby translating the second end of said lower arm in a straight line relative to said base. 2. The robot arm of claim 1, wherein said first drive means comprises crank drive means for rotating said crank in one direction at the angular velocity given by the expression "-X" relative to said base and upper arm rotating means for rotating said upper arm in the opposite direction at an angular velocity given by the expression "+2X" relative to said crank. 3. The robot arm of claim 2, wherein said upper arm rotating means and said crank drive means are each powered by a single motor. 4. The robot arm of claim 1, wherein said first drive means is powered by a first motor mounted adjacent to said base. 5. The robot arm of claim 1, further comprising second drive means adapted to rotate said upper arm and said crank in the same direction about said first pivot at equal angular velocities, thereby pivoting said arm at said shoulder without flexing said elbow. 6. The robot of claim 5, wherein said second drive means further comprises brake means for relatively fixing said crank and said upper arm while said second drive means is turning one of said crank and said upper arm relative to said base. 7. The arm of claim 1, further comprising a support which is joined to said lower arm by a fourth pivot to define a wrist joint, and means for flexing said wrist joint. 8. The arm of claim 7, wherein said means for flexing said wrist comprises: A. a first sprocket fixed to said base coaxially with said first pivot; B. a second sprocket fixed to said support coaxially with said fourth pivot; C. third and fourth sprockets fixed to each other, mounted in coaxial relation to said second pivot, and freely rotatable with respect to said upper and lower arms; D. a first drive chain operatively connecting said first and third sprockets; and E. a second drive chain operatively connecting said second and fourth sprockets. 9. The robot of claim 7, wherein the axes of all of said pivots are horizontal. 10. The robot arm of claim 1, wherein the distance from said shoulder pivot to said elbow pivot is equal to the distance from said elbow pivot to said wrist pivot. 11. A robot arm or the like, comprising: A. a base; B. an arm having a first end which is pivotable relative to said base about a first pivot to define a shoulder and a second end, wherein said arm is articulated to define an upper arm, a lower arm, and an elbow pivotally connecting said upper and lower arms at a second pivot; C. a support having a first end which is pivotable relative to said lower arm about a third pivot to define a wrist and a second end; D. shoulder flexing apparatus for moving said support to a desired location relative to said base; E. wrist flexing apparatus operating in coordination with said shoulder flexing apparatus for translating said support relative to said base without rotating said support, said wrist flexing apparatus comprising: i. a first sprocket fixed to said base in coaxial relation to said first pivot; ii. a second sprocket fixed to said support in coaxial relation to said third pivot; and iii. third and fourth coaxial sprockets fixed to each other, mounted coaxially with said second pivot, and freely rotatable with respect to said upper and lower arms; I. a first drive chain operatively connecting said first and third sprockets; and J. a second drive chain operatively connecting said second and fourth sprockets. 12. A drive mechanism for alternately rotating a first member and a second member in the same direction with respect to a third member or in opposite directions about the third member, said mechanism comprising: A. a planetary gear set comprising a sun gear, a planet carrier supporting planet pinions for rotation about said sun gear in meshed relation thereto, and an internally toothed annulus concentric with said sun gear and meshed with said planet pinions; B. first drive/lock means for selectively rotating or locking one of said annulus and said sun gear with respect to the third member; C. drive means for rotating the second member responsive to rotation of the other of said sun gear and said annulus. D. second drive/lock means for selectively rotating or locking said planet carrier with respect to the first member; and E. third drive/lock means for selectively rotating or locking said first member with respect to said second member. 13. The mechanism of claim 12, wherein said second and third drive/lock means are operatively connected to synchronously drive or lock the parts they operate upon. 