Method and apparatus for removing residual material from sample wells of a multiwell plate. Wells located on a multiwell plate are placed in fluid communication with wash wells of a wash reservoir where cleaning fluid is provided to remove residual material from the sample wells of the multiwell plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for removing residual material at a plurality of sample wells located on a multiwell plate, the multiwell plate having a top side where sample wells are open to receive fluid and a bottom side opposite the top side, the method comprising: providing a wash reservoir having a base and a plurality of wash wells arranged to correspond to sample wells of the multiwell plate, each of the wash wells having a corresponding platform supported by and positioned above the base, the platforms being distinct and spaced from each other and each platform having an associated inlet; providing a cleaning fluid from a cleaning fluid supply to the inlet associated with each platform of the plurality of wash wells to form a flowing layer of cleaning fluid on each of the platforms; inverting the multiwell plate such that the top side of the multiwell plate is positioned under the bottom side of the multiwell plate; and contacting a rim of a sample well of the multiwell plate with the flowing layer of cleaning fluid at a corresponding wash well such that material at the rim of the sample well is contacted by the flowing layer of cleaning fluid. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of providing a cleaning fluid comprises introducing the cleaning fluid to a center of each platform of each wash well via the corresponding inlet of the wash well. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing contents from each of the wash wells via one or more corresponding outlets. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing contents from each of the wash wells by allowing contents from each wash well to spill over a top of each wash well. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the wash reservoir is arranged so that each wash well individually corresponds with and receives a single sample well of the multiwell plate. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein providing a cleaning fluid at each of the plurality of wash wells comprises allowing the cleaning fluid to interact with the residual material so as to dissolve and/or suspend the residual material. 7. An automated system for removing residual material from a plurality of sample wells of a multiwell plate, the sample wells each having a rim at an opening to the sample well, the system comprising: a wash reservoir having a base and a plurality of wash wells each adapted to receive the rim of a corresponding well located on the multiwell plate, each of the wash wells having a corresponding platform supported by and positioned above the base, the platforms being distinct and spaced from each other, and each platform having an associated inlet; a cleaning fluid supply arranged to supply a cleaning fluid to the platform of each wash well via the associated inlet to create a flowing layer of cleaning fluid that flows over each platform; and a plate manipulator having a gripping element arranged to manipulate the multiwell plate to position the multiwell plate in an inverted condition such that each rim of the plurality of sample wells is simultaneously received by a corresponding wash well of the wash reservoir and the rim of each of the plurality of sample wells contacts the flowing layer of cleaning fluid on the platform of the corresponding wash well. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein each wash well further includes an outlet, the outlet being adapted to remove an amount of contents from the wash well. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein each platform surrounds the inlet associated with the platform. 10. The system of claim 7, wherein the wash reservoir is arranged so that each wash well individually corresponds with and receives a single sample well of the multiwell plate. 11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the cleaning fluid flows over the platforms down to the base. 