A method for guiding a robotic vehicle includes the steps of establishing a tracking position along a row of vehicle sensors at which the border is to intersect the row, positioning the vehicle on the border so that the border intersects the row at an intersecting position, generating a positive signal when a sensor senses any obstruction by vegetation of a path of radiation from a respective emitter to a respective detector, generating a negative signal when a sensor does not sense any obstruction, repeating said generating steps as said vehicle advances, sending a plurality of groups of said generated signals to a processor, averaging said signals, identifying the intersecting position by identifying an adjacent pair of oppositely signalling sensors on the basis of said averaging of said signals, determining whether the tracking position is at or to the right or left of the intersecting position, and steering the vehicle straight when the tracking position is at the same location as the intersecting position, to the left when the tracking position is to the right of the intersecting position, and to the right when the tracking position is to the left of the intersecting position.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for guiding a robotic vehicle comprising the steps of: providing said vehicle with a plurality of sensors, each sensor comprising an electromagnetic radiation emitter, an electromagnetic radiation detector and a space therebetween, a plurality of intermediate and terminal sensor support members disposed in a substantially linear row, each of said members supporting at least an emitter or a detector of one of said sensors such that a plurality of spaces is defined between adjacent members, each of said spaces having an emitter on one side and a detector on another side, whereby paths of radiation between pair of respective emitters and detectors are substantially parallel to said row, and a central processor adapted to identify a location of a traversing cut-uncut vegetation border relative to said row on the basis of said signals; establishing a tracking position along said row of sensors at which said border is to intersect said row; positioning said vehicle on said border such that said border intersects said row at an intersecting position; advancing said vehicle along said border; generating a positive signal when a sensor senses by obstruction, regardless of amount, by vegetation of a path of radiation from a respective emitter to a respective detector; generating a negative signal when a sensor does not sense any obstruction by vegetation of said path; repeating said generating steps as said vehicle advances; sending a plurality of groups of said generated signals to said processor before identifying said intersecting position of said border; averaging said signals of said plurality of groups; identifying said intersecting position by identifying an adjacent pair of oppositely signalling sensors on the basis of said averaging of said signals and determining whether said tracking position is at or to the right or left of said intersecting position; and steering said vehicle straight when said tracking position is at said intersecting position, to the left when said tracking position is to the right of said intersecting position, and to the right when said tracking position is to the left of said intersecting position. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of establishing comprises the steps of: placing said vehicle on said border such that it intersects said row at a position intended to be said tracking position; generating a positive signal when a sensor senses any obstruction by vegetation of a path of radiation from a respective emitter to a respective detector, said signal being essentially the same regardless of degree of obstruction; generating a negative signal when a sensor does not sense any obstruction by vegetation of said path; sending a reference group of said generated signals to said processor to indicate said tracking position of said border; identifying a reference pair of adjacent, oppositely signalling sensors on the basis of said reference group of signals; and registering said reference pair as straddling said border, such that said tracking position is established as being adjacent to said reference pair. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said step of placing comprises the steps of causing said vehicle to complete a preprogrammed path and finish said path at said position intended to be said tracking position. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of averaging comprises the steps of individually tabulating signals received for each sensor, such that a respective tabulation is made for each of said sensors, and comparing each of said respective tabulations to a preselected threshold value, said value being indicative of the presence or absence of vegetation at a sensor, whereby tabulations equalling or exceeding said value are converted to revised indications of the presence or absence of vegetation at respective sensors, wherein said adjacent pair of oppositely signalling sensors is identified on the basis of said revised indications. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said plurality of groups numbers at least five. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of identifying comprises the step of matching said revised indications to an input side of a table, said table comprising an output value for every possible combination of revised indications, each output being preselected to identify said pair of oppositely signalling sensors among concurrently occurring other pairs of oppositely signalling sensors when it is more probable that said pair straddles said border. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein, when there are more than one adjacent pair of oppositely signalling sensors, said step of identifying comprises the step of selecting one of said pairs that is closest to a terminal end of said row. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said step of selecting involves a selecting of said one closest pair from any one of said plurality of groups. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said plurality of groups numbers at least 100. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of delaying said generating steps and/or said sending step for a predetermined period of time. 