A computer system which learns or assimilates its experience into a hierarchical arrangement. The current set of events, represented as a general directed graph of nodes and arcs, is incorporated into a memory. After each observation or input, the resulting graph is analyzed to determine if any cycles exist. Each cycle is reduced to a single node. This collapsing of the graph creates a hierarchial arrangement of the past events. Each successive level of hierarchy, by burying the details, is a more generalized model of the past experiences. In this manner, not only are computational and memory requirements reduced, but, the computer system will learn from past events which to permit use in such applications as robotics or general operator inquiry and interaction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer system comprising: A. a memory means for storage of data; B. input means for receiving current data being representable as a directed graph; and C. control means for: 1. combining said current data with any existing data in said memory means, said existing data being sequential in nature; 2. determining if a cycle exists in said combined current data and existing data; and, 3. storing in said memory, new data representive of the combined current data and existing data wherein said determined cycle is represented as a single datum point. 2. The computer system according to claim 1 where said control means further comprises means for determining if a cycle exists in said new data. 3. The computer system according to claim 2 where said control means includes means for repetitively: A. determining if a cycle exists; B. for storing said new data; and C. for permitting current data via said input means only when no cycle exists in said new data. 4. The computer system according to claim 1 wherein said input means includes input means for operator generated data input. 5. The computer system according to claim 4 wherein said control means includes means for comparing the operator generated data with said new data. 6. The computer system according to claim 5 further comprising an output means and wherein said control means includes means for communicating via said output means, data indicative of the comparison of said operator generated input and said new data. 7. The computer system according to claim 1 further comprising at least one robotic device and wherein said control means further comprises means for: A. comparing said new data with predefined objective data; and, B. manipulating said robotic device based upon said comparison of said new data and said predefined objective data. 8. The computer system according to claim 7 wherein data indicative of the manipulation of said at least one robotic device comprises a component of said current data. 9. The computer system according to claim 8 further comprising means for updating said predefined objective data. 10. The computer system according to claim 9 wherein said predefined objective data is stored in said memory means. 11. A system for assimilating actions comprising: a. memory means for storage of a graph representation, said graph having nodes and connecting arcs; b. means for defining within said memory means a graph representative of past activities; c. means for incorporating a graph representative of current activities into said existing graph, thereby creating a new graph within said memory; d. means for identifying cycles existing in said new graph; e. means for selecting one of said identified cycles; and f. means for creating, within said memory means, a higher hierarchical graph, said higher hierarchical graph being identical to said new graph except that said selected cycle is represented as a single node. 12. The system according to claim 11 further comprising means for determining if a cycle exists in said higher hierarchical graph within said memory. 13. The system according to claim 12 further including means for repetitively: A. determining if a cycle exists in the highest hierarchical graph; B. for creating an even higher hierarchical graph by reducing the determined cycle to a single node; and C. for permitting the incorporation of the graph representative of current activities only when no cycle exists in the even higher hierarchical graph. 14. The system according to claim 11 further including input means for operator generated data. 15. The system according to claim 14 further including means for comparing operator generated data with said highest hierarchical graph. 16. The system according to claim 15 further comprising an output means and means for communicating via said output means, data indicative of the comparision of said operator generated data and said highest hierarchical graph. 17. The system according to claim 11 further comprising at least one robotic device and further comprising means for: A. comparing said highest hierarchical graph with a predefined objective data; and, B. manipulating said at least one robotic device based upon said comparison. 18. The system according to claim 17 wherein data indicative of the manipulation of said robotic device comprises a component of said graph representation of current activities. 19. The system according to claim 18 further comprising means for updating said predefined objective data. 20. The system according to claim 19 wherein said predefined objective data is stored in said memory means. 21. An intelligent system comprising: A. a memory having a plurality of memory sections, each of said memory sections initially being empty, and each of said memory sections having hierarchical relationship to the other memory sections; B. input means for receipt of event data which is representable as a directed graph; and C. means for, 1. accepting new event data from said input means, 2. creating a graphical representation consisting of nodes and arcs representative of said new event data, 3. incorporating said graphical representation into any existing graph stored in the lowest hierarchical memory section, and, 4. creating for each successive hierarchical section, a graphical representation of the prior hierarchical graphical representation having selected cycles of said prior hierarchial graphical representation represented as single nodes. 22. The intelligent system according to claim 21 further comprising means for determining if a graphical cycle exists in any of said memory sections. 23. The intelligent system according to claim 22 further including means for permitting data indicative of a new sequence of events only when no graphical cycle exists in any of said memory sections. 24. The intelligent system according to claim 21 wherein said input means includes means for input of operator generated data. 25. The intelligent system according to claim 24 further including means for analyzing said operator generated data with the contents of selected memory sections. 26. The intelligent system according to claim 25 further comprising: A. an output means; and, B. means for communicating via said output means, data indicative of the analysis of said operator generated data and the contents of selected memory sections. 27. The intelligent system according to claim 21 further comprising; A. at least one robotic device; and, B. means for, 1. analyzing the contents of selected hierarchical memory sections with predefined objective data; and, 2. manipulating said robotic device based upon said analysis. 28. The intelligent system according to claim 27 wherein data representative of the manipulation of said robotic device comprises a component of said graphical representation of said new event data. 29. The intelligent system according to claim 28 further comprising means for updating said predefined objective data. 30. The intelligent system according to claim 29 wherein said predefined objective data is stored in said memory. 31. A method of operating a system having a memory with a plurality of memory sections, each of said memory sections initially being empty, and each of said memory sections being hierarchically arranged to each other, said system also having input means for receipt of data indicative of a sequence of events, the method of operating the system comprising the steps of: a. accepting a new sequence of events from said input means; b. creating a graphical representation consisting of nodes and arcs representative of said new event data; c. incorporating said graphical representation into any existing graph stored in the lowest hierarchical memory section; and, d. creating, for each successive hierarchical memory section, a graphical representation being the prior hierarchical memory's graphical representation with selected cycles represented as single nodes. 32. The method of operating a system according to claim 31 further comprising the step of analyzing operator generated data with the highest hierarchial memory. 33. The method of operating a system according to claim 32 further comprising the step of communicating via an output means, data indicative of the analysis of said operator generated input and said new data. 34. The method of operating a system according to claim 31 further comprising the steps of: A. determining the relationship of the highest hierarchical memory with a predefined objective data; and, B. manipulating a robotic device based upon said determination. 35. The method of operating a system according to claim 34 further comprising the step of updating said predefined objective data. 