A printer comprises: a feed mechanism and a printhead assembly. The printhead assembly comprises: a printhead for printing a position-coding pattern onto a surface and a scanhead for scanning a pre-printed graphic image. The printer further comprises an ink supply and a processor configured for generating association data. The association data indicates an association between a scanned graphic image, an impression identity and a plurality of positions.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A printer comprising: a feed mechanism for feeding a substrate past a printhead assembly, said substrate having a surface bearing a pre-printed graphic image; a printhead assembly comprising: a printhead for printing a position-coding pattern onto said surface, said position-coding pattern identifying an impression identity and a plurality of positions; and a scanhead for scanning the pre-printed graphic image; an ink supply containing an ink for printing the position-coding pattern; and a processor configured for generating association data, said association data indicating an association between a scanned graphic image, the impression identity and the plurality of positions, wherein said impression identity is initially unassociated with said pre-printed graphic image. 2. The printer of claim 1, wherein said printhead is a stationary pagewidth printhead. 3. The printer of claim 1, wherein said scanhead is a stationary pagewidth scanhead. 4. The printer of claim 1, wherein said ink is an infrared-absorbing ink. 5. The printer of claim 1, further comprising a memory for storing a plurality of impression identities, each stored impression identity being associable with a scanned graphic image. 6. The printer of claim 3, wherein said ink supply comprises said memory. 7. The printer of claim 1, further comprising communication means for communicating with a computer system. 8. The printer of claim 7, wherein said association data enables said computer system to associate one or more zones of the scanned graphic image with a corresponding interactive element. 9. The printer of claim 8, wherein said interactive element is selected from the group comprising: a hyperlink, an input field and a button. 10. The printer of claim 7, wherein said computer system is configured for: (i) performing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the scanned graphic image to convert text images into computer text; (ii) generating an input description for said scanned graphic image, said input description describing words of computer text and zones of corresponding text images in the scanned graphic image; and (iii) storing a page description comprising said input description and said scanned graphic image, said page description being indexed with said impression identity, wherein said page description is retrievable so as to confer interactivity on the graphic image. 11. The printer of claim 10, wherein said computer system is further configured for: identifying a URI text string in the computer text; and generating the input description further describing a URI corresponding to said URI text string and a zone of the corresponding URI text string in the scanned graphic image. 12. The printer of claim 1, wherein said printhead assembly further comprises an image sensor positioned and configured for imaging portions of the position-coding pattern printed on said surface. 13. The printer of claim 12, wherein said image sensor is positioned downstream of said printhead, wherein a direction of feeding said substrate is defined as downstream. 14. The printer of claim 1, wherein the printhead is configured for printing colored graphic images in addition to said position-coding pattern, and wherein said ink supply comprises colored inks. 15. The printer of claim 11, which is configurable in at least one mode selected from: a conventional scanning mode in which said scanhead scans and said printhead does not print; an interactive scanning mode in which said scanhead scans, said printhead prints the position-coding pattern and said processor generates the association data; a conventional printing mode in which said printhead prints colored graphic images and said scanhead does not scan; and an interactive printing mode in which said printhead prints colored graphic images together with the position-coding pattern and said scanhead does not scan. 16. A system for conferring interactivity on a pre-printed graphic image, said system comprising: (A) a printer comprising: a feed mechanism for feeding a substrate past a printhead assembly, said substrate having a surface bearing a pre-printed graphic image; a printhead assembly comprising: a printhead for printing a position-coding pattern onto said surface, said position-coding pattern identifying an impression identity and a plurality of positions; a scanhead for scanning the pre-printed graphic image; an ink supply containing an ink for printing the position-coding pattern; a processor configured for generating association data, said association data indicating an association between a scanned graphic image, the impression identity and the plurality of positions; and communication means for communicating the association data to a computer system; and (B) the computer system configured for: receiving the association data; and storing a page description for said scanned graphic image, said page description being indexed with said impression identity wherein said page description is retrievable so as to confer interactivity on the graphic image, and wherein said impression identity is initially unassociated with said pre-printed graphic image. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said computer system is configured for: (i) performing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the scanned graphic image to convert text images into computer text; (ii) generating an input description for said scanned graphic image, said input description describing words of computer text and zones of corresponding text images in the scanned graphic image; and (iii) storing the page description comprising said input description and said scanned graphic image, said page description being indexed with said impression identity, wherein said page description is retrievable so as to confer interactivity on the graphic image. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein said computer system is further configured for: identifying a URI text string in the computer text; and generating the input description further describing a URI corresponding to said URI text string and a zone of the corresponding URI text string in the scanned graphic image. 