A method and apparatus for toy tabbing a vehicle body is provided. This method includes a carrier means for transporting a vehicle body into a single work station and a delivery means for delivering side aperture panels to the work station. Vehicle body parts are supplied within the work station by an electrically indexed parts magazine. A programmable robotic means is provided for loading and assembling the side aperture panels and the vehicle body components to the vehicle underbody. A positioning unit is also provided to support the side aperture panels adjacent to the underbody to allow the programmable robotic means to assemble the vehicle's main body framework.
Claims I claim: 1. In a work station for assembling together the main body framework components of a vehicle, including an underbody, roof headers, roof bows, and two side aperture panels, each component having plurality of tab members; an automated method of assembling and holding the vehicle body framework components together using a toy tab system, comprising the steps of: transporting an underbody into a work station by a first carrier means for carrying said underbody into said work station for assembly and out of said work station when assembled; holding said first carrier means in a proper X, Y, and Z coordinate location by a lower locating means fixed within the work station that accurately positions said first carrier means; delivering a plurality of side aperture panels over said work station by a second carrier means for carrying said panels into said work station; unloading said panels from said second carrier means onto an elevator means capable of extracting said panels from said second carrier means and moving vertically and horizontally; lowering said panels into said workstation by said elevator means; positioning alongside said workstation, a plurality of programmable robotic means capable of performing multiple functions; unloading said panels from said elevator means by clamping onto said panels with said gripping means of said robotic means; positioning said panels alongside said underbody using said robotic means; clamping onto said gripping means of said robotic means by a lower clamping means; disengaging said robotic means from said panels; supplying a plurality of roof headers and roof bows into said work station by a delivery means; positioning said roof headers and roof bows on said panels using said robotic means; bending the plurality of tab members of said underbody, panels, roof headers and roof bows around an adjoining edge using said robotic means forming an intact vehicle body; releasing said lower clamping means from said body; and transporting said body out of said workstation by said first carrier means. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said first carrier means consists of a monotractor carrier system. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said second carrier means consists of an aperture float and delivery monotractor system. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said delivery means is a magazine. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said robotic means is capable of performing multiple functions by changing a plurality of tools affixed to a boom member of said robotic means. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said tools includes a panel fixture, a gripper and a bender. 