Multiple parallel signal streams are produced by the sensors (20, 30, 40, 50) associated with a device (10). Events corresponding to real-world activities, contexts, environments, internal-states, uses, interactions and the like involving the device (10) can be detected in the multi-channel sensor-signal stream by evaluating how the pattern of coordination between the different sensors varies over time. The pattern of coordination between the sensors can be evaluated for a particular time period by computing an information distance matrix (IDM) for the sensor-signals generated during that time period. The IDM summarizes the normalized information distance between each possible pairing of the sensors.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A signal processing method performed on a hardware processor for detecting an event in a multi-channel sensor-signal stream, comprising the steps of: inputting a section of said multi-channel sensor-signal stream to said hardware processor, said section including respective signal streams output by a plurality of sensors during a common time period, evaluating a pattern of coordination that exists between the sensor-signal streams during respective time intervals within said common time period with said hardware processor, producing, as a measure of the pattern of coordination between the sensor-signal streams during each time interval, parameters characterizing the relationships between different pairs of the sensor-signal streams during the respective time intervals, comparing the patterns of coordination evaluated for the respective time intervals in said common time period by using the parameters of said producing, to detect a series of consecutive time intervals during which there is little or no variation in the evaluated patterns of coordination, and identifying a beginning and an end of said series of consecutive time intervals as a start and an end point of the event in the multi-channel sensor-signal stream. 2. The event-detection method according to claim 1, wherein the evaluating step further comprises: computing the information distance between signals from pairs of said sensors during said time interval. 3. The event-detection method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the plurality of sensors are configured to measure values of parameters of at least one of environment, use, context and internal state of a device, and are configured to capture at least one of parameters of interactions occurring between said device and one or more external agents, wherein said external agents include at least one of the environment, one or more users, and one or more devices. 4. The event-detection method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the plurality of sensors comprises: sensors configured to measure values of parameters of at least one of environment, use, context and internal state of a set of devices and parameters of interactions occurring between one or more devices of said set and one or more external agents, wherein said external agents include the environment, one or more users, or one or more devices. 5. The event-detection method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the plurality of sensors are configured to measure values of parameters of at least one of the environment, physical state of a human or animal, parameters of activities engaged in by said human or animal, and parameters of interactions occurring between said human or animal and one or more external agents, wherein said external agents include at least one of the environment, one or more users, and one or more devices. 6. The event-detection method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein a correspondence between the different channels of the multi-channel sensor-signal stream and the individual sensors within said plurality of sensors is unknown. 7. Event-detection apparatus configured to detect an event in a multi-channel sensor-signal stream, the apparatus comprising: input means configured to receive as an input a section of said multi-channel sensor-signal stream, said section including respective signal streams output by a plurality of sensors during a common time period; computing means configured to evaluate a pattern of coordination that exists between the sensor-signal streams during respective different time intervals within said common time period; producing means that generates, as a measure of the pattern of coordination between the sensor-signal streams during each time interval, parameters characterizing the relationships between different pairs of the sensor-signal streams during the respective time intervals; comparing means configured to compare the patterns of coordination evaluated for the respective time intervals in said common time period by using the parameters of said producing means, to detect a series of consecutive time intervals during which there is little or no variation in the evaluated patterns of coordination; identification means configured to identify a beginning and a-an end of said series of consecutive time intervals as a start and an end point of the event in the multi-channel sensor-signal stream; and output means configured to generate and output details of the event identified by the identification means. 8. Event-detection apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the computing means is further configured to evaluate the pattern of coordination between sensor streams during a give time interval by computing the information distances between pairs of said sensor streams during said time interval. 9. Event-detection apparatus according to claim 7, further comprising: classification means configured to assign a category to the event detected by the comparing means, wherein the output means is further configured to output event data identifying the category of the detected event. 10. An event-detection system comprising: an event-detection apparatus configured to detect an event in a multi-channel sensor-signal stream, the event-detection apparatus including, input means configured to receive as an input a section of said multi-channel sensor-signal stream, said section including respective signal streams output by a plurality of sensors during a common time period, computing means configured to evaluate a pattern of coordination that exists between the sensor-signal streams during respective different time intervals within said common time period, producing means that generates, as a measure of the pattern of coordination between the sensor-signal streams during each time interval, parameters characterizing the relationships between different pairs of the sensor-signal streams during the respective time intervals, comparing means configured to compare the patterns of coordination evaluated for the respective time intervals in said common time period by using the parameters of said producing means, to detect a series of consecutive time intervals during which there is little or no variation in the evaluated patterns of coordination, identification means configured to identify a beginning and an end of said series of consecutive time intervals as a start and an end point of the event in the multi-channel sensor-signal stream, and output means configured to generate and output details of the event identified by the identification means; and a set of sensors, that are configured to produce said multi-channel sensor-signal stream. 11. The event-detection system according to claim 10, wherein the computing means of the event-detection apparatus is further configured to evaluate the pattern of coordination between sensor streams during a given time interval by computing the information distances between pairs of said sensor streams during said time interval. 12. The event-detection system according to claim 10 or claim 11, said event-detection apparatus further comprising: classification means configured to assign a category to the event detected by the comparing means, wherein the output means is further configured to output event data identifying the category of the detected event. 