A system and process for fluid jet cutting of a workpiece providing for self orientation of a catcher vessel. This invention comprises a cutting head adapted to be connected to the robot arm of a robotically controlled cutting system. A nozzle is mounted in the cutting head and adapted to dispense a jet cutting fluid stream along a cutting axis to be directed against a workpiece. The system further comprises a catcher assembly including a bracket supporting a catcher vessel having a receiving aperture. The catcher vessel contains a sacrificial material for dissipation of kinetic energy of the spent jet cutting stream. The supporting bracket includes an arm which depends from the cutting head along a traverse which is laterally offset from the cutting axis. The catcher vessel is oriented so that the receiving aperture is aligned with the cutting axis of the nozzle so that the spent cutting stream emanating from the nozzle and passing through the workpiece ultimately passes into the aperture of the cutting vessel. The catcher assembly is rotatably mounted on the cutting head for rotation about an axis coincident with the cutting axis along which the fluid stream is directed. This allows the bracket and the catcher vessel to rotate relative to the nozzle while retaining the aligned orientation of the catcher vessel aperture with the cutting axis. Thus, the catcher vessel is maintained in a mechanically self oriented configuration relative to the nozzle throughout the cutting operation.
Claims I claim: 1. In a system for the abrasive jet cutting of a workpiece and the dissipation of kinetic energy in an abrasive jet cutting stream, the combination comprising: a cutting head adapted to be connected to a robot arm end for movement relative to a workpiece; a nozzle mounted in said cutting head and oriented to dispense a jet cutting fluid stream from said nozzle along a cutting axis adapted to be directed against a workpiece; a catcher assembly carried by said cutting head and including a catcher vessel having a receiving aperture and containing sacrificial material for dissipation of kinetic energy of said stream and a supporting bracket for said vessel, said bracket having an arm member depending downwardly from said cutting head in a laterally offset position from said cutting axis and supporting said catcher vessel at a location spaced from said nozzle in an orientation in which said receiving aperture is aligned with the cutting axis of said nozzle whereby a cutting stream emanating from said nozzle and passing through a workpiece will pass into the aperture of said catcher vessel; and means for rotatably mounting said catcher assembly on said cutting head for rotational movement of said bracket about said cutting axis whereby said catcher assembly may rotate relative to said nozzle while retaining the aligned orientation of said catcher vessel aperture with said cutting axis. 2. The combination of claim 1 further comprising a steering member mounted on said arm member and laterally offset from said cutting axis at a location corresponding to the interval between said nozzle and said aperture whereby said steering member upon contact with the edge of a workpiece being cut retains said bracket member in a location offset from an edge of the workpiece. 3. The combination of claim 1 wherein said catcher assembly further comprises an orientation member mounted on said catcher assembly at a location below the interval between said nozzle and said aperture and offset from said arm member in the direction of said cutting axis, said orientation member extending upwardly from said mounting location into the interval between said nozzle and said aperture in a compliant relationship relative to said catcher assembly to permit said orientation member upon contact with the edge of a workpiece being cut to be forced downwardly and ride on the underside of the workpiece being cut. 4. The combination of claim 1 further comprising means for rotatably mounting said catcher vessel on said bracket for rotation of said catcher vessel about the cutting axis of said nozzle. 5. The combination of claim 4 further comprising guide means secured to said catcher vessel to maintain said catcher vessel in a desired orientation relatve to said cutting head assembly. 6. The combination of claim 5 wherein said guide means comprise a guide pin extending upwardly relative to said catcher vessel and adapted to contact a surface of a workpiece being cut. 7. The system of claim 1 further comprising holding means for compliantly positioning said bracket assembly at a desired angular position relative to said cutting head, said holding means being sufficiently complaint to permit rotation of said bracket assembly relative to said cutting head upon contact of said bracket assembly with an edge of a workpiece being cut. 8. The system of claim 1 further comprising means interconnecting said cutting head and said robot arm end in a manner enabling the rotation of said cutting head through a plane generally normal to the projected angle of travel of said cutting head from an orientation of said cutting head in which the cutting axis is disposed vertically to an orientation in which said axis is inclined from the vertical permitting said bracket assembly to rotate under the influence of gravity to one side. 9. In a method for the abrasive jet cutting of a generally horizontally disposed workpiece, the steps comprising, providing a cutting head having a nozzle mounted therein and a catcher assembly comprising a catcher vessel having a receiving aperture and containing sacrificial material for the dissipation of kinetic energy remaining in a cutting stream and a bracket for holding said catcher vessel in an orientation in which the receiving aperture is aligned with the cutting axis of the nozzle, said catcher assembly being rotatably mounted on said cutting head for rotation about the cutting axis of said nozzle, moving said cutting head along a path toward the edge of said workpiece in a position to operate said cutting assembly to trim an edge of said workpiece, tilting said cutting head through an angle to incline said cutting axis from the vertical in a direction away from a proximate edge of said workpiece to cause said bracket to swing outwardly away from said workpiece, thereafter tilting said cutting head through a reverse angle back to a cutting position in which said nozzle is pointed downwardly toward the upper surface of said workpiece, and moving said cutting head along said workpiece while directing a high pressure stream of fluid containing abrasive particulate material from said nozzle to produce a cutting kerf in said panel and collecting spent cutting stream emanating from the bottom of the cutting kerf in said panel through the receiving aperture of said catcher vessel. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said cutting head is tilted by rotation through the roll axis of said cutting head through an angle in a plane generally normal to the direction of travel of the cutting head toward said workpiece. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein said cutting head is tilted by rotation through the pitch axis of said cutting head through an angle in a plane generally along the direction of travel of said cutting head toward said workpiece so that said cutting head axis is inclined away from the leading edge of said workpiece. 