A robotic system including a manipulator arm for moving a device to a predetermined point within a working volume under control of microprocessor based control unit. The manipulator arm includes various sections and joints defining a base, a shoulder, an arm and a wrist. The wrist is jointed to pivot about a pitch axis and a roll axis. The manipulator is arranged to pivot the arm about the base axis and shoulder axis, which axes intersect at a common point. The arm includes a section which is extendable through the use of telescoping links. The wrist is mounted on the end of the telescoping links, with the pitch and roll axes intersecting at a second point. The second point lies along the extension axis of the arm links and is spaced from the shoulder-base axis intersection point. The links forming the telescoping section are arranged to move in unison with each other. A motor and associated harmonic drives are provided to effect the motion at the joints.
Claims We claim: 1. In a robotic system a manipulator for moving a device to a predetermined point within a working volume under control of microprocessor based control means comprising base joint means including a rotatable section, a first section extending from said rotatable section and being fixed against rotation relative thereto, shoulder joint means, a second section extending along an extension axis from said shoulder joint means and wrist joint means mounted adjacent an end of said second section for supporting said device thereon, said wrist joint means comprising pitch joint means and roll joint means, said rotatable section of said base joint means being arranged to pivot said first section through a first predetermined arc about a first axis, said shoulder joint means being arranged to pivot said second section through a second predetermined arc about a second axis, said second axis intersecting said first axis perpendicularly at a first point at all positions of said device within said working volume, said pitch joint means being arranged to pivot said device through a third predetermined arc about a third axis, said roll joint means being arranged to pivot said device through a fourth predetermined arc about a fourth axis, said fourth axis intersecting said third axis perpendicularly at a second point, said third axis and said second axis being disposed parallel to each other, said first and second points lying along said extension axis. 2. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein said second section comprises a linearly extensible joint. 3. The manipulator of claim 2 wherein said linearly extensible joint comprises plural link means. 4. The manipulator of claim 3 wherein said link means are telescopeable. 5. The manipulator of claim 4 wherein said link means comprise a first link means secured to said shoulder joint means, a second link means arranged to move into and out of said first link means and a third link means arranged to move into and out of said second link means, said wrist joint means being mounted on said third link means. 6. The manipulator of claim 5 additionally comprising means for moving said second and third link means in unison. 7. The manipulator of claim 6 wherein said last-mentioned means for moving comprises screw means and associated rope means. 8. The manipulator of claim 7 wherein said screw means comprises an elongated screw secured to said first link means and cooperating nut means secured to said second link means, said nut means being arranged to travel along said screw means to move said second link means with respect to said first link means. 9. The manipulator of claim 8 wherein said rope means comprise at least one extension rope secured between said first link means and said third link means and one retraction rope secured between said first link means and said second link means, said second link means including first pull means arranged to be pulled by said extension rope and second pull means arranged to be pulled by said retraction rope. 10. The manipulator of claim 9 wherein said first pull means comprises a first pulley secured to said second link means and wherein said second pull means comprises a second pulley secured to said second link means. 11. The manipulator of claim 10 wherein each of said link means comprises a forward bulkhead and a rear bulkhead and wherein said extension rope is connected between the rear bulkhead of said first link means and the rear bulkhead of said third link means, said retraction rope is connected between the front bulkhead of said first link means and the rear bulkhead of said third link means, said first pulley is mounted on the front bulkhead of said second link means and said second pulley is mounted on the rear bulkhead of said second link means. 12. The manipulator of claim 5 comprises first guide means for guiding the movement of said second link means with respect to said first link means and second guide means for guiding the movement of said third link means with respect to said second link means. 13. The manipulator of claim 12 wherein said first guide means is located within said first link means and comprises at least one elongated guide rail and wherein said second guide means is located within said second link means and comprises at least one elongated guide rail. 14. The manipulator of claim 13 wherein said second link means is mounted on the guide rail of said first guide means by a bushing and wherein the third link means is mounted on the guide rail of the second guide means by a bushing. 15. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein the maximum first predetermined arc is approximately 355.degree., the maximum second predetermined arc is approximately 300.degree., the maximum third predetermined arc is approximately 210.degree. and the maximum fourth predetermined arc is approximately 355.degree.. 16. The manipulator of claim 1 wherein said base joint means, shoulder joint means and wrist roll joint means each comprises motor means and harmonic drive means. 17. The manipulator of claim 16 wherein each of said joint means can be readily disconnected from the remaining portion of the manipulator. 18. The manipulator of claim 1, further comprising electronically controlled motor means and coupling means for effecting movement of said joints, wherein said motor means comprises a plurality of motors, each coupled by associated coupling means to a respective one of said joints. 19. The manipulator of claim 18, wherein each of said motors is located generally adjacent the particular joint whose movement is effected by that motor, thus reducing the complexity of the coupling means and enabling the arm to produce highly accurate movements. 20. The manipulator of claim 19, wherein said motor means comprises plural electric motors. 21. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein a substantial portion of said first section is off-set from said first axis. 22. The manipulator of claim 21, wherein said first section is generally "L-shaped" so as to achieve said off-set. 23. The manipulator of claim 21, wherein said first section comprises interconnected first and second leg members which are substantially parallel but not colinear, with said first and second axes, respectively. 24. The manipulator of claim 1, wherein each of said joints is controlled independently of every other joint. 25. In a robotic system a manipulator arm for moving a device to a position in space comprising first joint means, an arm section mounted on said first joint means for rotation through a predetermined arc about a first axis and second joint means mounted on said arm section at a spaced location from said first joint means, said second joint means being arranged to support said device thereon, said arm section comprising first, second and third link means telescopically interconnected, whereupon said second joint means can be positioned at various predetermined distances from said first joint means, said first link means being secured to said first joint means, said second link means being arranged to move into and out of said first link means and said third link means being arranged to move into and out of said second link means, said arm section incIuding screw means and associated rope means for moving said second and third link means in unison, said screw means comprising an elongated screw secured to said first link means and cooperating nut means secured to said link means, said nut means being arranged to travel along said screw means to move said second link means with respect to said first link means, said rope means comprising at least one extension rope secured between said first link means and said third link means, one retraction rope secured between said first link means and said second link means, said second link means including first pull means arranged to be pulled by said extension rope and second pull means arranged to be pulled by said retraction rope. 26. The arm of claim 25 wherein said first pull means comprises a first pulley secured to said second link means and wherein said second pull means comprises a second pulley secured to said second link means. 27. The arm of claim 26 wherein each of said link means comprises a forward bulkhead and a rear bulkhead and wherein said extension rope is connected between the rear bulkhead of said first link means and the rear bulkhead of said third link means, said retraction rope is connected between the front bulkhead of said first link means and the rear bulkhead of said third link means, said first pulley is mounted on the front bulkhead of said second link means and said second pulley is mounted on the rear bulkhead of said second link means. 28. The arm of claim 25 additionally comprising first guide means for guiding the movement of said second link means with respect to said first link means and second guide means for guiding the movement of said third link means with respect to said second link means. 29. The arm of claim 28 wherein said first guide means is located within said first link means and comprises at least one elongated guide rail and wherein said second guide means is located within said second link means and comprises at least one elongated guide rail. 30. The arm of claim 29 wherein said second link is mounted on the guide rail of said first guide means by a bushing and wherein the third link means is mounted on the guide rail of the second guide means by a bushing. 