A cable connector includes at least two electrically conductive slip ring members with freely rotatable contact surfaces which are mutually frictionally engaged with one another. Provision is made for selectively forcing the contact surfaces into highly pressurized engagement so as to lock them together during application of current through the cable. The present invention finds particular utility as a rotary joint cable connector for a pneumatically operated spot welding gun.
Claims We claim: 1. In a rotary joint cable connector, the improvement comprising: at least two electrically conductive members having opposing contact surfaces normally held in wiping engagement with each other; and actuator means coupled to said members for selectively forcing the contact surfaces into highly pressurized locking engagement during application of current through the cable. 2. The improvement of claim 1 wherein said members are slip rings mounted for rotation about a common longitudinal axis. 3. The improvement of claim 2 wherein the contact surface of one of said slip rings is in the shape of a cone, with the contact surface of the other slip ring having a conical depression into which said cone is nested. 4. The improvement of claim 3 wherein at least one of said contacting surfaces includes radially extending grooves therein adapted to provide passageways for removal of matter from the wiping contact surfaces. 5. A rotary joint cable connector for a spot welding gun automatically positioned relative to a workpiece by a robot, said connector comprising: first and second electrically conductive inner slip ring members insulated from each other and having generally conical projections on opposite end contact faces, said slip rings being adapted to rotate together about a major axis; third and fourth outer electrically conductive slip ring members, each having conical depressions on inner contact faces thereof for receiving the conical projections of said first and second slip rings, respectively; means for electrically connecting a welding cable to the outer periphery of said first and second slip ring members; means for electrically connecting said third and fourth slip ring members to the spot welding gun; means for normally holding the contact surfaces of the slip rings in wiping arrangement with each other; and actuator means for selectively compressing said slip ring members into mutually locked engagement when current is supplied to the spot welding gun by the cable. 6. The connector of claim 5 wherein said first, second, third and fourth slip rings are concentrically mounted about a conduit through which water may pass to remove heat from the connector. 7. The connector of claim 5 wherein said actuator means comprises: a pneumatically operated piston. 8. The connector of claim 7 wherein said spot welding gun includes a pair of pneumatically operated electrodes, and wherein said spot welding gun and piston of the connector are simultaneously activated by a common fluid source. 9. The connector of claim 5 which further comprises: a plurality of radially extending grooves on the contact face of at least one of said slip rings, adapted to provide passageways for removal of matter from the wiping contact surfaces. 10. The connector of claim 7 which further comprises: spring means for maintaining the contact faces of said slip rings in wiping contact when the piston is not activated. 11. A rotary joint cable connector comprising: a shaft; a first inner electrically conductive slip ring member having a conically projecting contact surface; a second inner electrically conductive slip ring member insulated from said first slip ring member, said second slip ring member having a conically projecting contact surface; a third outer electrically conductive slip ring member having a contact surface with a conical depression into which said conically projecting contact surface of said first slip ring member nests; a fourth outer electrically conductive slip ring member having a contact surface with a conical depression into which the conically projecting contact surface of said second slip ring member nests; said first, second, third, and fourth slip ring members being mounted for rotational movement about said shaft; said first and second slip ring members including lugs onto which a welding cable may be mounted such that the major longitudinal axis of an end portion of the cable is generally parallel with the shaft; said third and fourth slip ring members including lugs for connecting to an external device to be powered by current supplied by the cable; a concentrically mounted actuator mechanism on the shaft, said actuator mechanism including a cylinder with a reciprocating piston mounted within a bore therein, said piston having an end face for pressing against one of said outer slip ring members; spring means for urging said piston against said slip ring members to bring the contact surfaces thereof into wiping engagement; and means for connecting said cylinder bore to a pressure source for selectively activating said piston to further compress said slip ring members together and hold them in a locked relationship. 12. The connector of claim 11 wherein said shaft is hollow and adapted to pass recirculating liquid therethrough to remove heat from the connector. 