The invention discloses a method of determining the position and orientation of an element (such as a platform) in space by determining the intersection of a line with a plane (or with another line). Three different implementations are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of sensing the positional orientation of elements in space, comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of light sensors on an element which is movable in space; said element comprising a transparent plate having patterns projected thereon; providing a pair of light projectors at positions spaced from said element; directing light beams from said projectors at said light sensors; modulating the angular position of said light beams over time; and correlating the time of illumination of each sensor with the position of the projected beam at the time of such illumination, so as to determine the angular position of each sensor with respect to each of said projectors. 2. A method of sensing the positional orientation of elements in space, comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of light sensors on an element which is movable in space; said light sensors comprising solid state TV chip means; providing a pair of light projectors at positions spaced from said element; directing light beams from said projectors at said light sensors; modulating the angular position of said light beams over time; and correlating the time of illumination of each sensor with the position of the projected beam at the time of such illumination, so as to determine the angular position of each sensor with respect to each of said projectors. 3. A method as defined in claim 2, and rotating a color wheel for simultaneous transmission of projector codes. 4. A method of sensing the positional orientation of elements in space, comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of light sensors on an element which is movable in space; said light sensors comprising an object having a predetermined shape; providing a pair of light projectors at positions spaced from said element; directing light beams from said projectors at said light sensors; modulating the angular position of said light beams over time; and correlating the time of illumination of each sensor with the position of the projected beam at the time of such illumination, so as to determine the angular position of each sensor with respect to each of said projectors. 5. A method of sensing the positional orientation of elements in space, comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of light sensors on an element which is movable in space; said light sensors comprising rotating light detector means; providing a pair of light projectors at positions spaced from said element; directing light beams from said projectors at said light sensors; modulating the angular position of said light beams over time; and correlating the time of illumination of each sensor with the position of the projected beam at the time of such illumination, so as to determine the angular position of each sensor with respect to each of said projectors. 