The present invention generally includes a load lock chamber for transferring large area substrates into a vacuum processing chamber. The load lock chamber may have one or more separate, environmentally isolated environments. Each processing environment may have a plurality exhaust ports for drawing a vacuum. The exhaust ports may be located at the corners of the processing environment. When a substrate is inserted into the load lock chamber from the factory interface, the environment may need to be evacuated. Due to the exhaust ports located at the corners of the environment, any particles or contaminants that may be present may be pulled to the closest corner and out of the load lock chamber without being pulled across the substrate. Thus, substrate contamination may be reduced.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a chamber body having a plurality of sidewalls, the chamber body sized to receive at least one substrate, one or more first openings through a first sidewall that is sized to permit insertion and removal of the at least one substrate, a plurality of second openings disposed through a second sidewall that is coupled to the first sidewall and are sized to permit evacuating and venting of the chamber body, wherein the second openings are coupled to one or more vacuum devices for the evacuation of a processing gas, a plurality of third openings disposed through a third sidewall that is coupled to the first sidewall and are sized to permit evacuating and venting of the chamber body, wherein the third openings are coupled to one or more vacuum devices for the evacuation of the processing gas, and one or more fourth openings through a fourth sidewall that is sized to permit insertion and removal of the at least one substrate, wherein the fourth sidewall is coupled to both the second sidewall and the third sidewall and wherein the plurality of second openings and the plurality of third openings include a plurality of vacuum ports positioned apart from each other and at opposite ends of the sidewalls. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more vacuum devices comprises a plurality of vacuum pumps with one vacuum pump coupled to each second opening. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of second openings comprises at least one vent port and at least one vacuum port. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein a first vacuum port of the at least one vacuum port is positioned at the second sidewall and a second vacuum port is positioned at the third sidewall. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein each of the vacuum ports are coupled with a separate vacuum pump. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more vacuum devices comprises a vacuum pump coupled with a plurality of the second openings. 7. An apparatus, comprising: N vertically stacked single substrate load lock chambers forming a unitary body, where N is an integer greater than two, the load lock chambers each having a first wall having a first opening therethrough that is sized to permit a substrate to pass therethrough, the load lock chambers each having a second wall having a second opening therethrough having dimensions substantially equal to the dimensions of the first opening; N-1 interior walls, each interior wall separating and environmentally isolating adjacent substrate load lock chambers; a plurality of third walls coupled between the first and second walls, each load lock chamber having two third walls coupled between the first and second walls, each third wall having a plurality of third openings therethrough having dimensions smaller than the dimensions of the first openings, wherein the plurality of openings are positioned apart from each other and at opposite ends of the third walls; and one or more vacuum pumps coupled to the third walls at the third openings. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein each third wall has two third openings. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein a single vacuum pump is coupled to the plurality of third openings on the plurality of third walls. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein N is three. 11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein a single vacuum pump is coupled to the N vertically stacked single substrate load lock chambers. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the plurality of openings in the plurality of third walls are located below a substrate receiving surface in each load lock chamber. 13. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the plurality of openings in the plurality of third walls are located below a substrate receiving surface in each load lock chamber. 14. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein N is three. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein a single vacuum pump is coupled to the plurality of openings on the plurality of third walls. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the plurality of openings in the plurality of third walls are located below a substrate receiving surface in each load lock chamber. 