A method for rapid tool manufacturing comprising the steps of first building an SFF pattern made of plastic to be used to make a first die half. Then there is the step of spraying metal onto the pattern to form a first metal substrate. Next, there is the step of separating the substrate from the SFF pattern to form the first die half. Then there is the step of building a second SFF pattern to be used to make a second die half. Next, there is the step of spraying metal onto the second SFF pattern to form a second metal substrate. Then there is the step of separating the second metal substrate from the second SFF pattern to form the second die half. In a preferred embodiment, the method for rapid tool manufacturing the second die half is formed by first the step of building an SFF model of a part to be molded. Then, there is the step of inserting the model into the first die half. Next, there is the step of spraying metal onto the model in the first die half to form a second metal substrate. Then there is the step of separating the second metal substrate from the model and the first die half to form the second die half.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for rapid tool manufacturing comprising the steps of: building an SFF pattern made of plastic to be used to make a first die half; spraying metal onto the pattern without any solid layer between the pattern and the metal to form a first metal substrate; separating the substrate from the SFF pattern to form the first die half; building a second SFF pattern to be used to make a second die half; spraying metal onto the second SFF pattern to form a second metal substrate; and separating the second metal substrate from the second SFF pattern to form the second die half. 2. A method for rapid tool manufacturing comprising the steps of: building an SFF pattern made of plastic to be used to make a first die half; spraying metal onto the pattern without any solid layer between the pattern and the metal to form a first metal substrate; separating the substrate from the SFF pattern to form the first die half; building an SFF model of a part to be molded; inserting the model into the first die half; spraying metal onto the model in the first die half to form a second metal substrate; and separating the second metal substrate from the model and the first die half to form the second die half. 3. A method as described in claim 2 including after the step of spraying metal onto the pattern the step of pouring backing material onto the first metal substrate to support it. 4. A method as described in claim 3 including before the step of spraying metal on the pattern, the step of applying a water soluble release agent on the pattern. 5. A method as described in claim 4 wherein the step of separating the substrate from the pattern includes the step of dissolving the water-soluble release agent. 6. A method as described in claim 5 including after the step of building the SFF pattern, the step of placing a metal frame onto the pattern; and wherein the step of spraying metal on the pattern includes the step of spraying metal around the inside edge of the metal frame. 7. A method as described in claim 6 including before the pouring step the step of laying in place on the first metal substrate tubing for channels. 8. A method as described in claim 7 including after the inserting step, the step of applying a water-soluble release agent on the model, and placing a second metal frame on the first die half; and after the step of spraying metal onto the model and around the inside edge of the frame; the steps of laying in place on the model tubing for cooling channels; pouring backing material on the model to support the second metal substrate; and dissolving the water-soluble release agent between the second metal substrate and the model. 9. A method as described in claim 8 wherein the building step includes the step of building an SLA pattern. 10. A method as described in claim 1 wherein the spraying step includes the step of spraying metal onto the pattern in multiple layers without any solid layer between the pattern and the metal. 11. A method as described in claim 10 wherein the step of building any SFF pattern made of plastic includes the step of building an SFF pattern made of plastic from a computer-based geometric model. 12. A method as described in claim 11 wherein the spraying step includes the step of robotically spraying metal onto the pattern in correspondence with the computer-based geometric model. 13. A method as described in claim 12 wherein before the building step, there is the step of creating the computer-based model on a CAD/CAM system. 14. A method as described in claim 13 wherein the spraying step includes the step of spraying zinc. 15. A method as described in claim 2 wherein the spraying step includes the step of spraying metal onto the pattern in multiple layers without any solid layer between the pattern and the metal. 16. A method as described in claim 15 wherein the step of building an SFF pattern made of plastic includes the step of building an SFF pattern made of plastic from a computer-based geometric model. 17. A method as described in claim 16 wherein the spraying step includes the step of robotically spraying metal onto the pattern. 18. A method as described in claim 17 wherein before the building step, there is the step of creating the computer-based model on a CAD/CAM system. 19. A method as described in claim 18 wherein the spraying step includes the step of spraying zinc. 20. A method for rapid tool manufacturing comprising the steps of: building an SFF pattern made of plastic to be used to make a die half; spraying metal onto the pattern without any solid layer between the pattern and the metal to form a metal substrate; separating the substrate from the SFF pattern to form the die half. 21. A method as described in claim 20 wherein the spraying step includes the step of spraying metal onto the pattern in multiple layers without any solid layer between the pattern and the metal. 22. A method as described in claim 21 wherein the step of building an SFF pattern made of plastic includes the step of building an SFF pattern made of plastic from a computer-based geometric model. 23. A method as described in claim 22 wherein the spraying step includes the step of robotically spraying metal onto the pattern. 24. A method as described in claim 23 wherein before the building step, there is the step of creating the computer-base model on a CAD/CAM system. 25. A method as described in claim 24 wherein the spraying step includes the step of spraying zinc. 26. A method for rapid tool manufacturing comprising the steps of: building an SFF pattern from a computer-based geometric model; and robotically spraying metal onto the SFF pattern in correspondence with the computer based geometric model. 27. A method as described in claim 26 wherein before the building step, there is the step of creating the computer-based geometric model on a CAD/CAM system. 