Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including: but not limited to, critical dimension and overlay misregistration; defects and thin film characteristics; critical dimension and defects; critical dimension and thin film characteristics; critical dimension, thin film characteristics and defects; macro defects and micro defects; flatness, thin film characteristics and defects; overlay misregistration and flatness; an implant characteristic and defects; and adhesion and thickness. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system configured to determine at least two properties of a specimen during use, comprising: a stage configured to support the specimen during use; a measurement device coupled to the stage, wherein the measurement device is configured as a spectroscopic scatterometer and a spectroscopic ellipsometer, and wherein the measurement device comprises: an illumination system configured to direct energy toward a surface of the specimen during use; and a detection system coupled to the illumination system and configured to detect energy propagating from the surface of the specimen during use, wherein the measurement device is further configured to generate one or more output signals in response to the detected energy during use; and a processor coupled to the measurement device and configured to determine a first property and a second property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, wherein the specimen comprises at least one diffracting structure and one or more films underneath the at least one diffracting structure, wherein the first property comprises a grating shape parameter of the at least one diffracting structure, and wherein the second property comprises overlay misregistration of the specimen. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the spectroscopic scatterometer and the spectroscopic ellipsometer share common optical elements. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further configured as a spectroscopic reflectometer. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further configured as a spectroscopic reflectometer, and wherein the spectroscopic scatterometer, the spectroscopic ellipsometer, and the spectroscopic reflectometer share common optical elements. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further configured to measure film thickness and optical refractive index of the one or more films. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further configured as a spectroscopic reflectometer, and wherein the measurement device is further configured to measure film thickness and optical refractive index of the one or more films using the spectroscopic ellipsometer or the spectroscopic reflectometer. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to obtain film thickness and optical refractive index of the one or more films. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the specimen comprises two or more diffracting structures and the one or more films underneath the two or more diffracting structures, and wherein the system is further configured to obtain film thickness and optical refractive index of the one or more films only once for all of the two or more diffracting structures. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the grating shape parameter comprises critical dimension, sidewall angle, or height of the at least one diffracting structure. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more output signals are generated by the measurement device in real time during a process performed on the specimen. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the detected energy comprises wavelengths of light in an ultraviolet band. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further configured to generate the one or more output signals using broadband radiation. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the measurement device is further configured to generate the one or more output signals using polarized radiation. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine within wafer variation in at least one of the at least two properties of the specimen and to alter a parameter of a process chamber in response to the within wafer variation. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the detection system comprises an array detector that is back thinned. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a third property of the specimen from the one or more output signals during use, and wherein the third property comprises a presence of defects on the specimen. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to construct a reference database containing grating shape parameters for the at least one diffracting structure parameterized and varied over a range thereby defining a plurality of gratings in parameter space and theoretical ellipsometric parameters of diffraction from each of the plurality of gratings in the parameter space. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to construct a reference database containing grating shape parameters for the at least one diffracting structure parameterized and varied over a range thereby defining a plurality of gratings in parameter space and a theoretical diffracted light signature from each of the plurality of gratings in the parameter space. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein the illumination system is further configured to direct energy toward a bottom surface of the specimen during use, wherein the detection system is further configured to detect energy propagating from the bottom surface of the specimen during use, and wherein the third property further comprises a presence of defects on the bottom surface of the specimen. 20. The system of claim 17, wherein the system is further configured to obtain film thickness and optical refractive index of the one or more films, and wherein the film thickness and optical refractive index of the one or more films are used to construct the reference database such that the film thickness and optical refractive index of the one or more films are not variable parameters in the reference database. 21. The system of claim 17, wherein the one or more output signals comprise ellipsometric parameters of diffraction from the at least one diffracting structure, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the grating shape parameter of the at least one diffracting structure by comparing the ellipsometric parameters to the theoretical ellipsometric parameters in the reference database and determining the grating shape parameter of the at least one diffracting structure as the grating shape parameters parameter of in the reference database corresponding to the theoretical ellipsometric parameters that match the ellipsometric parameters of the at least one diffracting structure. 22. The system of claim 18, wherein the system is further configured to obtain film thickness and optical refractive index of the one or more films, and wherein the film thickness and optical refractive index of the one or more films are used to construct the reference database such that the film thickness and optical refractive index of the one or more films are not variable parameters in the reference database. 23. The system of claim 18, wherein the one or more output signals comprise a diffracted light signature of the at least one diffracting structure, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the grating shape parameter of the at least one diffracting structure by comparing the diffracted light signature of the at least one diffracting structure to the theoretical diffracted light signatures in the reference database and determining the grating shape parameter of the at least one diffracting structure as the grating shape parameter of the theoretical diffracted light signature that matches the diffracted light signature of at least one diffracting structure. 24. The system of claim 18, wherein the reference database is constructed without use of reference samples. 