A computer-controlled system determines attributes of a frexel, which is an area of human skin, and applies a reflectance modifying agent (RMA) at the pixel level to automatically change the appearance of human features based on one or more digital images. The change may be based on a digital image of the same frexel, for as seen in a prior digital photograph captured previously by the computer-controlled system. The system scans the frexel and uses feature recognition software to compare the person's current features in the frexel with that person's features in the digital image. It then calculates enhancements to the make the current features appear more like the features in the digital image, and it applies the RMA to the frexel to accomplish the enhancements. Or the change may be based on a digital image of another person, through the application of RMAs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for changing an appearance of a region of human skin of a first person, the system comprising: at least one reflectance modifying agent application element, the reflectance modifying agent application element being operable to selectively apply one or more reflectance modifying agents to frexels of the human skin; a computing environment that is coupled to the at least one reflectance modifying agent application element and that is operable to perform operations comprising: obtaining a first image showing one or more features desired for the region of the human skin, scanning a plurality of frexels of the human skin, generating a feature map based on the plurality of frexels, generating enhancement data based on the first image and the feature map, generating a second image based on the enhancement data, and instructing the at least one reflectance modifying agent application element to apply the one or more reflectance modifying agents to at least one of the plurality of frexels based on the second image. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the first image comprises a digital image of the region of human skin and includes desired features. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the first image comprises a digital image of a region of human skin of a second person. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the computing environment is further operable to perform operations comprising: comparing the first image with a third image of the first person, the third image having been generated after the first image; using the first image as a model to derive enhancement values based on the third image; and generating the second image as an enhancement image based on the enhancement values. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the computing environment is further operable to perform operations comprising: recognizing features in digital images; creating a digital image feature map; creating a frexel feature map; and generating the second image as an enhancement image based on a difference between values in the digital image feature map and values in the frexel image map, reduced by a filtering ratio. 6. A method for changing an appearance of a region of human skin of a first person, the method comprising obtaining a first image showing one or more features desired for the region of the human skin; scanning a plurality of frexels of the human skin to generate a feature map; generating enhancement data based on the first image and the feature map; generating a second image based on the enhancement data; and applying one or more reflectance modifying agents to at least one of the plurality of frexels based on the second image. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein obtaining the first image comprises retrieving the first image from computer-readable memory. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein obtaining the first image comprises generating the first image by averaging a plurality of digital images of the first person. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein the first image comprises digital image of a second person. 10. The method of claim 6 wherein the reflectance modifying agent application element is operable to selectively apply the one or more reflectance modifying agents to frexels of the human skin. 11. The method of claim 6 wherein obtaining the first image comprises obtaining the first image in a data format that comprises reflectance and topographical data. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the feature map further comprises scan data in a format that comprises reflectance and topographical data. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein generating enhancement data comprises comparing the reflectance and topographical data of the digital first image and the feature map. 14. The method of claim 6 wherein generating enhancement data comprises applying a filter to a difference between the first image and the feature map. 