A gripping apparatus has at least two elongated piercing elements which slide in elongated collars or sleeves between open retracted positions and closed gripping positions. The piercing elements define an angle and they move toward the vertex of the defined angle when they move from the open position to the closed position. The orientation of the piercing elements and their path of travel are such that objects are reliably and securely held when the piercing elements are in their closed positions and positively released when the piercing elements are in their open positions. A sensor may be provided with the gripping apparatus to sense the presence or condition of the gripped object. The gripping apparatus is especially useful in grasping the root masses of plants for transplanting purposes.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for gripping an object, comprising: a first elongated gripping element which is movable along a first line between a first retracted position and a second gripping position and which is capable of piercing an object to be gripped; a second elongated gripping element which is spaced a predetermined distance from the first gripping element, which is movable along a second line which is not parallel to the first line between a first retracted position and a second gripping position, and which is capable of piercing an object to be gripped; the first and second gripping elements being arranged such that the distance between the first and second gripping elements decreases when either one or both of the gripping elements is moved from their respective first retracted positions to their respective gripping positions; means for selectively moving the first and second gripping elements between their respective first retracted positions and their respective second gripping positions; a scissors mechanism between the moving means and the first an second gripping elements which renders the moving means capable of simultaneously moving the first and second gripping elements between their respective first retracted positions and their respective second gripping positions; and a sensor which is attached to said apparatus such that said sensor is positioned within an area defined by said gripping elements and said moving means so as to sense the presence of a plant being grasped. 2. The gripping apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a collar means into which the first and second gripping elements are retracted when in their respective retracted positions. 3. The gripping apparatus of claim 1, in which the first and second gripping elements each comprises a needle capable of piercing an object and holding it when the first and second gripping elements are in their respective second gripping positions. 4. The gripping apparatus of claim 3, further comprising: a means for forcing the needles to withdraw from an object when the needles are moved to their respective retracted positions. 5. The gripping apparatus of claim 4, in which the forcing means comprises: a collar means into which the needles retract when they are moved to their respective second retracted positions. 6. The gripping apparatus of claim 1, in which the gripping elements are substantially coplanar. 7. The gripping apparatus of claim 6, in which the plane containing the gripping elements is slanted at a predetermined angle with respect to a predetermined plane. 8. The gripping apparatus of claim 7, in which the angle is in the range of about 0 degrees to about 80 degrees with respect to a vertical plane. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising: a means for adjusting the angle of the plane with respect to a predetermined plane. 10. The gripping apparatus of claim 1, in which the angle between the gripping elements is in the range of about 20 degrees to about 90 degrees. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising: a means for adjusting the angle of the gripping elements with respect to each other. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising first and second actuators connected to the first and second gripping elements. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a single actuator connected to the first and second gripping elements. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a means for translating motion produced by the single actuator to the motion of the first and second gripping elements between retracted and gripping positions and to motion of the gripping elements which raise and lower an object pierced by the gripping elements. 15. A transplanting apparatus comprising: (a) a gripping means, comprising (1) a first elongated gripping element movable along a first line between a first retracted position and a second gripping position in which the first gripping element is capable of piercing a root mass of a plant to be transplanted; (2) a second elongated gripping element spaced a predetermined distance from the first gripping element and movable along a second line which is not parallel to the first line between a first retracted position and a second gripping position in which the second gripping element is capable of piercing the root mass of a plant to be transplanted; the first and second gripping elements being arranged such that the distance between the first and second gripping elements decreases when either one or both of the gripping elements is moved from their respective first retracted positions to their respective second gripping positions; (b) a means for supporting the gripping means in a predetermined orientation with respect to a first location having plants to be transplanted and with respect to a second location to which plants are to be transplanted; (c) a means for moving the gripping means between the fist and second locations; (d) a means for selectively moving the first and second gripping elements between their respective first retracted positions and their respective second gripping positions; (e) a scissors mechanism between the moving means and the first and second gripping elements which renders the moving means capable of simultaneously moving the first and second gripping elements between their respective first retracted positions and their respective second gripping positions; and (f) a sensor which is attached to said transplanting apparatus such that said sensor is positioned within an area defined by said gripping elements and said means for moving said gripping elements so as to sense the presence of a plant being gripped. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising: a collar means into which the first and second gripping elements are retracted when in their respective retracted positions. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, in which the first and second gripping elements each comprises a needle capable of piercing an object and holding it when the first and second gripping elements are in their respective second gripping positions. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising: a means for forcing the needles to withdraw from an object when the needles are moved to their respective retracted positions. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, in which the forcing means comprises: a collar means into which the needles retract when they are moved to their respective second retracted positions. 20. The apparatus of claim 15, in which the gripping elements are substantially coplanar. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, in which the plane containing the gripping elements is slanted at a predetermined angle with respect to a predetermined plane. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, in which the angle is in the range of about 0 degrees to about 80 degrees with respect to a vertical plane. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising: a means for adjusting the angle of the plane with respect to a predetermined plane. 24. The apparatus of claim 15, in which the angle between the gripping elements is in the range of about 20 degrees to about 90 degrees. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, further comprising: a means for adjusting the angle of the gripping elements with respect to each other. 26. A gripping apparatus, comprising: a first elongated gripping element movable along a first line between a first retracted position and a second gripping position in which the first gripping element is capable of piercing an object to be gripped; a second elongated gripping element movable along a second line between a first retracted position and a second gripping position in which the second gripping element is capable of piercing an object to be gripped. the first and second liens defining an angle in at least one plane; and the first and second gripping elements being arranged such that they approach the vertex of the angle as they are moved with from their respective first retracted positions to their respective second gripping positions; a means for selectively moving the first and second gripping elements between their respective first retracted positions and their respective second gripping positions; a scissors mechanism between the moving means and the first and second gripping elements which renders the moving means capable of simultaneously moving the first and second gripping elements between their respective first retracted positions and their respective second gripping positions; and a sensor which is attached to said apparatus such that said sensor is positioned within an area defined by said gripping elements and said moving means so as to sense the presence of a plant being grasped. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising: a collar means into which the first and second gripping elements are retracted when in their respective retracted positions. 28. The apparatus of claim 26, in which the first and second gripping elements each comprises a needle capable of piercing an object and holding it when the first and second gripping elements are in their respective second gripping positions. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, further comprising: a means for forcing the needles to withdraw from an object when the needles are moved to their respective retracted positions. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, in which the forcing means comprises: a collar means into which the needles retract when they are moved to their respective second retracted positions. 31. The apparatus of claim 26, in which the gripping elements are substantially coplanar. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, in which the plane containing the gripping elements is slanted at a predetermined angle with respect to a predetermined plane. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, in which the angle is in the range of about 0 degrees to about 80 degrees with respect to a vertical plane. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, further comprising: a means for adjusting the angle of the plane with respect to a predetermined plane. 35. The apparatus of claim 26, in which the angle between the gripping elements is in the range of about 20 degrees to about 90 degrees. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, further comprising: a means for adjusting the angle of the gripping elements with respect to each other. 37. A gripping apparatus, comprising: a first elongated gripping element movable along a first line between a first open position and a second gripping position in which the first gripping element is capable of piercing an object to be gripped; a second elongated gripping element movable along a second line between a first open position and a second gripping position in which the second gripping element is capable of piercing an object to be gripped; projections of the first and second liens defining an angle in at least one plane; projections of the first and second elements in the plane moving toward the vertex of the angle when the first and second elements are moved from their respective open positions to their respective gripping positions; a means for selectively moving the first and second gripping elements between their respective first retracted positions and their respective second gripping positions; a scissors mechanism between the moving means and the first and second gripping elements which renders the moving means capable of simultaneously moving the first and second gripping elements between their respective first retracted positions and their respective sound gripping positions; and a sensor which is attached to said apparatus such that said sensor is positioned within an area defined by said gripping elements and said moving means so as to sense the presence of a plant being grasped. 38. The apparatus of claim 37, further comprising: a collar means into which the first and second gripping elements are retracted when in their respective retracted positions. 39. The apparatus of claim 37, in which the first and second gripping elements each comprises a needle capable of piercing an object and holding it when the first and second gripping elements are in their respective second gripping positions. 40. The apparatus of claim 39, further comprising: a means for forcing the needles to withdraw from an object when the needles are moved to their respective retracted positions. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, in which the forcing means comprises: a collar means into which the needles retract when they are moved to their respective second retracted positions. 42. The apparatus of claim 37, in which the gripping elements are substantially coplanar. 43. The apparatus of claim 42, in which the plane containing the gripping elements is slanted at a predetermined angle with respect to a predetermined plane. 44. The apparatus of claim 43, in which the angle is in the range of about 0 degrees to about 80 degrees with respect to a vertical plane. 45. The apparatus of claim 44, further comprising: a means for adjusting the angle of the plane with respect to a predetermined plane. 46. The apparatus of claim 37, in which the angle between the gripping elements is in the range of about 20 degrees to about 90 degrees. 47. The apparatus of claim 46, further comprising: a means for adjusting the angle of the gripping elements with respect to each other. 