Gripper apparatus for electric motor components that can be used to grip components of different sizes, and that can rotationally index electric motor components of different sizes, is provided. The gripper apparatus has two oppositely facing gripper arms with complementary V-shaped faces sized to accommodate a range of sizes of components. The arms are moved together in unison to center and grip the component. After the component has been gripped, an indexing pawl rotates the component. A tooth is urged against the component and stops the rotation when it enters a depression or slot in the component, indicating that the desired angular position has been reached.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Gripper apparatus for gripping an electric motor component, said component having an axis, a surface, and at least one depression in said surface, said gripper apparatus further being for rotationally indexing said component about said axis, said gripper apparatus comprising: first and second gripper arms for contacting said component surface parallel to said component axis, each of said gripper arms having a gripper surface shaped for contacting said component surface to prevent translation of said component, at least one of said gripper arms being movable toward and away from the other of said gripper arms; means for moving said at least one of said gripper arms for causing said gripper arms to contact said component surface; indexing means for engaging said component surface and causing rotation of said component about said component axis; stopping means for stopping rotation of said component by said indexing means after said indexing means has rotated said component to a desired position; and disengaging means associated with said stopping means for disengaging said indexing means when said stopping means stops said rotation. 2. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first and second gripper arms are shaped for securely gripping an armature core. 3. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein a first one of said gripper arms is fixed and a second one of said gripper arms is movable towards and away from said first gripper arm. 4. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein both of said gripper arms are movable toward and away from each other. 5. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein: said component has at least two of said depressions; and said indexing means comprises: an arm, said arm having a tooth for engaging a second one of said depressions, and means for moving said arm about said axis, whereby said tooth, engaged in said second one of said depressions, causes said component to rotate about said axis. 6. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein said indexing means is coupled to one of said gripper arms. 7. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein said indexing means is coupled to said means for moving said at least one of said gripper arms. 8. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein said stopping means is coupled to one of said gripper arms. 9. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein said stopping means is coupled to said means for moving said at least one of said gripper arms. 10. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein said stopping means is in a fixed angular position about a line parallel to said axis. 11. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein the angular position of said stopping means with respect to a line parallel to said axis is adjustable. 12. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein said stopping means comprises probe means for engaging said at least one depression when said indexing means rotates said component to a position in which said depression is presented to said probe means. 13. The gripper apparatus of claim 12 wherein said probe means comprises: a probe element; a shaft, said probe element being mounted on said shaft adjacent a first end thereof; and biasing means for biasing said shaft and said probe element toward said component surface. 14. The gripper apparatus of claim 13 wherein: said disengaging means comprises sensor means associated with said probe means for stopping said indexing means from rotating said component when said probe means engages said depression; said sensor means comprises a switch; and said sensor means is mounted adjacent a second end of said shaft for actuation by said shaft. 15. The gripper apparatus of claim 14 wherein: said switch is a proximity switch; said sensor means further comprises a lever pivotally mounted adjacent said second end of said shaft; and said lever is pivoted toward and away from said proximity switch as said shaft moves axially in response to movement of said probe element along said component surface, thereby actuating said proximity switch. 16. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein said disengaging means comprises sensor means associated with said stopping means, for deactivating said indexing means when said stopping means stops said rotation. 17. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein said indexing means causes rotation of said component relative to said gripper apparatus. 18. The gripper apparatus of claim 17 wherein said gripper surface cradles said component, whereby said component may be rotated while gripped by said gripper surface. 19. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein said indexing means rotates at least a portion of said gripper apparatus (a) relative to said component about said component axis in a first direction, and (b) with said component about said component axis in a second direction opposite to said first direction. 20. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein the shape of said gripper surfaces accommodates components of varying sizes as a function of the spacing between said first and second gripper arms. 21. The gripper apparatus of claim 20 wherein said gripper surfaces are concave. 22. The gripper apparatus of claim 20 wherein said gripper surfaces are V-shaped. 23. The gripper apparatus of claim 20 wherein said gripper surfaces comprise camming surfaces for centering said component axis relative to said indexing means. 24. Gripper apparatus for gripping an electric motor component having a component surface, said gripper apparatus accommodating electric motor components of varying sizes and comprising: first and second gripper arms for contacting said component, each of said gripper arms having a gripper surface shaped for contacting said component surface to prevent translation of said component, at least one of said gripper arms being movable toward and away from the other of said gripper arms; means for moving said at least one of said gripper arms for causing said gripper arms to contact said component surface; means for measuring the degree to which said component has been gripped by said gripper arms; and means actuated by said measuring means for further acting on said component after said component has been gripped by said gripper arms; wherein: the shape of said gripper surfaces accommodates components of varying sizes as a function of the spacing between said first and second gripper arms. 25. The gripper apparatus of claim 24 wherein said gripper surfaces are concave. 26. The gripper apparatus of claim 24 wherein said gripper surfaces are V-shaped. 27. The gripper apparatus of claim 24 wherein said gripper surfaces comprise camming surfaces for centering said component relative to said gripper arms. 