A method for forming a robotic vehicle. The method may involve forming a body and arranging a plurality of movable legs to project from the body for propelling the body over a surface. An actuator may be carried by the body to selectively engage and disengage different ones of the movable legs to cause a motion of the body, and thus the robotic vehicle, to travel over the surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for forming a robotic vehicle, comprising: forming a body; disposing an actuator within the body and at a geometric center of the body; arranging a plurality of extendable, non-parallel legs on said body; articulating said actuator to align the actuator with different ones of said plurality of extendable, non-parallel legs; and using the actuator to selectively extend each of said legs to cause a motion of said body over a surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said arranging a plurality of extendable legs on said body comprises arranging a plurality of legs on said body such that a centerline of each of said legs intersects a geometric center of said body. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said using an actuator to selectively extend each of said legs comprises using an actuator to selectively extend each of said legs to cause a non-linear motion of said body. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said using an actuator to selectively extend each of said legs comprises using an actuator to selectively extend each of said legs to cause said body to move in a desired direction over a surface. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said actuator selectively extends each of said legs to cause a rolling motion of said body over said surface. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said using an actuator comprises using an actuator that is supported on a platform, where said platform is supported by a gimbal system. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said forming a body comprises forming a body having a polyhedron shape that defines an interior volume, with said actuator disposed within said interior volume. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said arranging a plurality of extendable legs comprises arranging a plurality of extendable legs that are moveable between extended and retracted positions, and where each of said extendable legs projects out of an exterior surface of said body when in said extended position. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said using an actuator to selectively extend each of said legs comprises using an actuator to sequentially engage said extendable legs to cause a rolling motion of said body over said surface. 10. A method for forming a robotic vehicle, comprising: forming a body; disposing an actuator within the body and at a geometric center of the body, the actuator being movable at said geometric center into a plurality of non-parallel orientations while remaining at said geometric center; arranging a plurality of extendable, non-parallel legs on said body; articulating said actuator to align the actuator with different ones of said plurality of extendable, non-parallel legs; and using the actuator to selectively extend each of said legs to cause a motion of said body over a surface. 11. A method for forming a robotic vehicle, comprising: forming a body; disposing an actuator within the body and at a geometric center of the body, the actuator being movable at said geometric center into a plurality of non-parallel orientations while remaining at said geometric center; arranging a plurality of extendable, non-parallel legs on said body, such that a longitudinal axis of each said leg bisects said geometric center of the body; articulating said actuator to align the actuator with different ones of said plurality of extendable, non-parallel legs; and using the actuator to extend selected ones of said plurality of extendable, non-parallel legs, one at a time, to cause a rolling motion of said body over a surface in a desired direction. 