A control system for a remotely controlled vehicle comprises a supervisory control system which receives supervisory speed and turn rate commands from a human operator which are provided to a servo-controlled vehicle; an obstruction detection system having multiple sensors mounted to the vehicle detect any obstructions in the path of the vehicle; and a collision avoidance control system coupled to the supervisory control system, the obstruction detection system, and to the vehicle. The collision avoidance control system disables the supervisory speed and turn rate commands when the obstruction detection system detects an obstruction. The collision avoidance control system also generates and provides obstacle avoidance speed and turn rate commands to the vehicle to direct the vehicle to avoid obstruction in the path of the vehicle, and enables the supervisory speed and turn rate commands after the obstruction is avoided so that control of the vehicle is returned to the human operator. The magnitude of the obstacle avoidance speed command is proportional to a first distance between one of the sensors detecting the obstruction and the obstruction itself when the first distance is within a first predetermined limit; and the magnitude of the turn rate command is inversely proportional to an angle defined between an operator desired vehicle heading and a relative bearing to the detected obstruction when the obstruction is within a second distance from the vehicle.
Claims We claim: 1. A control system for a remotely controlled vehicle, comprising: a servo-controlled vehicle; first means operably disposed to receive supervisory speed and heading commands from a human operator and which provides host speed and turn rate commands to said vehicle for directing said vehicle to maneuver at a speed and turn rate in accordance with said supervisory speed and heading commands, said host speed and turn rate commands defining a path; second means mounted to said vehicle for detecting an obstruction to said path, said second means including multiple sensors for detecting said obstruction; and third means operably couped to said first and second means, and to said vehicle, said third means for disabling said host speed and turn rate commands in response to said second means detecting said obstruction, for generating obstacle avoidance speed and turn rate commands which are provided to said vehicle for directing said vehicle to travel in accordance with said obstacle avoidance speed and turn rate commands to avoid said obstruction, and for enabling said host speed and turn rate commands after said obstruction is avoided so that control of said vehicle is returned to said human operator, where: the magnitude of said obstacle avoidance speed command is proportional to a first distance between one of said sensors detecting said obstruction and said obstruction when said first distance is within a first predetermined limit; and the magnitude of said turn rate command is inversely proportional to an angle defined between an operator desired vehicle heading and a relative bearing to a detected obstruction, when said detected obstruction is within a second distance from said vehicle. 2. The control system of claim 1 wherein said multiple sensors include: fourth means operably coupled to said third means for transmitting near-infrared energy and detecting some of said near-infrared energy that reflects off of said obstruction; and fifth means operably coupled to said third means for transmitting ultrasonic pulses in the direction of said obstruction and detecting some of said ultrasonic pulses that reflect off of said obstruction. 3. The control system of claim 2 wherein: said fourth means includes a plurality of near-infrared sensors arranged in a first pattern; and said fifth means includes a plurality of selectively-enabled ultrasonic transducers arranged in a second pattern. 4. The control system of claim 3 wherein said first means includes: an input device for receiving said supervisory speed and bearing commands from said human operator; and a host computer operably coupled to said input device for transforming said supervisory speed and heading commands into said host speed and turn rate commands. 5. The control system of claim 4 which further includes: a communication link between an operator station and said third means comprising: a first transceiver operably coupled to said host computer; and a second transceiver communicatively linked to said first transceiver and operably coupled to said third means. 6. The control system of claim 5 wherein: said third means includes a digital data processor. 7. The control system of claim 6 which further includes: a servo-controlled video camera rotatable about an axis and mounted to said vehicle for detecting video images in the direction of said motion of said vehicle; sixth means mounted to said vehicle and operably coupled to said digital data processor and to said video camera for selectively rotating said video camera about said axis; 8. The control system of claim 7 wherein: said sixth means is a head pan axis controller. 