The mattress assembly installation has a number of mattress padding material spools for supplying separate mattress padding materials. These materials are received and superposed in a receiving stage downstream of the spools. The mattress padding material portion is cut at a cutting station from the supply of materials. Subsequently, or at the same time, a gluing apparatus, which may be part of the cutting apparatus, deposits strips of adhesive on the superposed mattress padding materials. The materials are conveyed to a folding station where at the materials are folding above a spring frame together with an inverted mattress covering. A robot or a carriage is provided for moving, inverting and removing the spring frame from the folding station.
Claims I claim: 1. A mattress assembly installation, comprising: a plurality of mattress padding material spools for supplying separate matress padding materials in a material supply direction; a receiving stage positioned downstream of said spools for receiving the mattress padding materials from said plurality of spools such that the mattress padding materials are superposed; cutting means for cutting superposed mattress padding material portions from the supply of the mattress padding materials from said spools, said cutting means moving transverse to said material supply direction; a first gluing means for deposition regulable strips of adhesive on the superposed mattress padding materials in a longitudinal direction parallel to said material supply direction; a second gluing means for depositing regulable strips of adhesive on the superposed mattress padding materials in a lateral direction perpendicular to said material supply direction, wherein said first and second gluing means together provide strips of adhesive at four sides of the superposed mattress padding materials portions; a conveyor means for conveying said superposed mattress padding material portions; and a folding means for receiving an inverted mattress covering thereon, receiving said superposed mattress padding material portions from said conveyor means on said inverted mattress covering, and folding said superposed mattress padding material portions together with said inverted mattress covering onto a spring frame of a spring casing. 2. The mattress assembly as set forth in claim 1, and further comprising: a robot means for carrying and positioning the spring frame above said folding means, said robot means comprising a horizontally movable robot that is pivotable about a vertical axis and capable of lifting and inverting the spring frame. 3. The mattress assembly installation as set forth in claim 1, wherein: said receiving stage comprises a first table for receiving said mattress padding materials thereon; said cutting means and said second gluing means simultaneously cut to form a cutting line between the separated superposed mattress padding material portions and the supply of mattress padding materials and deposit the regulable strips of adhesive on both the separated materials and the remaining materials of the supply materials on either side of the cutting line; a second table is provided for receiving the separated superposed mattress padding materials after said cutting means and said second gluing means; said conveyor means conveys said superposed mattress padding material portions from said second table to said folding means; and said folding means has a plurality of adhesive dispensing orifices for dispensing adhesive onto the inverted mattress covering. 4. The mattress assembly as set forth in claim 3, and further comprising: a robot means for carrying and positioning the spring frame above said folding means, said robot means comprising a horizontally movable robot that is pivotable about a vertical axis and capable of lifting and inverting the spring frame. 5. The mattress assembly installation as set forth in claim 3, wherein: said folding means comprises a plurality of folding jaws for folding the inverted mattress covering together with the separated materials onto a spring frame, whereby the adhesive applied to the inverted mattress covering and the separated materials join the inverted mattress covering and the separated materials onto the spring casing. 6. The mattress assembly installation as set forth in claim 5, wherein said folding means further comprises four sides and four said folding jaws on respective said sides of said folding means. 7. The mattress assembly as set forth in claim 6, wherein two of said jaws are contiguous and displaceably mounted, whereby said folding unit is adaptable to different widths and lengths of mattresses. 8. The mattress assembly installation as set forth in claim 1, wherein: a frame supports said plurality of spools for supplying the mattress padding material at different elevations, said spools being disposed on said frame along parallel axes; wheels are mounted said frame such that said frame is displaceable; fixed guide rails support said wheels such that said frame is moveable thereon; a fluid cylinder is operably connected to said frame for movement thereof for centering the mattress padding materials; and a control means is provided for controlling said fluid cylinder for regulating the transverse displacement of said frame, said control means comprising a plurality of control cells for detecting and providing a signal in response to the position of said spools to said fluid cylinder. 9. The mattress assembly installation as set forth in claim 8, and further comprising: an accumulator receiving mattress padding materials from said spools and delivering said materials to said receiving stage, said accumulator having two upper rollers and a lower roller through which the mattress padding materials pass in a V-shape, said lower roller being vertically displaceably mounted and compensated to exert substantially no force on the mattress padding materials. 10. The mattress assembly installation as set forth in claim 8, and further comprising: means for pulling the mattress padding materials off of said spools, superposing the mattress padding materials and delivering the mattress padding materials to said conveyor means. 11. The mattress assembly installation as set forth in claim 8, wherein: said conveyor means comprising a plurality of conveyor belts conveying the mattress padding materials, stopping at a cutting position of said cutting means, and conveying after cutting of the materials to said folding means. 12. The mattress assembly installation as set forth in claim 8, wherein: said conveyor means conveys the superposed mattress materials to said folding means; said first gluing means comprising a movable carriage depositing said strips of said adhesive during movement of said conveyor means; and said second gluing means comprises a further movable carriage positioned above said carriage of said first gluing means. 13. The mattress assembly installation as set forth in claim 12, wherein: said folding means further comprises a plurality of grippers thereon for folding the superposed mattress padding materials in place. 14. The mattress assembly installation as set forth in claim 8, and further comprising: an automatic spring casing moving means, comprising a frame, a carriage linearly movable on said frame, a plurality of gripping elements on said carriage for gripping the spring casing, whereby the spring casing can be delivered to said folding means, rotated 180 degrees at said folding means, and removed from said folding means; and a plurality of peripheral jaws on said folding means for folding the superposed mattress padding materials onto the spring casing. 