An apparatus for cutting barbs into a suture having a filament supply. The apparatus also has an in-feed collet for holding one end of a filament threaded therethrough. Further the apparatus has an out-feed collet for holding a second end of a filament threaded therethrough. Additionally, the apparatus has a holder positioned between said in-feed and out-feed collets for holding a filament suspended between the in-feed and out-feed collets. The apparatus also has a cutting assembly for cutting barbs in the filament tensioned between the in-feed and out-feed collets.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of forming a barbed suture comprising the steps of: threading a filament from a filament supply through a filament tensioner and through a first and second collet; closing the first and second collets; cutting barbs in at least a first direction into the filament; rotating at least one of the collets in a first direction to twist the filament; opening the collets; advancing the filament using a filament grasping tool; closing the collets; and severing the filament having barbs cut in to form a suture. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of annealing the suture. 3. An apparatus for forming a barb on a suture comprising: at least one blade; a tensioning vise for supporting the suture; and a movable plate upon which the at least one blade and the tensioning vise are mounted, wherein the movable plate causes the vise to tension the suture, and develops a cutting motion for the at least one blade. 4. An apparatus for forming a barb on a suture comprising: at least one blade; a linkage system for causing the at least one blade to describe a substantially circular path during a cutting motion; and a drive gear system for imparting rotational force to the linkage system. 5. A barb cutting system comprising: a plurality of cylindrical cutters arranged in a planetary arrangement; and a plurality of cutting surfaces formed on the cylindrical cutters, wherein the cylindrical cutters rotate about their own axes while simultaneously rotating about an axis of a suture to form barbs thereon. 6. The barb cutting system of claim 5 wherein a plurality of cutting surfaces are spirally orientated about a cylindrical cutter. 7. The barb cutting system of claim 5 comprising breaks between adjacent segments of cutting surfaces. 8. The barb cutting system of claim 5 having two cylindrical cutters. 9. The barb cutting system of claim 5 comprising a first cylindrical cutter comprising cutting surfaces that route in a first direction, and a second cylindrical cutter comprising cutting surfaces that route in a second direction that opposes the first direction. 10. The barb cutting system of claim 9 wherein a cylindrical cutter comprises spiral cutting edges. 11. The barb cutting system of claim 5 further comprising a ring gear to apply rotational force to a cylindrical cutter. 12. The barb cutting system of claim 5 further comprising a ring gear to move a cylindrical cutter transversely to a longitudinal axis of the suture. 13. The barb cutting system of claim 5 comprising a stationary cylindrical cutter. 14. A method of forming barbs in a filament, comprising providing a filament, directing a fluid jet from a high pressure source toward the filament, and cutting barbs in the filament with the fluid jet. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the fluid comprises water. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the fluid does not comprise water. 