Systems and methods are provided that can include a storage and retrieval robot operating under program control to extract a selective number of support beads from a storage or retainment region, for dispensing to titer wells or other vessels for assays and other purposes. According to various embodiments, the storage and retrieval robot can position a capture device over any one or more storage wells containing oligonucleotide or other material support beads, and withdraw or extract those support beads into a collection tube under vacuum pressure or other force. According to various embodiments, a selected number of support beads can be extracted, using a linear motor piston to limit available space for support bead insertion. According to various embodiments, the collected support beads can be dispensed into one or more destination tubes, wells, or other containers, surfaces, vessels, receptacles or mixture containment region, for use in assays or other purposes. According to various embodiments, a calculated plurality of support beads can be extracted or mixed in selective quantities. According to various embodiments, a sample subset of the supply support beads can be taken, to calculate an amount of actual oligonucleotide contained in the support beads. According to various embodiments, an adjustment or normalization of the number of support beads dispensed can be performed to compensate for variations in oligonucleotide amount, thereby enhancing the uniformity of concentration in solution.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: at least one retainment region, each retainment region of the at least one retainment region being adapted to retain a respective supply of support beads, each support bead comprising one or more reagents supported thereby, each reagent having a respective concentration with respect to each respective support bead; at least one mixture retainment region; at least one capture device, wherein the at least one capture device comprises a vacuum device and a movable piston in a housing; and a control unit programmed to control the at least one capture device to extract a calculated plurality of support beads from one or more regions of the at least one retainment region, wherein the calculated plurality of support beads is extracted from the at least one retainment region by setting the movable piston with respect to the housing to admit the calculated plurality into the housing under vacuum force supplied by the vacuum device and to control the dispensing of the extracted calculated plurality of support beads into the at least one mixture retainment region. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one retainment region comprises a plurality of retainment regions, and each of the plurality of retainment regions contains a respective supply of support beads. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein each of the respective supplies of support beads is different that one or more of the other supplies of support beads. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein at least two different supplies of support beads comprise one or more of the same reagents. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein the plurality of retainment regions comprises an addressable array of retainment regions. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the control unit is programmed to control the at least one capture device to access a plurality of retainment regions of the addressable array. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein access to each retainment region is provided by movement of the at least one capture device. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the control unit is adapted to receive a plurality of addresses corresponding to two or more retainment regions of the addressable array, and transfer one or more pluralities of support beads from two or more of the plurality of retainment regions to the at least one mixture retainment region. 9. The system of claim 2, wherein at least one of the supplies of support beads comprises support beads comprising an oligonucleotide reagent. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the calculated plurality comprises an integral number of support beads. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the vacuum device and movable piston operate under control of the control unit. 12. A method of handling support beads comprising oligonucleotides, the method comprising: providing at least one capture device, wherein the capture device comprises a vacuum device and a movable piston in a housing; said capture device adapted to be programmably positioned adjacent to at least one retainment region, each of the at least one retainment regions being adapted to retain a respective supply of support beads, each support bead of each respective supply comprising a concentration of a reagent supported thereby; and controlling the at least one capture device to extract a calculated plurality of support beads from a respective one of the at least one supply, wherein the calculated plurality of support beads is extracted from the at least one retainment region by setting the movable piston with respect to the housing to admit the calculated plurality into the housing under vacuum force supplied by the vacuum device and to dispense the extracted calculated plurality of support beads into at least one mixture retainment region. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one retainment region comprises a machine readable identifier and the method further comprises causing a machine to read the machine readable identifier. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the controlling comprises receiving support bead content data, and the method further comprises adjusting the quantity of support beads extracted from the respective one of the at least one supply. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the received support bead content data comprises information pertaining to a concentration of oligonucleotide supported by the respective support beads. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the information pertaining to a concentration of oligonucleotide is determined by measuring oligonucleotide concentration using mass spectroscopy. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the adjusting comprises increasing or decreasing the quantity of support beads extracted to achieve a normalized amount of reagent. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising forming a solution comprising the reagent, wherein the normalized amount comprises an amount substantially equal to an amount expected to provide a nominal concentration of the reagent in the solution. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the reagent comprises an oligonucleotide. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the calculated plurality has been determined based on the concentrations of the one or more reagents supported by the support beads of the respective supply of support beads. 21. The method of claim 12, wherein the calculated plurality is determined based on the concentration. 