The present invention provides an end of arm tooling (EOAT) internal gripper device for a robot. The EOAT of the present invention provides a gripper portion which can be elastically deformed by being extended or retracted by an internal rod actuator. Extension of the actuator rod causes the gripper portion to assume a smaller dimensional shape for insertion into a workpiece cavity. Retraction of the actuator rod causes the gripper portion to increase in dimension therefore engaging and gripping the workpiece. The EOAT of the present invention is extremely useful in applications requiring large amounts of compliance, delicate handling, and/or in environments wherein an air supply is not available or desirable.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A robot EOAT for grabbing a workpiece by a cavity in said workpiece, said EOAT in combination comprising: means for connecting said EOAT with said robot; rob means having a generally flanged end opposite said robot, said rod means being extendible with respect to said connecting means; and a gripper portion having an end connecting with said connecting means and having another end connecting with said flanged end of said rod means and said other end being axially fixed with rspect to said rod means, said gripper poriton having a first dimension when said rod means is extended whereby said gripper portion can be inserted into said workpiece cavity and said gripper portion having a second dimension when said rod means is retracted whereby said gripper portion engages with said workpiece cavity to grab said workpiece. 2. An EOAT as described in claim 1 wherein said gripper portion is an elatomeric boot. 3. An EOAT as described in claim 2 wherein said boot is in the shape of a cylindrical tube. 4. A robot EOAT for grabbing a workpiece by a cavity in said workpiece, said EOAT in combination comprising: a plate for connecting said EOAT with said robot a cylinder actuator adjacent said plate having a piston rod extendible with respect to said plate, said piston rod having a flange on an end of said rod opposite said robot; a spacer surrounding said actuator and attached with said plate; and an elastomeric cylindrical boot having an end connecting with said spacer and having another end connecting with said flange of said rod and said other end being axially fixed with respect to said rod, said boot having a first dimension when said rod is extended whereby said boot is elastically deformed allowing said boot to be inserted into said workpiece cavity and said boot having a second dimension when said rod means is retracted whereby said boot engages with said workpiece cavity grabbing said workpiece. 5. An elastomeric EOAT as described in claim 4 wherein said boot in its natural state has a cross-sectional shape of a turret. 6. A method of grabbing a workpiece by a cavity of said workpiece using a robot, said method in combination comprising: connecting an actuator with an extendible rod with said robot wherein said rod has a flanged end opposite said robot; connecting a gripper portion with said robot and said rod flanged end; extending said rod whereby said gripper portion has a first dimension allowing said gripper portion to be inserted into said workpiece cavity; and retracting said rod whereby said gripper portion has a second dimension engaging with said workpiece cavity to grab said workpiece. 