The sensitive high resolution microminiature tactile sensor comprises an array of unique micromachined bossed silicon transducer cells in conjunction with requisite electrical circuitry and components, which collectively provide an ability to sense torque by detecting both normal and lateral applied loads, thereby opening a new frontier in tactile sensing. One preferred embodiment comprises a four column by four row array arrangement providing sixteen unique bossed closely spaced silicon diaphragm tactile transducer elements or sensors fabricated from a silicon body member. Collectively the close spacing between the microminiature tactile sensing elements approaches the resolution of the human hand. Electrical signal information from sensor-incorporated internal and external related circuitry components can be analyzed via computer devices to yield specific loading characteristics on the sensor surface. The upper surface of the transducer cell array is protectively covered with a thin polymer layer. The related circuitry may be fabricated by various known processes including diffused piezoresistive areas and deposited thin film conducting strips and tap-off points. These areas and related conductive circuitry for each of the microsmall sensor elements are configurable as two Wheatstone bridges which thereby help provide for the measurement of both normal and lateral load component magnitudes.
Claims We claim: 1. A very sensitive, high resolution, transducer array-type tactile sensor adaptable for use with various electro-mechanical and fluidic or pneumatic mechanisms and manipulators including robot end-effectors, for determining lateral or shear forces in conjunction with normal force measurement to aid in the determining of sensor-applied mechanical to electrical transduction forces which in turn help determine any object slip and/or object rotation in the grasp of a robot end-effector; said sensor comprising in combination: (a) a micro-thinned silicon wafer main body member 12 having top and bottom surfaces and a predetermined plurality of closely spaced microminature, tactile sensor boss elements 16 forming an array, each boss element 16 disposed centrally of and projecting upwardly above the top surface from a reduced body thickness portion constituting an annular more flexible diaphragm portion 14, said bossed tactile sensor elements 16 and their respective diaphragm portions 14 being susceptible to mechanical perturbative movement from various applied forces including triaxial forces as applied to the various tactile boss elements surfaces; (b) lower support layer means 18 upon which said main body member 12 via its bottom surface is engagingly supported, said layer means 18 being constituted by a layer of material which is thermally compatible to reduce any thermal stress gradient between said body member and support layer, said support layer having a corresponding plurality of recessed areas 19 corresponding generally in size and alignment location to that of the said diaphragms and tactile sensor boss elements 16; and (c) circuit means C1, C2 in association with said tactile sensor elements 16 to help constitute the transducer array including circuit portions C1 fabricated directly in conjunction with said main body 12 and support layer means 18, to generate electrical signals responsive to mechanical perturbation across said tactile sensor elements 16, with said electrical signals being adaptable for interpretive processing to effectively determine any object slip and/or object rotation of an object in the grasp of a robot end-effector. 2. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said circuit means C1 comprises multiple subcircuit portions applied to the bottom surface of said main body member 12, including subcircuit portions applied beneath each of the array's transducer diaphragm portions 14, said latter subcircuit portions including a plurality of piezoresistive-type resistors PZRs diffused in a predetermined X and Y axis orientation upon and relative to the silicon main body's particular crystal orientation, to thereby help configure Wheatstone bridge-type subcircuitry portions which help measure various transducer sensor element diaphragm strain resulting from loading applied to said tactile sensor. 3. The sensor of claim 2, wherein all of said sensor bosses 16 are of microminiature size having tapered frusto-conical form with substantially circular top and base portions; and wherein said piezoresistive-type subcircuit portions beneath each of said bossed diaphragmed portions include four pairs of said piezoresistors PZRs which are of substantially identical ohm value and diffused each in spaced apart relation into the silicon wafer body material 12, said four pair of PZRs including a first two spaced apart pairs PZRs 1, 2, and PZRs 3, 4 in alignment with each other, with each spaced pair at diametrically opposite sides of and beneath said tactile boss element's circular base portion, the alignment of said first two pair constituting an X-X axis; and a second two similarly aligned and spaced apart pairs PZRs 5, 6 and PZRs 7, 8 collectively disposed in alignment at substantially 90 degree offset from said first two pairs, also at the diametrically opposite sides of and beneath said tactile boss element's circular base portion, their alignment constituting a Y--Y axis intersecting with said X--X axis; said tactile sensing boss elements 16 each having a vertical Z--Z axis disposed normal to and intersecting the crossed X--X and Y--Y axes; and wherein each of said subcircuit portions further include low resistance conductive strip portions S1 and S2 respectively interconnecting each of said two pairs of PZRs along their respective X and Y axis, with said strip portions S1 and S2 being electrically insulated from each other at their intersection; and each of said piezoresistive areas PZRs being further provided with at least two separate similarly low resistance conductive strips leading to aptly spaced apart tap-off points T, and a tap-off point from each outer endmost piezoresistive element on said X and Y axis, said tap-off points facilitating electrical circuit connections with other portions C2 of said overall circuit means. 4. The sensor of claim 1, further including a flexible polymer-type protective cover layer 20 superposed upon said bossed main body member 12. 5. The sensor of claim 4, wherein said protective cover layer 20 is applied in a manner so as to preserve a space 15 above each of said diaphragm portions 14. 6. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the plurality of tactile sensor elements 16 are disposed in regular, equally spaced, uniform length rows and columns arrangement, the equal spacing between rows and columns being approximately 1500 microns. 7. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the plurality of tactile sensor elements 16 are disposed in an irregular or offset rows and column arrangement. 8. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the plurality of tactile sensor elements 16 are disposed in at least partial concentric circular form. 9. The sensor of claim 1, wherein said silicon wafer main body member initially is of a thickness of between about 300-400 microns, but micro-machined or etched down in a manner leaving the tactile elements at substantially the full initial height thickness, while reducing the main body member 12 to approximately 190 microns, and said annular diaphragm portions each to a thickness of approximately 140 microns. 10. The sensor of claim 9, wherein said bossed tactile sensor elements 16 each have a circular cross-sectional form tapering downwardly generally uniformly from an uppermost top circular diameter of between about 126-136 microns to a base diameter of between about 490-510 microns, the taper being at an angle of about 54-55 degrees, and the tapered surface having a (111) crystal surface. 11. The sensor of claim 9, wherein said annular diaphragm 14 has an outer diameter of between about 980-1020 microns at its base. 12. The sensor of claim 9, wherein said support layer 18 is formed of a generally same silcon crystal material as said main body member 12; is of a thickness of about from 150-250 microns; and said recessed areas 19 are of from approximately 20-30 microns deep. 13. The sensor of claim 12, wherein said recessed areas 19 are at least partially filled with a resilient sponge-like material. 14. The sensor of claim 12, wherein said main body member has superposed thereon a flexible polymer-type protective cover layer 20 which has a main body thickness of from about 250-350 microns in the areas between said bossed tactile elements 16, and a thickness of from about 50-100 microns above said bossed tactile elements 16. 