A coupling device includes a first support member which is connected to the arm of a robot and which supports a second support member for universal tilting and axial movement from an aligned normal position. The second support member supports robotic tooling, and a set of springs and ball members bias the support members to the normal position. An electrical control circuit is effective to stop movement of the robot arm in response to minute tilting or axial movement of the second support member in the event the tooling or article carried by the tooling is accidentally hit or overloaded.
Claims The invention having thus been described, the following is claimed: 1. A device adapted for connecting a first element to a second element, comprising a first support member, means for rigidly securing said first support member to the first element, a second support member, means for rigidly securing said second support member to the second element, means connecting said first and second support members and providing for relative universal tilting movement between said first and second support members from a normal position where said first support member is in predetermined relation to said second support member, said connecting means including a plurality of pins spaced angularly about an axis and secured to one of said support members, a corresponding plurality of ball members slidably mounted on said pins, the other said support member having a corresponding plurality of slots each receiving one of said ball members for relative movement along a linear path, and means for biasing said first and second support members toward said normal position. 2. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said biasing means comprise at least one axially movable plunger within one of said support members. 3. A device as defined in claim 1 and including means forming a positive stop for said first and second support members at said normal position. 4. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said first support member includes means forming a planar surface, and said said ball members contact said surface in said normal position. 5. A device as defined in claim 4 wherein said means forming said planar surface include a corresponding plurality of electrical conductive members, means forming an electrical circuit with said ball members electrically connected in series with said plate members, and said circuit opens by separation of at least one of said ball members from the corresponding said plate member in response to said tilting movement of said support members. 6. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said connecting means is effective to prevent relative rotation between said first and second support members while providing for said tilting movement. 7. A device as defined in claim 1 wherein said first support member defines a cavity, said second support member includes a hub portion projecting into said cavity, said slots being part-cylindrical and extending in an axial direction within said first support member outwardly from said cavity, and said angularly spaced pins are mounted on said hub portion of said second support member and project radially outwardly into said slots for receiving said ball members. 8. A device adapted for connecting a first element to a second element, comprising a first support member, means for rigidly securing said first support member to the first element, a second support member, means for rigidly securing said second support member to the second element, means connecting said first and second support members and providing for relative universal tilting and axial movement between said first and second support members from a normal position where said first support member is in predetermined relation to said second support member, said connecting means further preventing relative rotation between said first and second support members while providing for said tilting movement, means forming a positive stop at said normal position, and means for biasing said first and second support members toward said normal position. 9. A device as defined in claim 8 wherein said first and second support members comprise bodies of an electrically insulating plastics material. 10. A device as defined in claim 8 wherein said first support member defines a cavity, said second support member includes a hub portion projecting into said cavity, means defining a plurality of angularly spaced part-cylindrical slots extending in an axial direction within said first support member and opening into said cavity, a corresponding plurality of angularly spaced pins mounted on said hub portion of said second support member and projecting radially outwardly into said slots, and a ball member slidably mounted on each said pin and confined within a corresponding said slot for linear movement in response to said relative tilting movement of said support members. 11. A device as defined in claim 8 wherein said means connecting said first and second support members comprise a plurality of angularly spaced pins secured to one of said support members, a corresponding plurality of ball members slidably mounted on said pins, the other said support member having a correspond plurality of angularly spaced slots each receiving one of said ball members for linear movement, and means forming a planar surface on the other said support member for engagement by said ball members to form said positive stop at said normal position. 12. A device as defined in claim 11 and including a set of compression springs within said slots and engaging the corresponding said ball members within said slots. 13. A device as defined in claim 8 wherein said connecting means comprise a set of electrical conductive balls, means forming an electrical circuit and including said balls electrically connected in series, and said circuit opens by movement of at least one of said balls in response to said tilting movement of said support members. 14. A device adapted for connecting a first element to a second element, comprising a first support member, means for rigidly securing said first support member to the first element, a second support member, means for rigidly securing said second support member to the second element, means connecting said first and second support members and providing for relative universal tilting movement between said first and second support members from a normal position where said first support member is in predetermined relation to said second support member, means for biasing said first and second support members toward said normal position, said connecting means including a set of relative moveable electrically conductive balls, an electrical circuit having means for electrically connecting said balls in series, and said circuit opens by movement of at least one of said balls in response to said tilting movement of said support members. 15. A device as defined in claim 14 wherein said means connecting said first and second support members comprise a plurality of angularly arranged radially extending pins secured to one of said support members, a corresponding plurality of said balls slidably mounted on said pins, and the other said support member has a corresponding plurality of angularly disposed parallel slots each receiving one of said balls for relative linear movement. 16. A device as defined in claim 15 wherein the other said support member member includes a corresponding plurality of plate members forming a planar surface, and said balls contact said plate members in said normal position. 