An information storing device and an information processing device having a memory for registering a plurality of working modes at recording/reproduction and a switching circuit for selecting one of the plurality of working modes, which select the optimum working mode automatically or by an instruction of an operator according to power supply capacity of a device of higher rank to effect recording/reproduction.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An operating method for a disk drive coupled to a higher rank device, the disk drive having a disk-shaped memory medium, a motor rotatably supporting the medium, a motor driving circuit to drive the motor, a read or write head, a head driving mechanism to drive the head, a head driving circuit coupled to the head driving mechanism, and a microprocessor coupled to both the head driving circuit and the motor driving circuit, comprising: transmitting a plurality of seek modes information of the disk drive to the higher rank device; and wherein if a first seek mode is elected, then the head driving circuit supplies a first drive current to the head driving mechanism, if a second seek mode is selected, then the head driving circuit supplies a second drive current to the driving mechanism; and wherein a noise level of the disk drive when the first seek mode is selected is greater than a noise level of the disk drive when the second seek mode is selected. 2. A disk device able to receive commands from a higher rank device comprising: a magnetic disk; a spindle motor; a motor driving circuit to drive said spindle motor; a head for reading/writing signals from/to said magnetic disk; a head driving mechanism coupled to said head; and a head driving circuit coupled to said head driving mechanism, wherein after said disk device is powered, a last seek mode among a plurality of seek modes is activated in said disk device, wherein said plurality of seek modes includes a first seek mode and a second seek mode, if said first seek mode is selected, said head driving circuit supplies a first drive current to said head driving mechanism, if said second seek mode is selected, said head driving circuit supplies a second drive current to said head driving mechanism, wherein said second drive current is smaller than said first drive current, and a noise level of said disk device when said first seek mode is selected is greater than a noise level of said disk device when said second seek mode is selected. 3. The disk device according to claim 2, said last seek mode is a seek mode used before shutting off said disk device and is stored inside said disk device before said disk device is powered. 4. The disk device according to claim 3, wherein the first seek mode is a quick mode effecting short time seeking and the second seek mode is a silent mode effecting low noise seeking. 5. The disk device according to claim 2, wherein said last seek mode is set after a start command is received. 6. The disk device according to claim 5, further comprising: a RAM; and a CPU, wherein information of said last seek mode is stored on the surface of said magnetic disk. 7. The disk device according to claim 2, wherein an initialization is performed after said disk device is powered and before said last seek mode is activated. 8. The disk device according to claim 2, wherein said last seek mode is activated to be working for access to said disk device from said higher rank device. 9. A magnetic disk device comprising: a connector for receiving commands from a higher rank device, a disk-shaped memory medium; a spindle motor; a first driving circuit to drive said spindle motor; a magnetic head; a voice coil motor to drive said magnetic head; and a second driving circuit to drive said voice coil motor, wherein said magnetic disk device has a first mode and a second mode, which is selected by a command received from said higher rank device, wherein a noise level of said first mode is greater than a noise level of said second mode, wherein when said first mode is selected said second driving circuit supplies a first driving current to said voice coil motor for seek operation, wherein when said second mode is selected said second driving circuit supplies a second driving current to said voice coil motor for seek operation, wherein in response to power on of said magnetic disk device, a last seek mode among a plurality of seek modes is activated in said magnetic disk device. 10. The magnetic disk device according to claim 9, wherein said last seek mode is set after a stable state is established. 11. The magnetic disk device according to claim 9, wherein said information on said last seek mode is stored inside said magnetic disk device. 12. The magnetic disk device according to claim 9, wherein said last seek mode is a working mode used in a data transfer to said magnetic disk device from said higher rank device. 13. The magnetic disk device according to claim 12, further comprising: a RAM; and a CPU, wherein said information is stored on the surface of said disk-shaped memory medium. 14. A magnetic disk device comprising: a connector to be coupled to a higher rank device, a disk-shaped memory medium; a spindle motor; a first driving circuit to drive said spindle motor; a magnetic head; a voice coil motor to drive said magnetic head; and a second driving circuit to drive said voice coil motor, wherein said magnetic disk device has a first mode and a second mode, which is selected by a command received from said higher rank device, wherein a noise level of said first mode is greater than a noise level of said second mode, wherein when said first mode is selected said second driving circuit supplies a first driving current to said voice coil motor for seek operation, wherein when said second mode is selected said second driving circuit supplies a second driving current to said voice coil motor for seek operation, wherein said second drive current is smaller than said first drive current, wherein after said magnetic disk device is powered on, a stable state is established by using a fixed mode and then a seek mode is activated in said magnetic disk device, and wherein said seek mode is one of said first mode or said second mode, which was used before shutting off said magnetic disk device. 