An apparatus and method for coupling a fixed-aperture collimator to a variable-aperture collimator. The variable-aperture collimator may be an IRIS collimator having multiple leaves configured to open and close an aperture of the IRIS collimator within which the fixed-aperture collimator is retained.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: providing a first variable-aperture collimator comprising a plurality of leaves; coupling a fixed-aperture collimator to the first variable-aperture collimator, wherein coupling the fixed-aperture collimator comprises retaining at least a portion of an outer-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator within an inner-diameter surface of the plurality of leaves of the first variable-aperture collimator; and coupling the first variable-aperture collimator to an end of a primary collimator of a linear accelerator (LINAC) at which a radiation beam is configured to exit the primary collimator, wherein the fixed-aperture collimator and the first variable-aperture collimator form an integrated secondary collimator. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein retaining comprises: positioning at least a portion of the fixed-aperture collimator within an aperture of the first variable-aperture collimator; and closing the aperture of the first variable-aperture collimator to retain the portion of the fixed-aperture collimator within the aperture of the first variable-aperture collimator. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein positioning the fixed-aperture collimator comprises automatically positioning the fixed-aperture collimator within the aperture of the first variable-aperture collimator. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein automatically positioning the fixed-aperture collimator comprises moving the first variable-aperture collimator using a robotic arm coupled to the first variable-aperture collimator. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein positioning the fixed-aperture collimator comprise manually positioning the fixed-aperture collimator within the aperture of the first variable-aperture collimator. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: coupling a second variable-aperture collimator to the end of the first variable-aperture collimator at which the radiation beam exits the first variable-aperture collimator, wherein the fixed-aperture collimator, the first variable-aperture collimator, and the second variable-aperture collimator form the integrated secondary collimator; retaining a first section of the outer-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator within the inner-diameter surface of the first variable-aperture collimator; and retaining a second section of the outer-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator within the inner-diameter surface of the second variable-aperture collimator. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein coupling the fixed-aperture collimator comprises disposing the first and second variable-aperture collimators to prevent radiation leakage from a radiation beam received from a primary collimator that is coupled to the first variable-aperture collimator. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein retaining the first and second sections of the outer-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator comprises: positioning the fixed-aperture collimator within apertures of the first and second variable-aperture collimators; closing the aperture of the first variable-aperture collimator to retain the first section of the outer-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator within the inner-diameter surface of the first variable-aperture collimator; and closing the aperture of the second variable-aperture collimator to retain the second section of the outer-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator within the inner-diameter surface of the second variable-aperture collimator. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein positioning the fixed-aperture collimator comprise automatically positioning the fixed-aperture collimator within the aperture of the first and second variable-aperture collimators. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein automatically positioning the fixed-aperture collimator comprises moving the first and second variable-aperture collimators using a robotic arm coupled to the first variable-aperture collimator. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein positioning the fixed-aperture collimator comprise manually positioning the fixed-aperture collimator within the aperture of the first and second variable-aperture collimators. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein closing the apertures of the first and second variable-aperture collimators comprises closing the apertures of the first and second variable-aperture collimators either substantially sequentially or substantially simultaneously. 13. An apparatus, comprising: a variable-aperture collimator comprising a plurality of leaves; and a fixed-aperture collimator coupled to the variable-aperture collimator, wherein at least a portion of the outer-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator is coupled to the inner-diameter surface of the plurality of leaves of the variable-aperture collimator, wherein the variable-aperture collimator is coupled to the end of a primary collimator of a linear accelerator (LINAC) at which a radiation beam is configured to exit the primary collimator, wherein the fixed-aperture collimator and the variable-aperture collimator are an integrated secondary collimator. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the LINAC is a robot-based LINAC. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the LINAC is a gantry-based LINAC. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the variable-aperture collimator is an IRIS collimator, and wherein the plurality of leaves are configured to open and close an aperture of the IRIS collimator. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the IRIS collimator is a six-sided IRIS collimator and comprises six leaves to open and close the aperture of the IRIS collimator. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising an additional variable-aperture collimator coupled to the end of the variable-aperture collimator at which the radiation beam exits the variable-aperture collimator, wherein at least another portion of the outer-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator is coupled to the inner-diameter surface of the additional variable-aperture collimator. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the variable-aperture collimator is a first IRIS collimator having the plurality of leaves configured to open and close an aperture of the first IRIS collimator, wherein the additional variable-aperture collimator is a second IRIS collimator having another plurality of leaves configured to open and close an aperture of the second IRIS collimator, wherein the fixed-aperture collimator has a first section and a second section, wherein the first section is coupled to the first IRIS collimator and the second section is coupled to the second IRIS collimator. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the fixed-aperture collimator has a first section and a second section, wherein the width of the first section of the fixed-aperture collimator is wider than the width of the second section of the fixed-aperture collimator, and wherein the second section is closer to the end of the additional variable-aperture collimator at which the radiation beam exits the additional variable-aperture collimator than the first section. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising a first retention mechanism coupled to the additional variable-aperture collimator to retain the fixed-aperture collimator within the additional variable-aperture collimator. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the first retention mechanism is a stopper. 23. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising: a first drive mechanism coupled to the variable-aperture mechanism configured to open and close an aperture of the variable-aperture collimator; and a second drive mechanism coupled to the additional variable-aperture mechanism configured to open and close an aperture of the additional variable-aperture collimator. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the first and second drive mechanisms are programmable drive mechanisms. 25. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a first retention mechanism coupled to the variable-aperture collimator to retain the fixed-aperture collimator within the variable-aperture collimator. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the first retention mechanism is a stopper. 27. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the inner-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator has a circular shape about a longitudinal axis, and wherein the outer-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator has a hexagonal shape about the longitudinal axis. 28. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the outer-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator has at least one of a square, rectangular, pentagonal, octagonal, or hexagonal shape about a longitudinal axis. 29. An apparatus, comprising: a variable-aperture collimator; a fixed-aperture collimator coupled to the variable-aperture collimator, wherein at least a portion of the outer-diameter surface of the fixed-aperture collimator is coupled to the inner-diameter surface of the variable-aperture collimator, wherein the variable-aperture collimator is coupled to the end of a primary collimator of a linear accelerator (LINAC) at which a radiation beam is configured to exit the primary collimator, wherein the fixed-aperture collimator and the variable-aperture collimator are an integrated secondary collimator; and a drive mechanism coupled to the variable-aperture collimator to open and close an aperture of the variable-aperture collimator. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the drive mechanism is a programmable drive mechanism. 