A micromanipulator system for precisely positioning an object in an xz plane and then grossly moving the object in the y direction into a hole z is disclosed. The micromanipulator system includes a base and a platform mounted to the base having five different degrees of movement (in the x direction, y direction, z direction, about the x axis, and about the z axis). Suitable moving mechanisms are provided for reversibly moving the platform in the five degrees of movement. Four of the degrees of movement being for fine or precise positioning of the platform and the fifth degree of movement in the y direction being a coarse positioning movement. A device for holding the obejct to the platform is then provided such that after precisely positioning the platform in the xz plane, the object is coarsely moved in the y direction toward the hole. Preferably, a device is provided for detecting an opposition force to the coarse movement of the object in the y direction. In addition, measuring devices are provided for measuring movements of the platform in each of the five degrees of movement. Preferably, the moving mechanisms are linear actuators, two of which serve for axles for rotation of the platform about the x and z axes. A suitable rolling friction system is provided with the linear actuators which includes a ball in a rounded trough. The object is inserted in the hole by a suitable search pattern after a robot initially locates the micromanipulator adjacent the hole.
Claims We claim: 1. A micromanipulator system for precisely positioning an object in an xz plane and then for grossly moving the object in a y direction perpendicular to the xz plane comprising: a base, said base defining a x axis, a y axis and a z axis; a platform; a mounting means for mounting said platform to said base for five different degrees of movement, the five degrees of movement being movement in the x direction, movement in the y direction, movement in the z direction, rotation about the x axis, and rotation about the z axis; moving means for reversibly moving said platform in the five degrees of movement relative to said base, said moving means including a x position moving means for precisely positioning said platform a small distance in the x direction, a z position moving means for precisely positioning said platform a small distance in the z direction, and a y position moving means for coarsely positioning said platform a large distance in the y direction, said x position moving means and said z position moving means being linear actuators which serve as axles means about which said platform rotates about the x axis and the z axis respectively; said base including a fixed plate and said z position moving means including a z plate such that said z position moving means pushes against said fixed plate in the z direction and said x position moving means pushes against said z plate and hence against said fixed plate in the x direction; a rolling friction element means for providing a respective interface between a respective said actuator and one of a respective said fixed plate and said z plate, each said rolling friction element means including a concavity in the end of a respective said linear actuator, a ball located in said concavity, and a rounded trough in said fixed plate in which said ball is located such that movement along a respective x and z axis occurs as said ball rolls along the length of said trough, and movement about a respective x and z axis occurs as said ball rides up and down the sides of said rounded trough and concavity; and a means for holding the object, said holding means being attached to said platform and moved with said platform whereby the object held by said holding means is precisely positioned in a xz plane and subsequently coarsely moved in the y direction perpendicular to the xz plane. 2. A micromanipulator system as claimed in claim 1 and further including a force detecting means for detecting an opposition force exerted on the object which opposes the coarse movement of the object in the y direction by said y position moving means. 3. A micromanipulator system as claimed in claim 2 and further including a measuring means for measuring movements of said platform in the five degrees of movement. 4. A micromanipulator system as claimed in claim 3 wherein said force detecting means is the sensing by said measuring means of a predetermined rotation about one of said x axis and z axis. 5. A micromanipulator system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said linear actuators include pairs of opposed hydraulic pistons. 6. A micromanipulator system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said moving means includes a x rotation rotary actuator and a z rotation rotary actuator. 7. A micromanipulator system as claimed in claim 6 wherein said x rotation rotary actuator and said z rotation rotary actuator are a pair of linear actuators located on opposite sides of the respective axis, which said pairs produce torques about the respective axis which are opposite to one another. 8. A micromanipulator system as claimed in claim 1 and further including a robot means for initially positioning said base adjacent the xz plane, and a search means for repetitively moving said platform adjacent the xz plane with said x position moving means and said z position moving means in a search pattern and subsequent to each move for actuating said y position moving means to attempt a desired coarse movement of the object in the y direction at the position of the search pattern in the xz plane. 