A method for interconnecting a waveguide (102), an optoelectronic component 101, and an electronic component (103). A first surface (108) is formed from a portion of cladding region(107) and a second surface (109) is formed from a portion of core region and a portion of the cladding region. A substrate (104) having electrical tracings (212', 213') is attached to the waveguide (102) so that an electronic component receiving area (111') and an optoelectronic component area (112') are attached to the first and second surface (108, 109) of the waveguide (102) respectively. An electronic component (103) and an optoelectronic component (101) are mounted to the electronic component receiving area (111') and the optoelectronic receiving area (112') respectively.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for manufacturing an optoelectronic mount that interconnects a waveguide, an optoelectronic component, and an electronic component comprising, the steps of: providing a waveguide having a plurality of core regions that are surrounded by cladding regions, wherein a portion of the cladding regions forms a first surface and a portion of the plurality of core regions and the cladding regions forms a second surface; providing an insulative flexible substrate, where the substrate has an electronic component receiving area and an optoelectronic receiving area thereon, and where the substrate additionally has a plurality of electrically conductive tracings thereon extending at least from the electronic component receiving area to the optoelectronic receiving area; affixing the insulative flexible substrate having the electronic component receiving area to the first surface and further affixing the flexible substrate having the optoelectronic receiving area to the second surface of the waveguide; and mounting an electronic component to the electronic component receiving area and mounting an optoelectronic component to the optoelectronic receiving area, thereby interconnecting the electronic component, the optoelectronic component, and the waveguide so as to make an optical mount. 2. A method for manufacturing an optoelectronic mount as claimed in claim 1 further including the step of affixing the optical mount to an interconnect board. 3. A method for manufacturing an optoelectronic mount as claimed in claim 2 further including the step of electrically coupling the optical mount to the interconnect board. 4. A method for manufacturing an optoelectronic mount as claimed in claim 1, prior to the step of affixing the insulative flexible substrate, further including the step of aligning the insulative flexible substrate to the waveguide by use of alignment fiducials, thereby accurately placing the insulative flexible substrate to the waveguide. 5. A method for manufacturing an optoelectronic mount as claimed in claim 1 wherein the providing of the waveguide is accomplished by providing a molded waveguide. 6. A method for manufacturing an optoelectronic mount as claimed in claim 1 wherein the affixing of the insulative flexible substrate is achieved by affixing the flexible insulative substrate to the first surface with an adhesive that is ultraviolet light curable. 7. A method for manufacturing an optoelectronic mount as claimed in claim 1 wherein the mounting of the optoelectronic component is achieved with an array of optoelectronic components. 8. A method for interconnecting an optical waveguide to an optoelectronic device comprising, the steps of: providing an optical waveguide having a plurality of core regions and having a cladding region that surrounds the plurality of core regions, where a portion of the cladding region forms a first surface and an end of the plurality of core regions and second portion of the cladding region forms a second surface; providing an insulative flexible substrate, where the substrate has an electronic component receiving area and an optoelectronic receiving area thereon, and where the substrate additionally has a plurality of electrically conductive tracings thereon extending at least from the electronic component receiving area to the optoelectronic receiving area; aligning the insulative flexible substrate to the first surface and second surface in an aligned position; attaching the insulative flexible substrate to the first surface and to the second surface of the waveguide in the aligned position; providing an optoelectronic device with a working portion; aligning the optoelectronic device to a portion of the plurality of core regions of the waveguide, thereby centering the working portion of the optoelectronic device to a core region of the waveguide; and attaching the optoelectronic device electrically to the electrically conductive tracings of the flexible substrate, thereby creating an interconnection between the optical waveguide and the optoelectronic device. 9. A method for interconnecting an optical waveguide to an optoelectronic device as claimed in claim further comprising the steps of: providing an electronic component; and mounting the electronic component to the electronic component receiving area. 10. A method for interconnecting an optical waveguide to an optoelectronic device as claimed in claim 8 wherein the aligning of the insulative flexible substrate is accomplished by use of alignment fiducials. 11. A method for interconnecting an optical waveguide to an optoelectronic device as claimed in claim 10 wherein the alignment fiducials are tabs. 12. A method for interconnecting an optical waveguide to an optoelectronic device as claimed in claim 11 wherein the alignment fiducials are optical fiducials. 13. A method for interconnecting an optical waveguide to an optoelectronic device as claimed in claim 8 wherein the mounting of the optoelectronic component is achieved with an array of optoelectronic components. 14. An optoelectronic mount that interconnects a waveguide, an optoelectronic component, and an electronic component comprising: a waveguide having a plurality of core regions that are surrounded by cladding regions, wherein a portion of the cladding regions forms a first surface and a portion of the plurality of core regions and the cladding regions forms a second surface; an insulative flexible substrate, where the substrate has an electronic component receiving area and an optoelectronic receiving area thereon, and where the substrate additionally has a plurality of electrically conductive tracings thereon extending at least from the electronic component receiving area to the optoelectronic receiving area; means for attaching the insulative flexible substrate to the waveguide so that the electronic component receiving area attaches to the first surface and the optoelectronic receiving area attaches to the second surface; and an electronic component having electrical contacts mounted to the electronic component receiving area with the electrical contacts connected to the electrically conductive tracings and an optoelectronic device having electrical contacts mounted to the optoelectronic receiving area with the electronic contacts connected to the electrically conductive tracings, thus interconnecting the electronic component, the optoelectronic component and the waveguide. 15. An optoelectronic mount that interconnects a waveguide, an optoelectronic component, and an electronic component as claimed in claim 14 wherein the insulative flexible substrate is optically transparent. 16. An optoelectronic mount that interconnects a waveguide, an optoelectronic component, and an electronic component as claimed in claim 14 wherein the optoelectronic device mounted to the optoelectronic receiving area is an optoelectronic array. 17. An optical module comprising: an optical mount including a waveguide, a flexible substrate affixed to the waveguide, and a optoelectronic component affixed to the flexible substrate, wherein the waveguide includes a plurality of core regions that are surrounded by cladding regions and that a portion of the cladding regions forms a first surface and a portion of the plurality of core regions and the cladding regions forms a second surface, wherein the flexible substrate includes a plurality of bonding pads defining a first area and a plurality of bonding pads defining a second area thereon, and where the substrate additionally has a plurality of electrically conductive tracings thereon extending at least from the first area to the second area thereon and where the substrate is affixed to the waveguide so that the first area is affixed to the first surface and the second area is affixed to the second surface, and wherein the optoelectronic component is affixed to the second area of the substrate; an interconnect board having at least one lead and affixed to the optical mount and where the optical mount and the interconnect board are electrically connected to at least one conductive tracing on the substrate; and an over molding structure encapsulating the optical mount and interconnect board, thereby fabricating an optical module. 