A low cost, programmable industrial robot is provided which incorporates a simplified construction with relatively sophisticated movement capability. Preferably, the robot is pneumatically operated. The robot construction includes a series of simplified structures for both calibrating ease and providing relatively versatile movement in view of the overall product cost. The device provides four adjustable axes of movement and multiple axes mounting for an end effector. In the preferred embodiment, a rotary actuator provides rotational movement for the robot. Rotary movement is adjustable and a simplified structure is included for providing repeatable intermediate stop positions for the work arm of the device. An improved rotary manifold for a rotary actuator provides a conduit for pneumatically powering the remaining robot movement functions. Those functions include vertical reciprocal movement, horizontal reciprocal movement and rotary movement of a gripper device or some other end effector. Each of the movement axes may be adjusted and the mounting of the gripper device is arranged to provide quick, easy adjustment of the gripper. Other end effector devices can be mounted to the horizontal arm in a plurality of positions.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. In a robot including a base plate having a first surface and a second raised surface, the raised surface defining a platform, a rotary drive device mounted to said platform, the rotary drive device having a shaft extending downwardly from said platform, the improvement comprising stop system means for defining first and second end of travel positions for said robot, at least one intermediate stop movably positioned with respect to said platform, and means for permitting said robot to reach said intermediate stop position regardless of the direction of approach of said robot toward said intermediate stop position, said last mentioned means including a stop having a material thickness, said last mentioned means further providing compensation for the material thickness of said stop so that said robot comes to a precise intermediate stop position repeatedly regardless of the direction of approach toward said intermediate stop position. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein said rotary drive means is mounted to the platform of said base plate, said stop system means including an intermediate stop actuator mounted to said platform, said platform having at least one opening formed in it, said actuator having a shaft positioned to extend through the opening in said platform, and a support block mounted to the base plate of said support, said support block having an opening formed in it sized to receive the shaft of said actuator. 3. The robot of claim 2 wherein said rotary drive means has a shaft extending downwardly from said platform, the means for permitting said robot to reach said intermediate stop position further including stop means mounted to said shaft, said stop means including a mounting device attached to the shaft of said drive means and rotatable therewith, said mounting device having at least first and second cushioning means attached to it, said means for defining first and second end of travel positions for said robot being selectively positionable along said platform and being located so as to engage operatively alternate ones of said cushioning means during reversible rotational directional movement of said robot. 4. The robot of claim 3 wherein said stop means is further characterized by a stop member rotatably mounted with respect to said mounting device, said stop member having at least one surface positioned to engage said cushioning means, and a stop projection positioned to engage selectively said intermediate stop and said first and said second end of travel position defining means in a manner so as to define precise stop positions for said robot regardless of the direction of approach to said positions. 5. The robot of claim 4 further including an air manifold assembly connected at least fluidly with a source of fluid and being operatively connected to said rotary drive device, said manifold assembly comprising a slide connector plate having an arcuate opening in it, an air manifold mounted to said plate, said air manifold including a cylindrical core, said core having a plurality of lands and grooves formed its outer surface, respective ones of said lands and grooves being operatively connected to a plurality of axial passages communicating with the arcuate opening in said slide connector plate and a stationary sleeve sized to receive said core, said sleeve having a material thichkness, a plurality of radial openings formed in said material thickness, said radial openings being aligned to communicate with alternate ones of said grooves in said core. 6. A robot, comprising: a support including a base plate having a first surface, and a second surface raised with respect to said first surface to define a platform; a rotary drive device mounted to said platform, said device having a shaft extending downwardly from said platform and rotatable with respect to said platform; stop system means mounted to said shaft and rotatable therewith, said stop system means including a stop mounting block attached to said shaft, first and second cushioning means mounted to said mounting block, and a stop member rotatably attached to said mounting block, said stop member having a material thickness; and at least three stops mounted to said support and positioned to engage stop member selectively, one of said stops defining an intermediate stop position for said robot, the stop defining the intermediate stop position having a material thickness, said stop member engaging said stop at said intermediate position so as to define a selectively repeatable intermediate stop position for said robot regardless of the direction of approach of said stop member to said stop by compensating for the material thickness of said stop member and said intermediate stop. 7. A robot, comprising: a support; a rotary drive device mounted to said support, said drive device including a shaft extending outwardly from said support, said shaft being rotatable with respect thereto; stop system means mounted to said shaft and rotatable therewith, said stop system means including a stop mounting block attached to said shaft, said stop mounting block including first and second cushioning means attached to said block, a stop member mounted to said stop mounting block and being rotatable with respect thereto, said stop member having at least a first surface operatively engageable with said first and said second cushioning means, and a second stop engaging surface for engaging mechanical stop delimiting positions for said robot; a plurality of stops mounted to said platform and selectively positionable to engage said stop member to define a plurality of positions for said robot, said stops including at least one intermediate stop selectively engageable with the second stop engaging surface of said stop member so as to delimit a repeatable intermediate stop position regardless of the direction of approach of said stop means with said stop. 8. A robot, comprising: a support; a rotary drive device mounted to said support, said drive device including a shaft extending from said support and being rotatable with respect thereto; stop system means mounted to said shaft, said stop system means including a stop mounting block attached to said shaft, said stop mounting block including first and second cushioning means associated with said block, a stop member mounted to said stop mounting block and being rotatable with respect to said stop mounting block, said stop member having a first surface operatively engageable with respective ones of said first and said second cushioning means, a second a stop engaging device for engaging mechanical stops delimiting positions for said robot, and adjustment associated with said stop mounting block so as to permit said stop engaging device to reach a predetermined position with respect to a physical stop regardless of the direction of approach to said physical stop; and a least one physical stop mounted to said platform and engageable with said stop engaging device. 9. The robot of claim 8 in which said adjustment means comprises a member threadably adjustable with respect to said stop mounting block. 10. The robot of claim 9 wherein said threadably adjustable member comprises said cushioning means. 