An end effector, which is adapted to be disposed on a movable industrial manipulator arm, is capable of placing a holed object having an opening therethrough onto a stud member. The end effector includes a tool adapted to centrally releasably support the holed object and a support mount slidingly connected to the tool for mounting the tool to the industrial manipulator arm. A first sensing system is utilized for sensing when the holed object has been aligned with, and is disposed about, the stud member, and a second sensing system is used for sensing when the holed object is misaligned with the stud member. A third sensing system is provided for determining the amount of misalignment between the holed object and the stud member in one of two planar directions, and a fourth sensing system is included for determining the amount of misalignment between the holed object and the stud member in the other of the two planar directions.
Claims I claim as my invention: 1. An end effector adapted to be disposed on a movable industrial manipulator arm capable of placing a holed object having an opening therethrough on a stud member comprising: a tool adapted to centrally releasably support said holed object; mounting means slidingly connected to said tool for mounting said tool to said industrial manipulator arm; first sensing means for sensing when said holed object has been aligned with, and is disposed about, said stud member; second sensing means for sensing when said holed object is misaligned with said stud member; third sensing means for determining the amount of misalignment between said holed object and said stud member in one of two planar directions; and fourth sensing means for determining the amount of misalignment between said holed object and said stud member in the other of the two planar directions. 2. The end effector according to claim 1 wherein said first sensing means comprises; a movable center pin disposed within said tool and extending through the opening in said holed object; and a through-beam photo switch disposed in the path of movement of said center pin, when said holed object is aligned with and disposed about said stud member, said stud member contacting said center pin and causing movement of said center pin so as to block the beam of said photo switch. 3. The end effector according to claim 2 wherein said photo switch, upon blocking of its beam, causes said tool to release said holed object. 4. The end effector according to claim 1 wherein said tool is a vacuum tool which utilizes a vacuum to support said holed object, said vacuum tool releasing its vacuum to release said holed object whenever said first sensing means indicates said holed object is alilgned with, and disposed about, said stud member. 5. The end effector according to claim 1 wherein said second sensing means comprises a switch having a first contact secured to and movable with said tool and a second contact secured to said mounting means, misalignment of said stud member and said holed object causing said switch first and second contacts to separate. 6. The end effector according to claim 5 wherein misalignment of said stud member and said holed object causes said stud member to move said tool relative to said mounting means to cause the separation of said switch first and second contacts. 7. The end effector according to claim 1 wherein said third sensing means comprises a first locating member secured to said mounting means and physically and electrically contacting said tool, said first locating member being movable in a first planar direction. 8. The end effector according to claim 7 wherein said third sensing means further comprises first circuit means for sensing the contacting engagement of said first locating member and said tool and for indicating the separation of said first locating member from said tool. 9. The end effector according to claim 8 wherein said stud member, upon misalignment with said holed object, contacts said first locating member and causes said first locating member to move in said first planar direction and separate from said tool, said first circuit means sensing the separation of said first locating member from said tool and generating a first signal indicative of the amount of misalignment of said stud member and said holed object in said first planar direction. 10. The end effector according to claim 1 wherein said fourth sensing means comprises a second locating member secured to said mounting means and physically and electrically contacting said tool, said second locating member being movable in a second planar direction. 11. The end effector according to claim 10 wherein said fourth sensing means further comprises second circuit means for sensing the contacting engagement of said second locating member and said tool and for indicating the separation of said second locating member from said tool. 12. The end effector according to claim 11 wherein said stud member, upon misalignment with said holed object, contacts said second locating member and causes said second locating member to move in said second planar direction and separate from said tool, said second circuit means sensing the separation of said second locating member from said tool and generating a second signal indicative of the amount of misalignment of said stud member and said holed object in said second planar direction. 13. An automated placement system for placing a holed object having an opening therethrough onto a stud member comprising: a movable manipulator arm; a controller connected to, and controlling movement of, said manipulator arm; a tool adapted to centrally releasably support said holed object; mounting means connected to said tool for mounting said tool to said manipulator arm; alignment sensing means for sensing the extent of alignment between said holed object and said stud member; and location determining means for determing the spatial location of said stud member with respect to said holed object, said location determining means having first and second locating members secured to said mounting means and physically and electrically contacting said tool at a ninety degree angle to each other, said first locating member being movable in a first planar direction and said second locating member being movable in a second planar direction at a right angle to said first planar direction. 14. The placement system according to claim 13 wherein said tool is a vacuum tool which utilizes a vacuum to support said holed object, said vacuum tool releasing its vacuum to release said holed object whenever said alignment sensing means indicates said holes object is aligned with, and disposed about, said stud member. 15. The placement system according to claim 13 wherein said alignment sensing means comprises: a movable center pin disposed within said tool and extending through the opening in said holed object; and a through-beam photo switch disposed in the path of movement of said center pin, when said holed object is aligned with and disposed about said stud member, said stud member contacting said center pin and causing movement of said center pin so as to block the beam of said photo switch, said photo switch, upon blocking of its beam, causing said tool to release said holed object. 16. The placement system according to claim 15 wherein said alignment sensing means further comprises a switch having a first contact secured to and movable with said tool and a second contact secured to said mounting means, misalignment of said stud member and said holed object causing said stud member to move said tool relative to said mounting means to cause the separation of said switch first and second contacts. 17. The placement system according to calim 13 wherein said location determining means further comprises; first circuit means for sensing the contacting engagement of said first locating member and said tool and for indicating the separation of said first locating member from said tool; and second circuit means for sensing the contacting engagement of said second locating member and said tool and for indicating the separation of said second locating member from said tool. 18. The placement system according to claim 17 wherein said stud member, upon misalignment with said holed object, contacts said first locating member and causes said first locating member to move in said first planar direction and separate from said tool, said frist circuit means sensing the separation of said first location member from said tool and transmitting a first signal to said controller indicative of the amount of misalignment of said stud member and said holed object in said first planar direction; said stud member, upon misalignment with said holed object, contacts said second locating member and causes said second locating member to move in said second planar direction and separate from said tool, said second circuit means sensing the separation of said second locating member from said tool and transmitting a second signal to said controller indicative of the amount of misalignment of said stud member and said holed object in said second planar direction. 19. The placement system according to claim 18 wherein said controller, upon receipt of said first and second signals, causes the movement of said manipulator arm to align said holed object and said stud member. 