An integrated optical sensor for arc welding having multifunction feedback control. The sensor, comprising generally a CCD camera and diode laser, is positioned behind the arc torch for measuring weld pool position and width, standoff distance, and post-weld centerline cooling rate. Computer process information from this sensor is passed to a controlling computer for use in feedback control loops to aid in the control of the welding process. Weld pool position and width are used in a feedback loop, by the weld controller, to track the weld pool relative to the weld joint. Sensor standoff distance is used in a feedback loop to control the contact tip to base metal distance during the welding process. Cooling rate information is used to determine the final metallurgical state of the weld bead and heat affected zone, thereby controlling post-weld mechanical properties.
Claims The embodiments of this invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A method for electronic data acquisition and multifunction controlling of a welding operation, comprising the steps of: (a) positioning a laser and electronic imaging device in close proximity behind the path of a welding torch so that the torch shields the imaging device from light directly emitted from the welding arc site; (b) directing a laser stripe of a known wavelength from the laser to a position traversing a weld bead site; (c) filtering light reflected from the weld site by a band pass filter of approximately the same wavelength as the laser stripe; (d) acquiring images of the weld bead site by the electronic imaging device; (e) processing and extracting from the acquired image the location of: the molten weld pool edges, the welding torch gas cup edge, and the laser stripe; (f) analyzing the extracted information and calculating data for controlling the welding process; (g) controlling the welding process based upon the calculated data. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of determining the solidified weld bead profile and centerline cooling rate from the measured information. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the solidified weld bead profile information is used as a basis to adjust welding process parameters to control the torch stand-off distance and adherence to weld bead fill design. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the centerline cooling rate information is used to determine and control thermal input to the weld site. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the information extracted from the acquired images is enhanced by locating the position in the acquired image where a sharp gradient in image intensity occurs. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the enhanced images are further intensified by using a thresholding technique which elevates all pixel intensities above an established threshold intensity level to the maximum intensity level and reduces all intensities below a threshold level to the minimum intensity level in order to emphasize the intensity of the image. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein controlling the acquisition of information of step (d) and analysis of the information of step (f) is performed by a computer. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the laser stripe is a directed to the weld site at an angle between 50.degree. and 80.degree.. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the laser wavelength and band pass filter are approximately 850 nanometers. 10. A system for data acquisition and control of a welding operation, comprising: a. an electronic image sensor positioned in close proximity behind the path of a welding torch on a work piece so that the torch shields the imaging device from light directly emitted from the welding arc site; b. means for creating a laser stripe transverse to a weld bead path, said laser stripe being a known wavelength; c. lens means attached to the electronic image sensor for focusing the image; d. a band pass optical filter to limit the frequency of light reflected from the weld bead being imaged, the band pass frequency corresponding to the wavelength of the laser stripe; e. computer means for acquiring and processing data from the image and controlling the welding process. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the means for creating the laser stripe is a continuous wave diode laser. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the diode laser generates a beam having a wavelength of approximately 850 nanometers. 13. The system of claim 10 further comprising means for cooling the laser to maintain a constant laser temperature and output beam wavelength. 14. The system of claim 10 wherein the imaging sensor is a charged coupled device camera. 15. The system of claim 14 further comprising a camera control unit to regulate the gain, pedestal and gamma levels of the charged coupled device camera. 16. The system of claim 10 wherein the computer means comprises a disk emulator, analog output card, watchdog timer/serial interface card, digitizing frame grabber and a microprocessor card. 17. The system of claim 10 wherein the lens means and adjustment is controlled by a computer. 18. The system of claim 10 further comprising an extension tube positioned between the image sensor and lens, said extension tube permitting the acquired image to be focused at an appropriate standoff distance from a work piece. 19. The system of claim 10 wherein the image sensor is positioned at an angle of between 5.degree. and 15.degree. from the welding torch axis. 20. The system of claim 10 further comprising means for directing the laser stripe to strike the work piece at an angle of between 50.degree. and 80.degree.. 21. The system of claim 19 wherein the means for directing the laser stripe is comprised of two mirrors located between the laser and the work piece. 