A real time steering capability is provided to permit robot motion to be modified continuously in three dimensions as the robot is moving along a taught path. An arc welding robot or other taught path robot has a sensor located on the robot arm to sense the position of a desired path. The tracking control provides real time steering commands to the standard robot taught path and are calculated based on maintaining a constant, preprogrammed velocity along the desired path and coordination with the taught path. Offsets to the robot taught path are computed in a manner that allows the robot to smoothly follow the actual path as measured by the look ahead path sensor. The offsets are determined as separate x, y, z and twist integrations for the end effector and represent the total deviations from the robot taught path.
Claims The Invention claimed is: 1. A method of generating real time steering commands presented to the controller of a robot which tracks along a desired path on a workpiece in coordination with a taught path and at the programmed taught path velocity using information from a look ahead path sensor, comprising the steps of: deriving data from said sensor yielding the location of the desired path at critical points in front of a robot end effector; acquiring the present end effector position from said robot; computing a target path vector from said present end effector position to a selected critical point on the desired path; determining a taught path vector from taught point information obtained from said controller; computing a robot programmed velocity modifier from the angle between said target path and taught path vectors which is sent to said controller to calculate a modified taught path velocity; computing correction velocities perpendicular to said modified taught path velocity in order to follow the desired path at the programmed velocity; determining an angular correction to keep the desired path within the field of view of said sensor; and repeating the foregoing steps at predefined control cycles and sending said correction velocities and angular correction to offset integrators to generate, in real time, offsets to the taught robot path that are transmitted to said controller. 2. The method of claim 1 further including the step of storing said critical points and retrieving the same after a delay such that the retrieved path location is slightly in front of the present end effector position. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said vectors and correction velocities are three dimensional and said robot tracks a three dimensional path in real time. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said path sensor is a two dimensional vision sensor. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said robot programmed velocity modifier is the cosine of the angle between said target path and taught path vectors. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the correction velocity magnitude is equal to the programmed velocity times the sine of said angle. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said angular correction is a twist velocity and the tip of said end effector is on the twist axis so that the tip position does not change. 8. The method of generating real time steering commands presented to the controller of a robot to track along a weld joint path in coordination with a taught path and at the programmed taught path velocity, said robot having a welding torch end effector and a look ahead path vision sensor, comprising the steps of: analyzing vision sensor images and extracting path location data for the desired path ahead of said end effector; storing said data and, after a delay, retrieving critical points on said desired path slightly in front of the present position of said end effector; inputting taught point information and said present end effector position from said robot, and said path location data, into a tracking control and repetitively computing the following: a target path vector from said present end effector position to a given critical point; a taught path vector from said taught point information; a programmed velocity modifier equal to the cosine of the angle between said target path and taught path vectors; and correction velocities perpendicular to said taught path in order to follow the desired path at the programmed velocity; and transmitting said programmed velocity modifier to said robot controller to determine a modified taught path velocity, and said correction velocities to offset integrators to produce, in real time, offsets to the taught path which are transmitted to said controller in order to steer said welding torch to follow the weld joint. 9. The method of claim 8 further including repetitively calculating an angular velocity correction from undelayed path location data to keep said sensor images approximately centered in the sensor field of view, and sending said angular velocity correction to another offset integrator to generate in real time a twist offset which is presented to said controller. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said sensor is a two dimensional television-type camera. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein said target path and taught path vectors and correction velocities are three dimensional and the latter comprises x, y, and z velocities in robot coordinates. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said correction velocities are calculated by multiplying the programmed velocity by the difference between a normalized target path vector and a normalized taught path vector multiplied by said programmed velocity modifier. 13. The method of claim 8 further including the step of transforming said path location data to a robot coordinate system before storing. 14. In a robot having a teach pendant and robot controller which moves an end effector in linear steps between taught points to follow a taught path at a programmed velocity, the improvement of means to modify the taught motion of the robot to track along a desired three dimensional path in coordination with the taught path and at the programmed velocity which comprises: a look ahead path sensor on said robot to provide images of a workpiece; a signal processor to analyze said images and generate path location data for known distances in front of said end effector; a tracking control to which is input said path location data, and taught point and present end effector position information from said robot; said tracking control having means to compute a robot programmed velocity modifier to correct the current robot taught path based on the difference between the taught path and a target path determined from the present end effector position and a selected path location, correction velocities which are perpendicular to the taught path in order to follow the desired path at the programmed velocity, and at least one angular velocity to keep the desired path within the field of view of said sensor; and offset integrators to integrate said correction and angular velocities and generate, in real time, position offsets that are transmitted to said robot controller. 15. The improvement defined in claim 14 wherein said look ahead path sensor is comprised of structured light projection optics and imaging optics, a two dimensional television-type camera, and fiber optic cables to transmit light from a source and images to said camera. 16. The improvement defined in claim 15 wherein said robot has a rotatable wrist on which said sensor optics and end effector are mounted such that the tip of said end effector is on the rotation axis and the tip position does not change. 17. The improvement defined in claim 16 wherein said end effector is an arc welding torch. 18. The improvement defined in claim 14 wherein said signal processor is comprised of means to delay said path location data and retrieve the same so that said selected location toward which said robot is steered is slightly in front of said end effector. 19. The improvement defined in claim 18 wherein said signal processor has means to extract a series of weld joint critical points from said images which are said path location data. 20. The improvement defined in claim 14 wherein said robot controller has an interpolation cycle and said tracking control computes said modifier and correction velocities every one or two interpolation cycles and transmits the same to said robot controller. 