A printing system is provided having a fluid delivery member, a fluid ejection nozzle integrated circuit, and a fluid distribution member incorporating a laminated stack of layers for distributing fluid from the delivery member to the nozzles of the integrated circuit via distribution apertures. The distribution apertures of each successive layer of the stack from the delivery member to the nozzles having a successively smaller diameter.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printing system comprising: a fluid delivery member; a fluid ejection nozzle integrated circuit; and a fluid distribution member incorporating a laminated stack of layers for distributing fluid from the delivery member to the nozzles of the integrated circuit via distribution apertures, the distribution apertures of each successive layer of the stack from the delivery member to the nozzles having a successively smaller diameter, wherein the laminated stack comprises an upper layer upon which the integrated circuit is mounted, a middle layer, and a lower layer which is attached to the delivery member, the lower layer includes first distribution apertures arranged to align with respective ones of apertures in the delivery member and first distribution channels associated with respective ones of the first distribution apertures, the first distribution apertures having substantially the same diameter as the delivery member apertures, the middle layer includes second distribution apertures arranged to align with the first distribution channels of the lower layer, the second distribution apertures having a smaller diameter than the first distribution apertures, and the upper layer includes second distribution channels arranged to communicate with the second distribution apertures of the middle layer and third distribution apertures associated with the second distribution channels, the third distribution apertures having a smaller diameter than the second distribution apertures. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein the integrated circuit, the delivery member and the distribution member are formed as a unitary arrangement with electrical connectors for connecting electrical signals to the integrated circuit. 3. A system according to claim 1, wherein the integrated circuit includes nozzle supply apertures arranged to align with the third distribution apertures of the upper layer of the laminated stack and to supply ink to respective ones of the nozzles, the nozzle supply apertures having substantially the same diameter as the third distribution apertures. 4. A system according to claim 3, wherein the delivery member apertures have a diameter of the order of millimeters and the nozzle supply apertures have a diameter of the order of micrometers. 