A susceptor carrying semiconductor wafers for processing is suspended from a compliant attachment at its upper end and is lowered into a reaction chamber for processing. At the completion of processing, the susceptor is withdrawn vertically to permit a robot to unload the processed wafers and load unprocessed wafers. In order to fix the position of the susceptor during the loading operations, a support carriage is moved into position to engage the lower end of the susceptor. Noxious and corrosive chloride vapors are simultaneously withdrawn from the reaction chamber by a vacuum line attached to the support carriage.
Claims We claim: 1. In a semiconductor-processing apparatus of the type employing a reaction chamber for confining a reactive gaseous atmosphere in contact with a substrate, the combination comprising: a susceptor for supporting said substrate; susceptor mounting means for supporting said susceptor within said apparatus; a reaction chamber having a closable opening through which said susceptor can be inserted and removed from said chamber; chamber loading means for causing relative motion between said chamber and susceptor along a chamber loading axis between a closed position in which said susceptor is confined within said chamber during substrate processing, and an open position in which said susceptor is withdrawn from said chamber through said chamber opening to permit removal of a processed substrate and loading of an unprocessed substrate; and a susceptor stabilization means, independent of the susceptor mounting means, comprising chamber exhaust means for producing a vacuum in a region adjacent said chamber opening for withdrawing noxious process-byproduct vapors from said chamber when said closable opening is open. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said susceptor mounting means suspends said susceptor within said apparatus at an upper support point on said susceptor, and wherein: said susceptor stabilization means is mounted on said apparatus and is selectively operable to: (1) move into supporting engagement with said susceptor at a point thereon removed from said upper support point for fixing the position of said susceptor during the loading and removal of substrates, and (2) move out of supporting engagement with said susceptor. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said susceptor stabilization means comprises: a carriage selectively movable along a path of motion generally transverse to said chamber loading axis, said path of motion extending from a position adjacent said chamber opening to a position removed from said chamber opening; a vacuum duct coupled to said carriage for movement therewith along said path of motion, said vacuum duct having an opening adjacent a portion of said carriage facing said chamber loading axis, and extending from said duct opening to a location remote from said chamber axis for connection to a source of vacuum. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein: said susceptor stabilization means is mounted on said apparatus and is selectively operable to: (1) move into supporting engagement with said susceptor for fixing the position of said susceptor during the loading and removal of substrates, and (2) move out of supporting engagement with said susceptor. 