Disclosed are improvements in the surface inspection method and apparatus invention of our copending application "Panel Surface Flaw Inspection", Ser. No. 579,971, U.S. Pat. No. 4,629,319, which has now come to be described as "DiffractoSight". Particularly disclosed are semi and full automatic techniques for quantifying and locating localized surface distortions. Applications for determination of scratches, paint finish defects and other surface problems are also described. The primary area of application is to cosmetic defects on automobile bodies, appliances, and furniture, and the dies, molds and models and other surfaces used in their manufacture.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inspecting a surface comprising the steps of: illuminating an extensive area of the surface with light by directing light onto the surface area in such a manner that the light is reflected therefrom; providing a retroreflective member comprising a large number of small retroreflective elements in a position such that light reflected from the extensive illuminated surface area impinges thereon, is then returned to the illuminated surface area, and is re-reflected therefrom; imaging light re-reflected from the extensive illuminated surface area; scanning the imaged light to determine intensity variations in that imaged light, and determining from the intensity variations in the imaged light a characteristic of said surface. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the light used in illuminating of said area of the surface is directed along an axis which is angularly displaced from the axis of said imaging so as to form bright or dark regions characteristics of form defects on said surface. 3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the light used in illuminating said area is directed along an axis which is closer to said surface than the imaging axis. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein illuminating said area is carried out using a light source and said surface and said retroreflective member are substantially greater in dimension than said light source. 5. A method according to claim 4 wherein illuminating said area is carried out using a said light source which is substantially a point source. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein a rating number for said intensity variation is further generated proportional to the degree of dark (bright) signal below (above) a threshold value. 7. A method according to claim 6 wherein said threshold value is determined relative to an average value of image intensity in the region of said defect. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein said scanning step is carried out using a TV camera. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein said inspection includes substantially determining any deviation in the local geometric form of said surface. 10. A method according to claim 1 wherein scratches, pits, listers, runs and other blemishes and distortions of small dimension in said surface are inspected. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein illuminating said area is carried out using projected light in the form of a pattern of one or more lines, and the determining step includes determining the local deviation in said lines caused by a distortion in said surface. 12. A method according to claim 11 when the deviation in at least one edge of at least one of said lines is determined. 13. A method according to claim 1 wherein the imaging step provides that said surface is substantially in focus in said image. 14. A method according to claim 11 wherein illuminating said area is carried out using a said pattern which is a grille or grid of parallel lines. 15. A method according to claim 11 wherein illuminating said area is carried out using a said pattern which is rotated to maximize the effect of surface distortion and/or facilitate said determination. 16. A method according to claim 11 wherein illuminating said area is carried out using a said pattern which is oscillated to cause said lines to sweep through at least a portion of a distortion on said surface. 17. A method according to claim 14 wherein the projection of said grille or grid is zoomed in and out to change the density of lines on said surface. 18. A method according to claim 11 wherein a distortion rating number is further generated proportional to the degree of deviation of said lines. 19. A method according to claim 18 when a said rating is generated which further includes consideration of the area over which deviations above a given value exist. 20. A method according to claim 1 wherein a said retroreflective member is used in returning the light to the illuminated surface which comprises a substantially dense distribution of glass beads. 21. A method according to claim 20 wherein said retroreflective member is used in returning the light to the illuminated surface which comprises beads in a diameter range 20-150 microns. 22. A method according to claim 20 wherein a said retroreflective member is used in returning the light to the illuminated surface which comprises glass beads of a size that is essentially uniform within a 30% variation on said screen. 23. A method according to claim 1 wherein said determination step includes comparing gray level images of said surface or portions thereof to at least one stored image. 24. A method according to claim 23 wherein a plurality of said stored images are used and said stored images represent images taken of similar part surfaces having varying levels of distortion severity. 25. A method according to claim 24 wherein said part surfaces are located in a uniform location such that comparison can be easily made. 26. A method according to claim 1 wherein said imaged light is imaged on an image sensor and a light source used to illuminate said surface is pulsed to "freeze" the image of said surface on said sensor. 27. A method according to claim 1 wherein said imaged light is imaged on an image sensor and said surface is in motion relative to said sensor. 28. A method according to claim 23 wherein at least one stored image is subtracted from the actual image. 29. A method according to claim 1 wherein said determination step includes thresholding said imaged light to provide only the most black and/or bright area relative to the surrounding panel image being compared. 30. A method according to claim 1 wherein said determining step includes considering the part type whose surface is under inspection and calling from memory the determination steps required to inspect at least a portion of said part. 31. A method according to claim 30 wherein the image of at least a certain portion of said part is compared to stored images characteristic of distortion types which can exist on said part within said portion. 32. A method according to claim 31 wherein a correlation with said stored images is performed and the degree of correlation indicates the distortion type or severity. 33. A method according to claim 1 wherein said determination step includes consideration of spatially variant portions of said image within a certain band. 34. A method according to claim 33 wherein said band does not include high frequencies such as those of edges in said image. 35. A method according to claim 34 wherein said band does not include the DC component having effectively no spatial variance in light intensity. 36. A method according to claim 1 wherein said determining step includes convoluting said image. 37. A method according to claim 1 wherein said determining step first includes the step of enhancing the contrast of said image in at least an area of interest. 38. A method according to claim 1 wherein said imaged light is recorded and said determination step is performed at a later time. 39. A method according to claim 38 wherein a plurality of images of different examples of the same type are recorded. 40. A method according to claim 39 wherein said plurality is averaged to form an average image. 41. A method according to claim 40 wherein said averaging step occurs performing a preprocessing step on each image. 42. A method according to claim 40 wherein a test image is subtracted from a stored image to determine differences between the two images. 43. A method according to claim 1 wherein said surface is alterable in its geometric form by electronic, mechanical or other means. 44. A method according to claim 1 wherein said determining step includes optical comparison of the image produced in said imaging step with stored images or other spatially variant patterns. 45. A method according to claim 1 wherein said determination step comprises determining, from the intensity variations in the imaged light, geometric distortion of said surface. 46. An apparatus for inspecting a surface comprising: illuminating means for illuminating an extensive area of the surface by directing light onto the surface area in such a manner that light is reflected therefrom; a retro-reflective member comprising a large number of small retro-reflective elements positioned relative to the surface such that light reflected from the extensive illuminated surface area impinges thereon, is then returned to the illuminated surface area, and is re-reflected therefrom; imaging means for imaging light re-reflected from the extensive illuminated surface area; scanning means for scanning the imaged light to determine intensity variations in that imaged light; and detecting means for determining from the intensity variations in the imaged light a characteristic of the extensive illuminated surface area. 47. An apparatus as claimed in claim 46 wherein said detecting means comprises means for determining from the intensity variations in the imaged light, geometric distortion of the extensive illuminated surface area. 48. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein the axis of illumination of the surface is angularly displaced from the axis of said imaging so as to form bright or dark regions characteristic of form defects on said surface. 49. An apparatus according to claim 48 wherein said illumination axis is closer to said surface than said imaging axis. 50. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said illuminating means comprises a light source and wherein said surface and said retro-reflective member are substantially greater in dimension than said light source. 51. An apparatus according to claim 50 wherein said light source comprises a substantially point source. 52. An apparatus according to claim 46 further comprising means for generating a rating number for said intensity variations which is proportional to the degree of dark (bright) signal below (above) a threshold value. 53. An apparatus according to claim 52 wherein said threshold value is determined relative to an average value of image intensity in the region of a distortion in the surface. 54. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said scanning means comprises a TV camera. 55. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said detecting means comprises means for substantially determining any deviation in the local geometric form of said surface. 56. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said detecting means comprises means for inspecting scratches, pits, blisters, runs and other blemishes and distortions of small dimension in said surface. 57. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said illuminating means comprises means for projecting light in the form of a pattern of at least one line, and said detecting means comprises means for determining local deviations in said at least one line caused by a distortion in said surface. 58. An apparatus according to claim 57 wherein said detecting means determines the deviation in at least one edge of said at least one line. 59. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said surface is substantially in focus in said image. 60. An apparatus according to claim 57 wherein said pattern comprises a grille or grid of parallel lines. 61. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said pattern is rotated to maximize the effect of surface distortion and/or to facilitate the determination made by said detecting means. 62. An apparatus as claimed in claim 57 wherein said pattern is oscillated to cause said at least one line to sweep through at least a portion of a distortion in said surface. 63. An apparatus according to claim 60 further comprising zoom means for zooming the projection of said grille or grid in and out to change the density of lines on said surface. 64. An apparatus according to claim 57 further comprising means for generating a distortion rating number proportional to the degree of deviation of lines of said pattern. 65. An apparatus according to claim 64 wherein said rating further includes consideration of the area over which deviations above a given value exist. 66. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said retro-reflective member comprises a screen composed of a substantially dense distribution of glass beads. 67. An apparatus as claimed in claim 66 wherein said beads are in a diameter range of 20 to 150 microns. 68. An apparatus according to claim 66 wherein the size of said glass beads is essentially uniform within a 30 degree variation. 69. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said detecting means includes means for comparing gray level images of said surface or portions thereof with at least one stored image. 70. An apparatus according to claim 69 wherein a plurality of stored images are used and said stored images represent images taken of similar part surfaces having varying levels of distortion severity. 71. An apparatus according to claim 70 wherein said part surfaces are located in a uniform location such that a comparison can be easily made. 72. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said illuminating means comprises a light source, said scanning means includes an image sensor and said apparatus further comprises means for pulsing said light source to "freeze" the image of said surface on said image sensor. 73. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said scanning means includes an image sensor and wherein said surface is in motion relative to said image sensor. 74. An apparatus according to claim 69 wherein said detecting means includes means for subtracting at least one stored image from the actual image. 75. An apparatus according to claim 46 wherein said detecting means includes means for thresholding the imaged light to provide only the most black and/or bright areas relative to a surrounding panel image being compared therewith. 76. An apparatus according to claim 46 further comprising means for recording the imaged light, said detecting means acting to determine a characteristic of said surface based on the recorded imaged light at a time later than the recording thereof. 77. An apparatus as claimed in claim 76 wherein a plurality of images of different examples of the same type are recorded by said recording means. 78. An apparatus according to claim 77 further comprising means for averaging said plurality of images to form an average image. 79. An apparatus as claimed in claim 78 further comprising means for performing a preprocessing step on each image before averaging of said image by said averaging means. 80. An apparatus according to claim 78 further comprising means for subtracting a test image from a stored image to determine differences between the two images. 81. An apparatus according to claim 46 further comprising means for altering the geometric form of said surface. 