An open topped carrier (2) has a space (6) dimensioned to receive a plurality of coiled wire segments (100) hung on hangers (26) carried by upper portions of dividers (22). The dividers (22) are held in vertical, horizontally spaced use positions by slots (12) formed on the inner wall surfaces of the carrier (2). Each divider (22) may be independently grasped and slid into an elevated use position to facilitate hanging the coiled segment (100) on the hanger (26). A clamping device (32) extends along each of opposite side portions of an upper flange (14) of the carrier (2). The ends (102) of each segment (100) are clamped in an accessible transport position by the clamping device (32). The carrier (2) may have portions to facilitate handling of the segment ends (102) by an operator and/or an indicator bar (58) with a plurality of lights (62) aligned with the segment ends (102) for a human operator. The coiled configuration permits a segment end (102) to be released from the clamp (32) and pulled away from the carrier (2) for processing without moving the segment (100) or the divider (22) on which it is hung away from their lower transport positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of transporting a plurality of wire segments and of delivering the ends of said segments to devices for processing said ends, comprising: providing a carrier having a top opening; said carrier including a plurality of substantially vertical, horizontally spaced dividers, and two rows of clamps adjacent to opposite lateral edges of said opening; each said divider having a hanger on a top portion thereof; hanging each of a plurality of wire segments in a loosely coiled configuration on a different one of said hangers, and allowing said segment to extend downwardly and laterally outwardly from said hanger in said carrier; securing each end of each said segment in a clamp in a different one of said rows of clamps; transporting the carrier with said segments hanging therein and said ends so clamped to a work station where at least one said device is located; releasing one end of one of said segments from said clamp, and while allowing said segment to continue to hang on said hanger, pulling said one end into engagement with said device; and after pulling said one end and while continuing to allow said segment to hang on said hanger, moving said one end back to said clamp and again securing said one end in said clamp. 2. The method of claim 1, which comprises providing said carrier with robot engaging portions, and indexing said clamps to said portions to enable a robot to precisely locate each end of each wire segment secured by said clamps; and in which the steps of releasing, pulling, moving, and again securing said one end include causing a robot to grip said one end. 3. The method of claim 2, in which the step of pulling said one end includes storing spring energy in said segment by reducing the diameter of a coil of said segment, and the step of moving said one end back includes allowing said spring energy to pull said one end. 4. The method of claim 1, in which the step of pulling said one end includes storing spring energy in said segment by reducing the diameter of a coil of said segment, and the step of moving said one end back includes allowing said spring energy to pull said one end. 5. The method of claim 1, comprising, before hanging each said segment, sliding said divider upwardly into a loading position in which said hanger is above said opening; and after hanging said segment, lowering said divider into a transport position in which said hanger is at least substantially below said opening. 