A mechanical robot having hydraulically operated arms, mandible claws, neck, head and jaw, resembles a giant prehistoric reptile. It is driven from an on-board cockpit and is capable of picking up an automobile and crushing it, then biting into it with large teeth located within a powerful jaw. Various audible and visual effects are produced during operation thereby generating a frightful spectacle for exhibition, promotion and entertainment. The robot is capable of folding into a rigid structure and being attached to a trailer tractor for road hauling on its own wheels.
Claims I claim: 1. A trailerable robotic figure comprising a body and a tail mounted upon at least one pair of forward wheels and at least one pair of rear wheels, said body being hinged to said tail for movement of said body between an erect exhibition position and a lowered trailerable position wherein a portion of said body extends forwardly of said tail and includes attachment means for pivotal connection to a tractor for hauling said robotic figure over roads. 2. The robotic figure of claim 1 wherein said tail includes a pair of hinged support legs for movement between an inward mutually proximal position for trailering and a spread apart position for exhibition, said legs being supported upon said forward wheels. 3. The robotic figure of claim 1 wherein said body includes a head with jaw pivotally mounted thereon, said jaw having said attachment means mounted thereon. 4. The robotic figure of claim 3 wherein said body includes at least one arm for grasping and lifting heavy objects from ground level to said jaw, said arm being constructed for crushing said heavy objects. 5. The robotic figure of claim 3 whereby said jaw includes means for crushing said heavy object. 6. The robotic figure of claim 1 further comprising flame generating means. 7. The robotic figure of claim 1 further comprising a cockpit for a human operator and motion and drive control actuators for selecting animation movements of said robotic figure. 8. A trailerable robotic figure comprising a body and a tail mounted upon at least one pair of forward wheels and at least one pair of rear wheels, said body being hinged to said tail for movement of said body between an erect exhibition position and a lowered trailerable position wherein a portion of said body extends forwardly of said tail and includes attachment means to a tractor for hauling said robotic figure over roads, said tail further comprising a pair of hinged support legs for movement between an inward mutually proximal position for trailering and a spread apart position for exhibition, said legs being supported by said forward wheels, and a head with jaw pivotally mounted thereon, said jaw having said attachment means mounted thereon, and further comprising at least one arm for grasping and lifting heavy objects from ground level to said jaw, said arm and said jaw being constructed for crushing said heavy objects, said figure further comprising flame generating means for burning said heavy objects and for visual delight, and a cockpit for a human operator, said cockpit having drive and control actuators whereby said operator can select and control animation movements and special effects of said robotic figure. 9. The robotic figure of claim 8 wherein said forward wheels are individually driven for providing forward thrust and steering during exhibition and said rear wheels are unlockable for free pivot caster motion for improved mobility. 10. The robotic figure of claim 8 or claim 9 further comprising at least one compression strut which when inserted between said head and said body or between said body and said tail or both, provides rigidization of said figure for trailering and provides hunching of said figure thereby lifting said forward wheels off said road whereby said figure is trailerable on said rear wheels while being pulled by said head. 11. A robotic figure having the appearance and size of a dinosaur, comprising a body, a head having pivoted jaw and ears, a neck connecting said body with said head, two rotatable arms with articulated forearms, wrists and claws, a tail providing hinged support to said body, two legs hingibly attached to said tail supporting thereon drive wheels individually driven for providing forward thrust and steering during exhibition and at least one pair of rear wheels mounted as a caster to said tail for improved mobility, said body movable between an erect exhibition position and a lowered trailerable position wherein said head may be pivotally attached to a trailer tractor for hauling said robotic figure over roads while at least one compression strut which when inserted between said head and said body or between said body and said tail or both, provides rigidization of said figure for trailering and provides hunching of said figure thereby lifting said forward wheels off said road whereby said figure is trailerable on said rear wheels while said legs are moved to a new inward mutually proximal position for trailering from a former spread apart position for exhibition, said arms and said jaw being constructed for crushing a heavy objects, said figure further comprising flame and smoke generating means for burning said heavy objects and for visual effect, and a cockpit for a human operator, said cockpit having drive and control actuators whereby said operator can select animation movements and special effects of said robotic figure. 12. The robotic figure of claim 11 further comprising a separate remote control wherein said drive and control actuators may be operated from a remote location. 13. The robotic figure of claim 11 further comprising a video camera and transmitter whereby a camera image view from said head can be transmitted for remote projection. 14. The robotic figure of claim 11 further comprising flood lights mounted thereupon for simulating laser effects projected from said head. 15. The robotic figure of claim 11 further comprising skin lights mounted upon said body, head, arms and legs as visual effects. 16. The robotic figure of claim 11 further comprising microphones mounted to said arms and said head, further including speakers and an audio amplifier mounted within said body for broadcasting sounds of crushing. 17. The robotic figure of claim 11 wherein said flame generating means are supplied a mixture of liquid and gaseous propane as fuel for generating said flame, said gaseous propane being generated by passing said liquid propane over heated lines, said heat being generated by said flame. 18. The robotic figure of claim 11 wherein said drive wheels are driven from drive pumps developing hydraulic pressure from rotating force generated by an engine. 19. The robotic figure of claim 11 wherein said motion and crushing forces are derived from hydraulic cylinders developing hydraulic pressure from open loop pumps driven by an engine. 