Examples and implementations of various robotic mechanisms, devices, components, systems and techniques are provided, including multimodal robotic devices and systems. For example, a multimodal robot can be configured to autonomously reconfigure between two or more primary modes of operation. Such robots may be used in a wide range of applications, including reconnaissance, exploration, search and rescue, military, sports, personal assistance, education, and entertainment and toys. Described examples of multimodal robots can be wheeled robots that use two or more drive wheels to perform various motions and operations.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robot, comprising: a robot frame; an elongated rigid beam movably engaged to the robot frame as a hopping leg; two pitch-axis reaction drive wheels engaged to the robot frame, mounted on opposite sides of the robot frame, to spin around a pitch axis and provide reaction-wheel stabilization when the pitch-axis reaction drive wheels are not in contact with one or more surfaces, or to drive and steer the robot when these wheels are in contact with one or more surfaces, wherein the pitch-axis reaction drive wheels are independently powered, controlled and operated; a roll-axis reaction drive wheel engaged to the robot frame to spin around a rotation axis that is perpendicular to the pitch axis, and operable to balance the robot when the pitch axis wheel is not in contact with a surface; and a hopping propulsion mechanism comprising coupled linkages tensioned by one or more springs and actuated in a rotary manner, thereby acting as continuously variable transmission between rotation of a motor output shaft and linear motion of the hopping leg. 2. The robot as in claim 1, wherein each of the first and second pitch-axis reaction drive wheels and the roll-axis reaction drive wheel is configured to comprise a drive motor and a portable power supply that energizes the drive motor to power the respective wheel. 3. The robot as in claim 2, wherein the portable power supply comprises at least one battery, and in which these batteries function together with the wheel-mounted motors as ballast to increase the reaction wheel inertia. 4. The robot as in claim 1, wherein the hopping propulsion mechanism comprises one or more coupled four bar linkage mechanisms to produce the linear motion of the hopping leg along a straight line. 5. The robot as in claim 1, wherein the hopping propulsion mechanism comprises one or more coupled four bar linkage mechanisms to lock the one or more springs into a fully tensioned state. 6. The robot as in claim 1, comprising a body-mounted motion sensing module to detect the motion and orientation of the robot, consisting of one or more of the following: a magnetometer, a gyroscope, an accelerometer, and/or a GPS unit. 7. The robot as in claim 1, comprising an integrated vision system to detect and identify surroundings and/or objects of interest. 8. A method of operating the robot as in claim 1, comprising: independently controlling the rotation of first and second pitch-axis reaction drive wheels to propel and steer the robot as a rover, either in a horizontal configuration when the robot is supported by first and second pitch-axis reaction drive wheels and the roll-axis reaction wheel or an upright configuration when the robot is supported by first and second pitch-axis reaction drive wheels, and further, using the torque of the first and second pitch-axis reaction drive wheels to transition between the horizontal and upright configurations. 9. The method as in claim 8, further comprising controlling the rotation of the first and second pitch-axis and roll-axis reaction wheels to stabilize the robot about both axes when the pitch axis wheels are not in contact with the ground. 10. The method as in claim 8, further comprising: activating the hopping propulsion mechanism to cause the robot to hop. 11. The method as in claim 8, further comprising controlling the robot based on a nonlinear trajectory planning to counter external disturbances to the robot. 12. The robot as in claim 1, wherein each reaction drive wheel comprises: a drive motor that is engaged at a location off a respective rotation axis of the reaction wheel as a functional mass and drives the reactive wheel to rotate around the respective rotation axis; and a portable power supply that is engaged at a location off the respective rotation axis of the reaction wheel as a functional mass and energizes the drive motor to drive the reaction drive wheel. 13. The robot as in claim 1, wherein each reaction drive wheel comprises: a drive motor that is engaged at a location off a respective rotation axis of the reaction wheel as a functional mass and drives the reactive wheel to rotate around the respective rotation axis; and a plurality of portable power supplies that are engaged at locations off the respective rotation axis of the reaction wheel as a functional mass and energize the drive motor to drive the reaction drive wheel. 14. The robot as in claim 1, wherein: the two pitch-axis reaction drive wheels are structured to have sufficient inertial in each wheel to drive the robot to control a direction of the hopping leg with respect to the pitch axis to include at least (1) a first direction in which the hopping leg is directed upward from a surface on which the two pitch-axis reaction drive wheels are located and on which the robot roves or hops, and (2) a second direction in which the hopping leg is pointed along a surface on which the two pitch-axis reaction drive wheels are located and on which the robot roves. 15. The robot as in claim 1, wherein: the two pitch-axis reaction drive wheels are mounted to the robot frame to be adjustable in their orientations relative to each other to include at least (1) a first relative orientation in which the two pitch-axis reaction drive wheels are parallel and each spins around the pitch axis, and (2) a second relative orientation in which the two pitch-axis reaction drive wheels are oriented at a relative angle with respect to each other and each spins around a respective rotation axis that deviates from the pitch axis by the relative angle. 16. The robot as in claim 15, comprising: a control mechanism to control the two pitch-axis reaction drive wheels in the first relative orientation in roving on a surface. 17. The robot as in claim 15, comprising: a control mechanism to control the two pitch-axis reaction drive wheels in the second relative orientation to balance the robot when the hopping propulsion mechanism drives the robot to hop above a surface. 18. The robot as in claim 1, wherein: the hopping propulsion mechanism comprises a propulsion motor that drives the coupled linkages to cause the hopping leg to move relative to the robot frame to cause the robot to hop. 19. The robot as in claim 18, wherein: the propulsion motor includes a motor housing relative to which the motor output shaft rotates, and the hopping propulsion mechanism comprises a motor engagement mechanism to engage the propulsion motor in a first motor mode in which the motor output shaft is fixed while the motor housing rotates around the motor output shaft and a second motor mode in which the motor housing is fixed while the motor output shaft rotates, and one of the first and second motor modes is used to stretch the springs and the other motor mode is used to actuate the coupled linkages in controlling hopping of the robot. 20. A robot, comprising: a robot frame; an elongated rigid beam movably engaged to the robot frame as a hopping leg; first and second pitch-axis reaction drive wheels engaged to the robot frame on two opposite sides to spin around a first rotation axis, wherein the first and second pitch-axis reaction drive wheels are positioned to stabilize the robot and to drive and move the robot, and wherein the first and second pitch-axis reaction drive wheels are independently powered, controlled and operated; a roll-axis reaction drive wheel engaged to the robot frame to spin around a second rotation axis that is perpendicular to the first rotation axis around which the first and second pitch-axis reaction drive wheels spin and operable to balance the robot; and a spring-loaded hopping propulsion device mounted to the hopping leg and the robot frame to comprise a linkage structure that engages the hopping leg to the robot frame and a hopping propulsion motor that causes a motion of the hopping leg relative to the robot frame. 21. The robot as in claim 20, wherein each of the first and second pitch-axis reaction drive wheels and the roll-axis reaction drive wheel is configured to comprise a drive motor and a portable power supply that energizes the drive motor to power the respective wheel. 22. The robot as in claim 21, wherein the portable power supply comprises at least one battery. 23. The robot as in claim 21, wherein the linkage structure of the spring-loaded hopping propulsion device comprises four linked bars. 24. The robot as in claim 21, further comprising: a motion sensing module mounted to the robot frame and operable to detect a motion and orientation of the robot. 25. The robot as in claim 24, wherein the motion sensing module comprises at least one accelerometer and one gyroscope. 26. The robot as in claim 25, wherein the motion sensing module comprises: three accelerometers for measurements along three orthogonal directions; and three gyroscopes for measurements along three orthogonal directions. 27. The robot as in claim 20, wherein: the hopping propulsion motor comprises a rotary output shaft and a motor housing relative to which the rotary output shaft rotates, the hopping propulsion device comprises a spring engaged to the linkage structure that connects the robot frame and the hopping leg to each other to cause a relative linear motion between the robot frame and the hopping leg to cause the robot to hop, the spring being engaged to the rotary output shaft to change spring tension when the rotary output shaft rotates relative to the motor housing fixed relative to the robot frame and the motor housing being engaged to the linkage structure to move the hopping leg relative to the robot frame when the rotary output shaft is fixed relative to the robot frame while the motor housing rotates relative to the robot frame; and the robot comprises a first motor engagement mechanism to fix the rotary output shaft relative to the robot frame and to allow the motor housing to rotate relative to the robot frame, a second motor engagement mechanism to fix the motor housing relative to the robot frame and to allow the rotary output shaft to rotate relative to the robot frame, and a control mechanism to activate one of the first and second motor engagement mechanisms at one time while disabling the other. 28. A robot, comprising: a first reaction drive wheel comprising a first rotation axis around which the first reaction drive wheel spins, a first wheel motor to cause the first reaction drive wheel to spin, and a first power supply that energizes the first wheel motor; a second reaction drive wheel comprising a second rotation axis around which the second reaction drive wheel spins, a second wheel motor to cause the second reaction drive wheel to spin, and a second power supply that energizes the second wheel motor; a pole; a wheel mount movably engaged to the pole and engaged to the first and second reaction drive wheels on two sides of the pole, the wheel mount comprising a motorized unit to drive the wheel mount along the pole; and an adjustable wheel holding unit engaged to the first and second reaction drive wheels and located between the first and second reaction drive wheels to control and adjust a relative orientation between the first and second reaction drive wheels to include at least (1) a first relative orientation in which the first and second reaction drive wheels are parallel, and (2) a second relative orientation in which the first and second reaction drive wheels are oriented at a relative angle with respect to each other. 29. A robot, comprising: a first reaction drive wheel comprising a first rotation axis around which the first reaction drive wheel spins, a first wheel motor to cause the first reaction drive wheel to spin, and a first power supply that energizes the first wheel motor; a second reaction drive wheel comprising a second rotation axis around which the second reaction drive wheel spins, a second wheel motor to cause the second reaction drive wheel to spin, and a second power supply that energizes the second wheel motor; a pole; a wheel mount movably engaged to the pole and engaged to the first and second reaction drive wheels on two sides of the pole, the wheel mount comprising a motorized unit to drive the wheel mount along the pole; a first wheel support arm having a first end engaged to the first reaction drive wheel and a second end engaged to the wheel mount, the first wheel support arm movable around the wheel mount to change a position of the first reaction drive wheel relative to the wheel mount; and a second wheel support arm having a first end engaged to the second reaction drive wheel and a second end engaged to the wheel mount, the second wheel support arm movable around the wheel mount to change a position of the second reaction drive wheel relative to the wheel mount. 30. The robot as in claim 29, wherein: the first and second wheel support arms are located symmetric to each other with respect to the wheel mount and are on opposite sides of the pole as the first and second wheel support arms move around the wheel mount. 31. A robot, comprising: a first reaction drive wheel comprising a first rotation axis around which the first reaction drive wheel spins, a first wheel motor to cause the first reaction drive wheel to spin, and a first power supply that energizes the first wheel motor; a second reaction drive wheel comprising a second rotation axis around which the second reaction drive wheel spins, a second wheel motor to cause the second first reaction drive wheel to spin, and a second power supply that energizes the second wheel motor; a pole; and a wheel mount movably engaged to the pole and engaged to the first and second reaction drive wheels on two sides of the pole, the wheel mount comprising a motorized unit to drive the wheel mount along the pole, the wheel mount comprises: a plurality of pair of friction rollers, each pair being movably engaged to the pole to move along the pole by friction; and a plurality of friction roller motors, each friction roller motor engaged to drive a respective friction roller. 32. A robot, comprising: a robot frame; an elongated rigid beam movably engaged to the robot frame as a hopping leg; a first reaction drive wheel engaged to the robot frame on a first side of the hopping leg and comprising a first rotation axis around which the first reaction drive wheel spins, a first wheel motor to cause the first reaction drive wheel to spin, and a first power supply that energizes the first wheel motor; a second reaction drive wheel engaged to the robot frame on a second side of the hopping leg and comprising a second rotation axis around which the second reaction drive wheel spins, a second wheel motor to cause the second reaction drive wheel to spin, and a second power supply that energizes the second wheel motor; and a hopping propulsion device mounted to the hopping leg and the robot frame and structured to include a linkage structure that engages the hopping leg to the robot frame and a hopping propulsion motor that causes a motion of linkage structure to move the hopping leg relative to the robot frame to cause the robot to hop. 33. The robot as in claim 32, wherein: the hopping propulsion motor comprises a rotary output shaft and a motor housing relative to which the rotary output shaft rotates, the hopping propulsion device comprises a spring engaged to the linkage structure that connects the robot frame and the hopping leg to each other to cause a relative linear motion between the robot frame and the hopping leg to cause the robot to hop, the spring being engaged to the rotary output shaft to change spring tension when the rotary output shaft rotates relative to the motor housing fixed relative to the robot frame and the motor housing being engaged to the linkage structure to move the hopping leg relative to the robot frame when the rotary output shaft is fixed relative to the robot frame while the motor housing rotates relative to the robot frame; and the robot comprises a first motor engagement mechanism to fix the rotary output shaft relative to the robot frame and to allow the motor housing to rotate relative to the robot frame, a second motor engagement mechanism to fix the motor housing relative to the robot frame and to allow the rotary output shaft to rotate relative to the robot frame, and a control mechanism to activate one of the first and second motor engagement mechanisms at one time while disabling the other. 34. The robot as in claim 32, wherein: the first and second reaction drive wheels are structured to have sufficient inertial to drive the robot to control a direction of the hopping leg to include at least (1) a first direction in which the hopping leg is directed upward from a surface on which the first and second reaction drive wheels are located and on which the robot roves or hops, and (2) a second direction in which the hopping leg is pointed along a surface on which the first and second reaction drive wheels are located and on which the robot roves. 35. The robot as in claim 32, wherein: the first and second reaction drive wheels are mounted to the robot frame to be adjustable in their orientations relative to each other to include at least (1) a first relative orientation in which the first and second reaction drive wheels are parallel, and (2) a second relative orientation in which the first and second reaction drive wheels are oriented at a relative angle with respect to each other. 36. The robot as in claim 35, comprising: a control mechanism to control the first and second reaction drive wheels in the first relative orientation in roving on a surface. 37. The robot as in claim 35, comprising: a control mechanism to control the first and second reaction drive wheels in the second relative orientation to balance the robot when the robot hops above a surface. 