Method and apparatus for providing peer-to-peer force feedback over a computer network. A network force feedback system includes a network, a first computer coupled to the network, and a second computer coupled to the network. The first and second computers each include a visual display and a force feedback interface device. Each computer provides a force feedback signal to its force feedback device based on information received from the other, remote computer and in some cases also based on input from the local force feedback device. Positional information of each force feedback device and/or feel sensation information can be transmitted between the computers over the network. A graphical environment can be displayed to enhance the interaction between users. The present invention therefore permits two computer users to interact using force feedback provided over a network on a peer-to-peer basis.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A networked haptic feedback gaming system comprising: a first computer having a network interface for communicating with a second computer over a network, the first computer configured to: generate a first image in a first gaming environment on the visual display, the first image based on second information received from a second computer, the second information comprising second force information, transmit the first image to a first display; generate a first force feedback signal based at least in part on the second force information received from the second computer; transmit the first force feedback signal to a first actuator configured to output a first force effect based on the first force feedback signal, generate first information, the first information comprising first force information, transmit the first information to the second computer; and wherein the second computer is configured to: generate a second image in a second gaming environment on the visual display, the second image based on the first information received from the first computer, transmit the second image to a second display; generate a second force feedback signal based at least in part on the first force information received from the first computer; and transmit the second force feedback signal to a second actuator configured to output a second force effect based on the second force feedback signal. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first computer is in communication with a first manipulandum comprising the first actuator configured to output the first haptic effect. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first manipulandum comprises a local processor configured to: receive the first force feedback signal and to generate a first actuator signal based on the first force feedback signal; and transmit the first actuator signal to the first actuator to cause the first actuator to output the first force effect. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first force effect is correlated with the first image. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first computer is configured to communicate with the second computer in a peer-to-peer mode. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the second haptic information comprises mapping information indicating a feel sensation. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the first computer is further configured to request server force information over the network from a server, receive the server force information, and to generate the first force feedback signal based on the server force information. 8. A method comprising: sending a first force signal from a first computer to a second computer, the first force signal configured to cause a first force feedback signal to be sent to a second force feedback device from the second computer, wherein the first force feedback signal is configured to cause the second force feedback device to output a first force using an actuator of the second force feedback device; receiving second information from the second computer, the second information comprising second force information; generating a second force feedback signal based on the second force information, the second force feedback signal configured to cause the first force feedback device to output a second force using an actuator of the first force feedback device; transmitting the second force feedback signal to a first force feedback device in communication with the first computer; and displaying an image based on the second information. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein outputting the second force is correlated with first image. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the first computer is configured to communicate with the second computer in a peer-to-peer mode. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the second force information comprises mapping information indicating a feel sensation. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising requesting server force information from a server, receiving the server force information, and generating the first force feedback signal based on the server haptic information. 13. A memory comprising program code, the program code comprising: program code for sending a first force signal from a first computer to a second computer, the first force signal configured to cause a first force feedback signal to be sent to a second force feedback device from the second computer, wherein the first force feedback signal is configured to cause the second force feedback device to output a first force using an actuator of the second force feedback device; program code for receiving second information from the second computer, the second information comprising second force information; program code for generating a second force feedback signal based on the second force information, the second force feedback signal configured to cause the first force feedback device to output a second force using an actuator of the first force feedback device; program code for transmitting the second force feedback signal to a first force feedback device in communication with the first computer; and program code for displaying an image based on the second information. 14. The memory of claim 13, wherein outputting the second force is correlated with first image. 15. The memory of claim 13, wherein the first computer is configured to communicate with the second computer in a peer-to-peer mode. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the second force information comprises mapping information indicating a feel sensation. 17. The memory of claim 13, further comprising program code for requesting server force information from a server, program code for receiving the server force information, and program code for generating the first force feedback signal based on the server force information. 