A multi-component transformer to be used in conjunction with surface mounting technology. Transformer windings are provided by a plurality of conductors arranged in parallel and disposed around a ferrite core. A portion of the winding is disposed in a spacer member or alternatively is formed from tracings of a circuit board. A portion of a ferrite core is disposed above the conductors. Then a bridge member, which is U-shaped and has a plurality of conductors disposed in a dielectric body, is disposed to overlie a portion of the magnetic core overlying the first tracings. The conductors of the bridge member are coupled to the underlying tracings such that the tracings form a continuous loop around a portion of the magnetic core to function as a winding of a transformer. Alternative embodiments are disclosed in which variations of the multi-component provides variations in the design.
Claims I claim: 1. A small size, light weighted surface mount transformer assembly used in surface mount technology comprising a surface mountable transformer winding including: a spacer member having a plurality of conductors disposed therein; a magnetic core disposed onto said spacer member; said spacer member comprising a substantially flat housing having a width dimension of at least the width of said magnetic core; a bridge member having a U-shaped housing portion having a plurality of conductors disposed therein; said U-shaped housing portion having opposing sides, having a height dimension of said magnetic core and a connecting portion having a dimension to encompass the width of said magnetic core; said bridge member being disposed onto said magnetic core to substantially overlie said spacer member and substantially enclose exposed portions of said magnetic core overlying said spacer member; said conductors of said spacer member being coupled to said conductors of said bridge member, such as to form a continuous loop around said magnetic core to form said transformer winding. magnetic core to form said transformer winding. 2. The transformer winding of claim 1, wherein said conductors of said spacer member are disposed in a dielectric spacer housing. 3. The transformer winding of claim 2, wherein said conductors of said bridge member are disposed in a dielectric bridge housing. 4. The transformer winding of claim 3, wherein said conductors of said bridge member are arranged in parallel and wherein opposite ends of each of said bridge conductors extend out of said dielectric bridge housing. 5. The transformer winding of claim 4, wherein said conductors of said spacer member are arranged in parallel and wherein opposite ends of each of said spacer conductors extend out of said dielectric spacer housing. 6. The tranformer winding of claim 5, wherein said magnetic core is made from a ferromagnetic material. 7. The transformer winding of claim 6, wherein said core is rectangular in shape. 