An automatic grinding system and method for grinding a surface having a predetermined pattern of raised and lower regions includes sensing the width of at least one of those regions; determining the height of the raised region above the lower region in response to the sensed width; and selecting the grinding speed and force and the velocity of the grinder over the surface in response to the determined height of the raised region.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic grinding system for grinding a surface having a predetermined pattern of raised and lower regions, comprising: means for grinding the raised regions down to the level of the lower regions, said means including a grinder, said grinder having a flexible member for supporting a grinding medium selected to maintain the surface of the raised regions flat during the grinding of the surface; means for controlling the grinding force, the grinding speed and the velocity over the surface of the means for grinding; means for sensing the width of at least one of the regions; means, responsive to the means for sensing, for determining the height of the raised regions above the lower region; and means, responsive to said means for determining the height, for driving said means for controlling to set the grinding speed and force and the velocity over the surface of the means for grinding. 2. The automatic grinding system of claim 1 in which said means for grinding includes a robot arm. 3. The automatic grinding system of claim 1 in which said grinder is a rotary grinder. 4. The automatic grinding system of claim 3 in which said flexible member is a disk. 5. The automatic grinding system of claim 1 in which said means for grinding includes a grinding medium of approximately 50-120 grit. 6. The automatic grinding system of claim 1 in which said means for controlling includes a robot controller. 7. The automatic grinding system of claim 1 in which said means for sensing includes a TV camera. 8. The automatic grinding system of claim 1 in which said means for driving include means for detecting the force applied between the means for grinding and the surface. 9. The automatic grinding system of claim 1 in which said means for driving includes means for ascertaining the grinding speed of said means for grinding. 10. The automatic grinding system of claim 1 in which said means for controlling includes means for automatically ascertaining the sharpness of the means for grinding. 11. The automatic grinding system of claim 1 in which said means for grinding includes means for changing grinding media. 12. An automatic grinding method for grinding a surface having a predetermined pattern of raised and lower regions, comprising: sensing the width of at least one of those regions; determining the height of the raised region above the lower region in response to the sensed width; selecting the grinding speed and force and the velocity of the grinder over the surface in response to the determined height of the raised region; and selecting the grit size of the grinding medium to obtain a predetermined surface shape of the ground surface during grinding. 13. The automatic grinding method of claim 12 including: automatically determining the sharpness of the grinding medium; automatically adjusting the selected speed and force in response to the sharpness; and changing to new grinding media when the sharpness falls below a preset limit. 14. The automatic grinding method of claim 12 including changing to different grinding media when grinding is nearly complete. 15. The automatic grinding method of claim 12 wherein said predetermined surface shape of the ground surface is flat. 16. The automatic grinding method of claim 12 including selecting the grit size of the grinding medium, and selecting the velocity of the grinder over the surface based on the grit size to obtain a predetermined surface finish. 