A robotically controlled pick-uo to tool (11) is modified by connecting to it a load cell (26) that generates a signal indicative of stress on the pick-up tool. The pick-up tool is directed toward a chip (12) to be removed and movement is stopped when the load cell generates a first signal indicative of a first level of stress. In addition to stopping movement of the pick-up tool, the first signal actuates heating of the tool to a temperature sufficient to melt the solder (13) bonding the chip to the substrate (14). The melting of the solder bonds (13) results in a reduction of stress on the tool, which causes the load cell (26) to generate a signal indicative of the second level of stress. The second signal actuates the vacuum of the pick-up tool to cause adhesion of the chip to the pick-up tool and also initiates movement of the pick-up tool so as remove the chip from the substrate.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for removing an element that has been soldered to the surface of a substrate comprising the steps of: attaching a load cell to a vacuum pick-up tool, the load cell generating an electrical signal indicative of the mechanical stress of the tool against an object; causing the pick-up tool to contact and to bear against the soldered element until the load cell generates a first signal indicative of a first level of stress; in response to the first signal, heating the tool to a temperature sufficient to melt the solder bonding the element to the substrate, said melting resulting in a second level of stress on the tool which is smaller than the first level of stress, and further resulting in the load cell generating a second signal indicative of the second level of sress; in response to the second signal, actuating the pick-up tool; and using the pick-up tool to move the element from the substrate. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein: the element in an integrated circuit chip. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein: the pick-up tool is a vacuum pick-up tool; and a vacuum is applied to the pick-up tool in response to the second signal so as to cause adhesion of the element to the pick-up tool. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein: automatic control circuits are used for heating the tool in response to the first signal and for applying a vacuum in response to the second signal. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein: the first signal stops movement of the pick-up tool; and the second signal initiates movement of the pick-up tool. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein: the load cell comprises at least one strain gauge. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein: the load cell comprises a pair of strain gauges connected as arms of a resistance bridge. 8. Apparatus for removing an element that has been soldered to the surface of a substrate comprising: a pick-up tool; means comprising a load cell connected to the pick-up tool for generating an electrical signal indicative of the mechanical stress of the tool against an object; means for causing the pick-up tool to contact and bear against the soldered element until the load cell generates a first signal indicative of a first level of stress; means responsive to the first signal for heating the tool to a temperature sufficient to melt the solder bonding the element to the substrate, said melting resulting in a second level of stress on the pick-up tool that is smaller than the first level of stress; means comprising the load cell for generating a second signal indicative of the second level of stress; and means responsive to the second signal for actuating the pick-up tool and for causing the pick-up tool to remove the element from the substrate. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein: the element is an integrated circuit chip. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein: the pick-up tool is a vacuum pick-up tool; and further comprising; means responsive to the second signal for applying a vacuum to the pick-up tool, thereby causing adhesion of the element to the pick-up tool. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: automatic control circuits for heating the tool in response to the first signal and for applying a vacuum in response to the second signal. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 further comprising: means responsive to the first signal for stopping movement of the pick-up tool; and means responsive to the second signal for initiating movement of the pick-up tool. 13. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein: the load cell comprises a strain gauge. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein: the load cell comprises first and second strain gauges connected as arms in a resistance bridge. 