A sensitive, durable, high resolution tactile sensor particularly suited for use as a robot end effector in an automated manufacturing process. The tactile sensor has an array of pressure sensing sites provided by a series of current emitter electrodes surrounded by a series of companion current collector electrodes both of which engage a rough conductive layer carried on the underside of a resilient platen. The emitters are electrically connected together in parallel rows, and the collectors are electrically connected together in parallel columns above and across the rows. The emitters and collectors are electrically insulated from one another as are the rows and columns. When the platen engages an object to apply pressure at one of the sites, and a positive voltage is applied to an emitter electrode, current flows from the emitter electrode and through the conductive layer to the companion collector electrode from which it is collected and measured. Cross-multiplexing circuitry scans the rows and columns periodically to provide a readout of both the location and magnitude of applied pressure.
Claims We claim: 1. A tactile sensor for identifying the magnitudes and locations of pressures applied substantially contemporaneously thereto at a plurality of locations thereon, comprising: a resilient platen having upper and lower surfaces; a plurality of laterally spaced pressure sensing sites underlying said lower surface; each of said pressure sensing sites including emitter electrode means and companion collector electrode means surrounding said emitter electrode means in spaced relation therewith; flexible conductive means on said lower surface of said platen overlying said pressure sensing sites and cooperable therewith when said platen is deflected downwardly against a selected site to receive current emitted from said emitter electrode means and to conduct to said companion collector electrode means substantially all of the current flowing into the conductive means from said emitter electrode means; and control means for measuring, and for determining the locations of said sites constituting the source of, the current conducted from said emitter electrode means to said collector electrode means at each of said sites. 2. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 wherein said flexible conductive means includes a plurality of conductive microprotrusions on said lower surface cooperable with said platen to provide decreased resistance in response to increased downward pressure between said platen and said electrode means. 3. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 wherein said platen includes an electrically non-conductive elastomeric member and said conductive means includes electrically conductive particles distributed in an elastomeric carrier. 4. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 including means connecting said emitter electrode means together in laterally spaced rows, means connecting said collector electrode means together in laterally spaced columns disposed at an angle to said rows, and panel means mounting said rows and columns and electrically isolating the same from one another both laterally and in the direction of pressure application. 5. A tactile sensor according to claim 1 wherein said control means includes multiplexing circuit means adapted to be connected to the emitter electrode means for applying thereto in a selected one of said sites a positive voltage potential and for simultaneously applying a lower voltage potential to its companion and adjacent collector electrode means. 6. A tactile sensor for identifying the locations of pressures applied substantially contemproaneously thereto at a plurality of locations thereon, comprising; a series of sensing sites arranged in a predetermined pattern; one of said sites including first current emitter means, and first current collector means surrounding said first current emitter means; another of said sensing sites including second current emitter means spaced laterally from said first current emitter means, and second current collector means surrounding said current emitter means; a resilient platen having an obverse contact surface and a reverse surface; flexible conductive means on said reverse surface of said platen cooperating therewith to provide microprotrusions transverse thereto, said conductive means engaging said current emitter and collector means and providing a portion of a circuit the resistance of which varies inversely with pressure applied across the conductive means; mounting means extending along the reverse surface of said platen for mounting said first and second current collector means in laterally spaced electrically insulated relation to define through said flexible conductive means a higher resistance to current flow between said first emitter means and said second collector means and between said second emitter means and said first collector means than provided between either current emitter means and its companion current collector means; whereby substantially all of the current flowing into the flexible conductive means from one emitter means is collected in its companion collector means. 7. A tactile sensor according to claim 6 wherein said resilient platen includes a subtantially electrically non-conductive elastomeric member. 8. A tactile sensor according to claim 6 wherein said flexible conductive means is disposed in a continuous thin film over the area of said reverse surface engaged by said current emitter and collector means. 9. A tactile sensor according to claim 6 wherein said first current emitter means includes a series of current emitters arranged in a predetermined pattern and said first current collector means surrounds each of said current emitters in said pattern. 10. A tactile sensor according to claim 6 wherein said first and second current emitter means includes first and second series of current emitters each arranged in a predetermined pattern, said first and second current collector means each extend in a perimeter around their respective series of current emitters, and said current collector means are separated from one another by said mounting means. 11. A tactile sensor according to claim 6 wherein said first and second current emitter means are arranged in columns, and including means extending laterally of said columns underneath said mounting means and electrically connecting in rows laterally adjacent emitters in each column. 12. A tactile sensor according to claim 11 wherein said columns and rows are straight and are disposed at an angle to each other. 13. A tactile sensor according to claim 11 wherein said columns are circular and said rows are disposed radially with respect thereto. 14. A tactile sensor according to claim 6 wherein said mounting means includes an electrically insulated panel extending along said platen in parallel relation. 15. A tactile sensor according to claim 6 including frame means connecting said platen to said mounting means and maintaining said emitter and collector means in continuous contact with said flexible conductive means. 16. A tactile sensor for generating a machine image of an object engaging and exerting pressures at a plurality of locations upon said sensor, comprising: an electrically substantially non-conductive elastomeric member having a top surface adapted to contact an object and a bottom surface; a flexible conductive layer on said bottom surface providing a plurality of microprotrusions transverse thereto, said conductive layer providing a portion of a circuit having an electrical resistance which varies inversely with pressure applied transversely thereto; an electrically insulated panel underlying said elastomeric member and having a topside and a bottomside; a first series of current emitter electrodes mounted in spaced relation in a first column on the topside of said panel; at least a second series of current emitter electrodes mounted in spaced relation on the topside of said panel in a second column extending alongside said first column; a first current collector means mounted on said panel in said first column and surrounding each of said emitter electrodes in said first column in coplanar relation therewith; at least a second current collector means mounted on said panel in said second column and surrounding each of said emitter electrodes in said second column in coplanar relation therewith; each of said emitter electrodes in said first and second columns being spaced laterally from their respective first and second collector means to provide electrical insulation therebetween; said first current collector means being spaced laterally from the second current collector means to provide electrical isolation therebetween; current supply means disposed in spaced rows on the underside of said panel transverse to said columns for supplying current to said current emitter electrodes in said columns; and frame means mounting said elastomeric member and panel in parallel relation with said emitter electrodes and said collector means engaged with said conductive layer; whereby substantially all of the current supplied to each current emitter electrode flows transversely into the conductive layer, laterally therethrough, and transversely into its companion current collector means when pressure is applied to the elastomeric member superadjacent thereto. 17. A tactile sensor according to claim 16 wherein said elastomeric member has an asperity on its bottom surface providing said microprotrusions. 18. A tactile sensor according to claim 16 wherein said conductive layer includes a continuous coating of electrically conductive elastomeric material. 19. A tactile sensor according to claim 16 wherein said elastomeric member includes soft natural rubber and said conductive layer includes an electrically conductive polyurethane having a thickness of less than about one mil. 20. A tactile sensor according to claim 16 wherein each electrode in said first and second series of current emitter electrodes is circular and said first and second collector means are linear and have circular holes surrounding said circular electrodes to provide a continuous annular insulated gap therebetween, and said first and second collector means extend in spaced parallel relation to provide a continuous elongate insulated gap therebetween. 21. A tactile sensor according to claim 16 wherein said emitter current supply means includes rows of conductive bus bars mounted on the bottomside of said panel in spaced parallel relation, and a series of pins extending transversely therefrom through the panel in electrical contact with the current emitter electrodes in each laterally adjacent column. 22. A tactile sensor according to claim 21 wherein said current emitter electrodes, collector means and bus bars are plated onto opposite sides of said panel, and said pins include plated walls defining through holes in the panel at the junction of the emitter electrodes with the bus bars. 23. A tactile sensor according to claim 16 wherein each of said collector means continuously surrounds each emitter electrode of a corresponding one of said columns. 24. A tactile sensor according to claim 16 wherein said current emitter electrodes are located on center to center spacings of less than about 10 mils. 25. A tactile sensor according to claim 16 wherein said emitter electrodes are arranged in a density in excess of about 150 per square inch. 26. Apparatus for use in providing a machine image of an object, comprising: means providing a plurality of closely-spaced pressure sensing sites; each of said pressure sensing sites including: a current emitter electrode, and a companion current collector electrode surrounding and spaced from said emitter electrode, means electrically connecting a series of said emitter electrodes together in a row; means electrically connecting an array of said current collector electrodes together in a column disposed at an angle to said row; said emitter and collector electrode connecting means each being arranged with like rows and columns of connecting means; a resilient platen having a topside adapted to contact an object and an underside with a rough flexible electrically conductive layer engaging said emitter and collector electrodes; said layer providing along the platen between each emitter electrode and its companion collector electrode a resistance which is less than the resistance between each emitter electrode and adjacent non-companion collector electrodes; control means for applying to the current emitter electrodes in a selected row a predetermined positive voltage potential and for simultaneously applying to the current collector electrodes in a series of selected columns a lower voltage potential to cause, at each pressure-receiving site situated along said selected row, current flow through said layer from said emitter electrode to said collector electrode of said site, said current flow being proportional to the pressure applied to said layer engaging said electrodes of said site; said control means including multiplexing means for effecting said voltage application in a predetermined sequence among said columns and rows and said control means including means for sequentially monitoring said current flow in said columns and for identifying the locations of the applied pressure among said pressure sensing sites; whereby both location and magnitude of pressure applied to the platen by the object can be determined. 27. Apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said series of said selected columns includes columns located on at least laterally opposite sides of the monitored column. 28. Apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said control means also simultaneously applies said positive voltage potential to current emitter electrodes in rows immediately adjacent to said selected row. 29. Apparatus according to claim 26 wherein said control means includes amplifier means connected to said collector electrodes for causing said lower voltage potential to be held at virtual ground. 30. A method of producing a machine readable image of an object, comprising the steps of: applying pressure to the object with a sensor having a resilient platen with a pressure responsive conductive layer contacting a series of current emitter electrodes electrically connected in laterally spaced rows and surrounded by spaced current collector electrodes electrically connected in laterally spaced columns providing an array of sensing sites; applying to a selected one of said current emitter electrode rows a predetermined positive voltage potential and simultaneously applying to said collector electrode columns a lower voltage potential for causing current to flow from one emitter electrode in said selected row and through said layer only to an immediately adjacent current collector electrode in a selected column; collecting substantially all of said current flow from said collector electrode of said selected column; and repeating said voltage applying step periodically among said rows and columns and periodically repeating said current collecting step among selected ones of said columns to provide an electrical output related to the shape of the object and the pressure with which it engages the platen. 