TOF and color sensing detector structures have x-axis spaced-apart y-axis extending finger-shaped gate structures with adjacent source collection regions. X-dimension structures are smaller than y-dimension structure and govern performance, characterized by high x-axis electric fields and rapid charge movement, contrasted with lower y-axis electric fields and slower charge movement. Preferably a potential barrier is implanted between adjacent gates and a bias gate is formed intermediate a gate and associated source region. For color detection sensor devices, gate bias voltage signals V.sub.A, V.sub.B coupled to the finger-shaped gate structures are high during sub-integration periods t.sub.1 and are low during a shorter charge movement period t.sub.2. In one embodiment, alternate finger-shaped gate structures preferable have different high magnitude sub-integration period voltages that enable detected ambient optical energy of different wavelengths to be discerned. Resultant detector structures can be operated at the more extreme gate voltages that are desirable for high performance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method to determine at least one spectral characteristic of multi-spectral optical energy, the method comprising the following steps: (a) subjecting to multi-spectral optical energy, a CMOS optical energy detector having at least one gate and an associated charge collection source region from which an output detection signal is obtainable responsive to said multi-spectral optical energy, wherein a spectral response of said detector varies dynamically as a function of voltage coupled to said gate; (b) collecting from said detector at least two output detection signals generated responsive to detected said multi-spectral optical energy; (c) determining from said at least two output detection signals at least one spectral characteristic of said multi-spectral optical energy. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein collecting at step (b) includes sequentially using at least first and second output detection signals generated by at least a single source region. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein collecting at step (b) occurs simultaneously for each said source region output detection signal. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) includes altering magnitude of said voltage coupled to said at least one gate, wherein movement of charge to said source region is altered. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) includes periodically altering magnitude of said voltage coupled to said at least one gate, wherein movement of charge to said source region is altered. 6. A system to determine at least one spectral characteristic of multi-spectral optical energy, the system including: a CMOS optical energy detector, subjectable to said multi-spectral ambient optical energy, having at least one gate and an associated charge collection source region from which an output detection signal is obtainable, wherein a spectral response of said detector varies as a function of voltage coupled to said gate; means for collecting from said detector at least two output detection signals generated responsive to detected said multi-spectral optical energy; and means for determining from said at least two output detection signals at least one spectral characteristic of said multi-spectral optical energy. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said means for collecting collects sequentially using uses at least first and second output detection signals generated by a single source region. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein said means for collecting collects simultaneously for each said source region output detection signal. 9. The system of claim 6, further including means for altering magnitude of said voltage coupled to said gate structure, wherein movement of charge to said source region is altered. 10. The system of claim 6, wherein said means for altering varies magnitude of said voltage periodically, wherein movement of charge to said source region is altered. 11. A CMOS-implementable semiconductor photodetector useable in a system that illuminates a target with optical energy having a modulated periodic waveform that includes a high frequency component, generated in response to signal provided by a clock generator, and that detects a fraction of said optical energy reflected by said target with at least one said semiconductor photodetector, said photodetector comprising: a semiconductor substrate having a surface upon which said incoming optical energy can impinge onto an optical energy sensitive region, said surface defining an x-direction and a y-direction; at least a first elongate-shaped polysilicon gate disposed on said surface parallel to said y-direction, said first gate coupleable to a periodic first bias clock signal, synchronously generated by said clock generator, that is periodically high during a first bias regime to detect charge beneath said first gate generated by at least a fraction of said incoming optical energy, and is periodically low otherwise; a first source region formed in said substrate adjacent a distal end of said first gate; at least a second elongate-shaped polysilicon gate disposed on said surface parallel to said first elongate-shaped gate and spaced-apart in said x-direction a distance substantially shorter than a length of either said gate, said second gate coupleable to a periodic second bias clock signal synchronously generated by said clock generator, said periodic second bias clock signal being periodically high during a second bias regime to detect charge beneath said second gate generated by at least a fraction of said incoming optical energy, and is low otherwise; a second source region formed in said substrate adjacent a distal end of said second gate; wherein a majority of optically generated charge generated in said photodetector during said first bias regime is directed to said first source region, and a majority of optically generated charge generated in said photodetector during said second bias regime is directed to said second source region. 12. A CMOS-implementable optical energy detector to detect multi-spectral incoming optical energy to determine therefrom at least one spectral characteristic of said multi-spectral optical energy, said detector comprising: a semiconductor substrate having a surface upon which incoming said multi-spectral optical energy can impinge onto an optical energy sensitive region; at least one gate formed on said substrate having an associated charge collection source region from which an output detection signal is obtainable responsive to said incoming multi-spectral optical energy; means for coupling voltage to said at least one gate; wherein a spectral response of said detector varies dynamically as a function of said voltage coupled to said gate; wherein collection of at least two output detection signals generated by said detector responsive to detected said multi-spectral optical energy enables determination of at least one spectral characteristic of said multi-spectral optical energy. 13. The detector of claim 12, wherein said collection of at least two output detection signals occurs sequentially for each said source region output detection signal. 14. The detector of claim 12, wherein said collection of at least two output detection signals occurs simultaneously for each said source region output detection signal. 15. The detector of claim 12, wherein movement of charge to said source region alters in response to changes in magnitude of said voltage coupled to said at least one gate. 16. The detector of claim 12, wherein movement of charge to said source region alters in response to periodic changes in magnitude of said voltage coupled to said at least one gate. 