Wire carrier and loading apparatus for use with a robot-arm-manipulated wire routing tool in the fabrication of wire harnesses. The wire carrier assembly and associated drive assembly include means for jointly grasping the end of the wire as it is inserted into the wire carrier and winding the wire onto the spool of the carrier.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus comprising: a wire carrier assembly having a wire-carrying spool, a shroud and a shroud retainer; said spool comprising a hollow cylinder having a first end and a second end and a longitudinal opening extending throughout the wall thereof, a disk-shaped base plate concentrically disposed at said first end of said cylinder and having a tubular hub extending coaxially through and beyond said second end of said cylinder, said base plate further having an arcuate slot therethrough adjacent the interior surface of said wall of said hollow cylinder and spanning said opening in said cylinder, said base plate further having a drive pin hole therethrough and located within the radius of said arcuate slot; said shroud comprising a circular cover having a mounting hole at the center thereof and a rim extending from a side thereof, said rim having a wire insertion and dispensing port therethrough, said hub on said base plate of said spool extending through said mounting hole in said shroud; said shroud retainer comprising a ring positioned over the distal end of said tubular hub of said base plate. 2. Apparatus as defined in claim 1 and further comprising wire carrier registration means disposed on said rim of said shroud. 3. Apparatus as defined in claim 2 and further comprising: a wire loading drive assembly engaging said wire carrier assembly, said wire loading drive assembly comprising: a disk-shaped slip plate and a disk-shaped rotor; said slip plate having a central hole, a drive pin engaging said drive pin hole in said base plate of said spool, and an arcuate slot therethrough of substantially the same radius and length as said arcuate slot in said base plate of said spool; said rotor having a central shaft projecting through said central hole in said slip plate and engaging said tubular hub on said spool, and a wire retaining pin projecting therefrom through said arcuate slot in said slip plate and through said arcuate slot in said base of said spool. 4. Apparatus as defined in claim 3 wherein the wall thickness of said hollow cylinder of said spool is enlarged adjacent said opening in said cylinder to provide wire bearing surfaces. 5. Apparatus as defined in claim 4 and further comprising: means for applying a frictional force to said slip plate. 