A robotic cleaning device having a main body with a controllable drive device to move the device over a surface, a cleaning device to clean the surface, an obstacle detecting device, and a control device connected to the drive device and the obstacle detecting device. The main body has a left wall connecting a front end portion with a left rear end portion and a right wall connecting the front end portion with a right rear end portion. The control device receives information from the obstacle detecting device about a detected obstacle and controls the drive device to rotate the device around a main left-turn axis at the left rear end portion or a main right-turn axis at the right rear end portion, such that the device turns one around one of the axes. The side walls are configured such that the device clears the obstacle by the turning motion.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic cleaning device, comprising: a main body, which accommodates: controllable drive means arranged to move the device over a surface, cleaning means arranged to clean the surface when the device is moved over the surface, obstacle detecting means, and a control device connected to the drive means and the obstacle detecting means, wherein the main body has a left side wall connecting a front end portion with a left rear end portion and a right side wall connecting the front end portion with a right rear end portion, the control device, when receiving information from the obstacle detecting means about a detected obstacle, is arranged to control the drive means to rotate the device around one of a main left-turn axis located where a left non-pivotable support wheel located at the left rear end portion contacts the surface, and a main right-turn axis located where a right non-pivotable support wheel located at the right rear end portion contacts the surface, such that the device performs substantially only turning motion round the one of said axes, wherein the left side wall and the right side wall are configured such that the device is moved clear of the detected obstacle by said turning motion; and wherein wherein at least a major portion of the left side wall is shaped as a circular arc having a first centre of curvature that coincides with the main right-turn axis, and at least a major portion of the right side wall is shaped as a circular arc having a first centre of curvature that coincides with the surface, within a circular arc having a second centre of curvature that coincides with the main left-turn axis, and wherein the maximum distance from the first centre of curvature to the left side wall is located proximal to the front end portion of the main body, and the maximum distance from the second centre of curvature to the right side wall is located proximal to the front end portion of the main body. 2. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 1, wherein the left side wall and the right side wall are substantially isosceles sides having a vertex at the front end portion. 3. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 1, wherein the left side wall and the right side wall are convex. 4. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 3, wherein the main body has a rear side wall connecting the right rear end portion with the left rear end portion, which rear side wall is convex. 5. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 4, wherein at least a major portion of the rear side wall is shaped as a circular arc having a centre of curvature located in the front end portion. 6. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 1, wherein the main body has a general overall shape of a triangular block, preferably an equilateral triangular block. 7. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 1, wherein the drive means includes a steerable drive wheel, and wherein the control means is arranged to control the drive means by steering the steerable drive wheel. 8. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 7, wherein the steerable drive wheel is mounted in front of an axis between the main left-turn axis and the main right-turn axis, preferably at the front end portion. 9. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 8, wherein at least a major portion, preferably more than 80%, of the weight of the device is carried by the steering wheel. 10. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 1, wherein the cleaning means comprises a vacuum device. 11. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 10, wherein the vacuum device includes a suction slit which extends from the left rear end portion to the right rear end portion over substantially the whole breadth of the main body. 12. A robotic cleaning device, comprising: a body; controllable drive means connected to the body and arranged to move the device over a surface; a vacuum fan and motor assembly mounted in the body and fluidly connected to a suction opening located on a lower side of the body to face the surface; one or more obstacle detecting sensors connected to the body; and a control system operatively connected to the drive means and the obstacle detecting means; wherein the control means, when receiving information from the obstacle detecting means about a detected obstacle, is arranged to control the drive means to rotate the device around one of a main left-turn axis located at a left rear end portion of the body and a main right-turn axis located at a right rear end portion of the body, such that the device performs substantially only turning motion round the one of said axes, and wherein the main body has a left side wall connecting a front end portion with the left rear end portion and a right side wall connecting the front end portion with the right rear end portion, and wherein at least a major portion of the left side wall is shaped as a circular arc having a centre of curvature that coincides with the main right-turn axis, at least a major portion of the right side wall is shaped as a circular arc having a centre of curvature that coincides with the main left-turn axis, and the left side wall and the right side wall are configured such that the device is moved clear of the detected obstacle by said turning motion; wherein the drive means includes a steerable drive wheel located at the front end portion of the main body, a left non-pivotable support wheel located in the left rear end portion and a right non-pivotable support wheel located in the right rear end portion, and wherein the control system is arranged to control the drive means by steering the steerable drive wheel wherein the main left-turn axis is located at a point where the left support wheel contacts the surface, and the main right-turn axis is located at a point where the right support wheel contacts the surface. 13. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 12, wherein the steerable drive wheel is mounted in front of an axis between the main left-turn axis and the main right-turn axis. 14. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 12, wherein at least a major portion of the weight of the device is carried by the steering wheel. 15. The robotic cleaning device according to claim 14, wherein at least 80% of the weight of the device is carried by the steering wheel. 