One embodiment includes a dry adhesive material including catechol chemically attached to the surface of a shape memory polymer molecule. The catechol content may allow the dry adhesive to be utilized in both dry and wet conditions to bond objects together. The shape memory polymer may allow the dry adhesive to be reversibly attached to the objects.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: providing a first substrate and a second substrate; forming a shape memory polymer adhesive system comprising a shape memory polymer material having a plurality of catechol surface groups, said shape memory polymer adhesive system transformable from a permanent shape to a temporary shape; transforming said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape; and coupling said first substrate to said second substrate with said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein transforming said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape comprises: transforming said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape by heating said shape memory polymer adhesive system to a first temperature under a load, said first temperature being above the glass transition temperature of said shape memory polymer substrate material; cooling said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape below said first temperature; and removing said load; wherein at least a portion of said plurality of catechol surface groups are more accessible to said first substrate or more accessible to said second substrate when said shape memory polymer adhesive system is in said temporary shape than in said permanent shape. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: uncoupling said first substrate from said second substrate by heating said shape memory polymer adhesive system above said first temperature in the absence of said load. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein forming a shape memory polymer adhesive system comprises: forming a shape memory polymer; and forming a plurality of catechol surface groups on said shape memory polymer material. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein forming a shape memory polymer backbone and forming a plurality of catechol surface groups on said shape polymer memory material comprises: copolymerizing 3, 4 dimethoxystyrene with divinyl benzene in a benzoyl peroxide initiator to produce a crosslinked polymer having 3, 4 dimethoxyl benzene on its surface; converting one or more methoxy groups of said crosslinked polymer into dihydroxy groups by immersing said crosslinked polymer in a boron tribromide solution; immersing said crosslinked polymer having said one or more dihydroxy groups in acidic water; and rinsing said crosslinked polymer in deionized water. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein forming a shape memory polymer material and forming a plurality of catechol surface groups on said shape polymer memory comprises: forming a crosslinked epoxy material; coupling a branched polyethyleneimine material to said crosslinked epoxy material to form a polyethyleneimine grafted epoxy shape memory polymer material; copolymerizing 3, 4 dimethoxystyrene in a benzoyl peroxide initiator to produce a crosslinked polymer having 3, 4 dimethoxyl benzene on its surface; dissolving said crosslinked polymer in dichloromethane; and dipping said polyethyleneimine grafted epoxy shape memory polymer material in an aqueous solution of said crosslinked polymer. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein forming a shape memory polymer material and forming at least one catechol surface group on said shape polymer memory material comprises: mixing piperonulamine with a diepoxide and a multiamine curing agent to form a mixture; curing said mixture to form a crosslinked polymer having a plurality of acetal structures; and converting said plurality of acetal structures to a plurality of hydroxyl structures. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein forming a shape memory polymer material and forming at least one catechol surface group on said shape polymer memory material comprises: forming a crosslinked epoxy material; coupling a branched polyethyleneimine material to said crosslinked epoxy material to form a polyethyleneimine grafted epoxy shape memory polymer material; dipping said polyethyleneimine grafted epoxy shape memory polymer material in a water solution containing piperonylic acid to form a treated crosslinked shape memory polymer structure; heating said treated crosslinked shape memory polymer structure to form a crosslinked shape memory polymer having a plurality of acetal structures; and converting said plurality of acetal structures to a plurality of hydroxyl structures. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein coupling said first substrate to said second substrate with said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape comprises: coupling said first substrate to at least one of said plurality of catechol side chains of said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape; and coupling said second substrate to at least another one of said plurality of catechol side chains of said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape. 10. A method comprising: providing a first substrate; forming a shape memory polymer adhesive system comprising a shape memory polymer substrate material having one or more catechol surface groups, said shape memory polymer adhesive system transformable from a permanent shape to a temporary shape comprising; transforming said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape, wherein said one or more catechol surface groups are more accessible to said first substrate in said temporary shape; and coupling said first substrate to said one or more catechol surface groups of said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein transforming said shape memory polymer adhesive system from said permanent shape to said temporary shape comprises: heating said shape memory polymer adhesive system to a first temperature under a load, said first temperature being above the glass transition temperature of said shape memory polymer substrate material; cooling said shape memory polymer adhesive system in said temporary shape below said first temperature; and removing said load; wherein at least a portion of said one or more of catechol surface groups are more accessible to said first substrate when said shape memory polymer adhesive system is in said temporary shape than in said permanent shape. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein forming a shape memory polymer adhesive system comprises: copolymerizing 3, 4 dimethoxystyrene with divinyl benzene in a benzoyl peroxide initiator to produce a crosslinked polymer having 3, 4 dimethoxyl benzene on its surface; converting one or more methoxy groups of said crosslinked polymer into dihydroxy groups by immersing said crosslinked polymer in a boron tribromide solution; immersing said crosslinked polymer having said one or more dihydroxy groups in acidic water; and rinsing said crosslinked polymer in deionized water. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein forming a shape memory polymer adhesive system comprises: forming a crosslinked epoxy material; coupling a branched polyethyleneimine material to said crosslinked epoxy material to form a polyethyleneimine grafted epoxy shape memory polymer material; copolymerizing 3, 4 dimethoxystyrene in a benzoyl peroxide initiator to produce a crosslinked polymer having 3, 4 dimethoxyl benzene on its surface; dissolving said crosslinked polymer in dichloromethane; and dipping said polyethyleneimine grafted epoxy shape memory polymer material in an aqueous solution of said crosslinked polymer. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein forming a shape memory polymer adhesive system comprises: mixing piperonulamine with a diepoxide and a multiamine curing agent to form a mixture; curing said mixture to form a crosslinked polymer having a plurality of acetal structures; and converting said plurality of acetal structures to a plurality of hydroxyl structures. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein forming a shape memory polymer adhesive system comprises: forming a crosslinked epoxy material; coupling a branched polyethyleneimine material to said crosslinked epoxy material to form a polyethyleneimine grafted epoxy shape memory polymer material; dipping said polyethyleneimine grafted epoxy shape memory polymer material in a water solution containing piperonylic acid to form a treated crosslinked shape memory polymer structure; heating said treated crosslinked shape memory polymer structure to form a crosslinked shape memory polymer having a plurality of acetal structures; and converting said plurality of acetal structures to a plurality of hydroxyl structures. 