An aluminum-boron-carbon (ABC) ceramic-metal composite bonded to a metal or metal-ceramic composite other than ABC composite is made by forming a porous body comprised of particulates being comprised of a boron-carbon compound that has a particulate layer of titanium diboride powder on the surface of the porous body. The porous body is infiltrated with aluminum or alloy thereof resulting in the simultaneous infiltration of the TiB.sub.2 layer, where the layer has an aluminum metal content that is at least about 10 percentage points greater by volume than the (ABC) composite. The ABC composite is then fused to a metal or metal-ceramic body through the infiltrated layer of titanium diboride, wherein the metal-ceramic body is a composite other than an aluminum-boron-carbon composite.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of bonding an aluminum-boron-carbon ceramic-metal composite comprising, a) forming a porous body comprised of particulates being comprised of a boron-carbon compound, b) forming a particulate layer of titanium diboride powder on a surface of the porous body, c) infiltrating the porous body with the particulate layer with aluminum or alloy thereof such that the aluminum-boron-carbon composite is formed such that the particulate layer is infiltrated with the aluminum or alloy thereof and bonded to the composite, wherein the particulate layer has an aluminum metal content that is at least about 10 percentage points greater by volume than the composite, and d) fusing the aluminum-boron-carbon composite to a metal or metal-ceramic body through the infiltrated particulate layer of titanium diboride, wherein the metal-ceramic body is a composite other than an aluminum-boron-carbon composite. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the fusing is performed by welding, brazing or combination thereof. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the fusing is performed by ultrasonic welding. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the metal or metal-ceramic body fused to the aluminum-boron-carbon composite is the metal. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the metal is aluminum, aluminum alloy or ferrous metal. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the metal is the ferrous metal. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the ferrous metal is steel or cast iron. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the infiltrated layer of titanium diboride has an interface with the aluminum-boron-carbon composite and an interface with the metal or metal-ceramic body, wherein the aluminum metal content of the infiltrated layer at the aluminum-boron-carbon composite interface is 3/4 of the volume of the aluminum metal at the metal or metal-ceramic body interface. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the metal content of the titanium diboride particulate infiltrated layer is at least about 20% percentage points greater by volume than the metal content of the aluminum-boron-carbon composite. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the particulate layer of titanium diboride is formed on only a portion of the surface of the porous body. 11. The method of claim 10, where the aluminum or alloy thereof is contacted and infiltrated into the porous body through a surface without the titanium diboride layer. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the titanium diboride powder has a free carbon content of at most about 1% by weight. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the titanium diboride powder has a total metals impurities of at most about 0.5% by weight. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the titanium diboride powder has an oxygen content of at most about 1% by weight. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein infiltrating is performed by contacting the porous body with a solid aluminum or alloy thereof on a surface of the porous body and heating to a temperature of 1000.degree. C. to 1200.degree. C. under an inert atmosphere or vacuum. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the surface of the porous body contacted by the solid aluminum or alloy thereof is a surface without the titanium diboride particulate layer. 