In accordance with the present invention, a tactile sensor capable of detecting shear force comprises an anisotropically conductive material disposed between a conductive cursor and an array of contacts. In one preferred embodiment, the anisotropic material is affixed to the contact array, and the cursor is affixed to an elastomeric skin overlying the material. Movement of the cursor is detected by interconnection of the contacts underlying the cursor. In a second embodiment, the anisotropic material is affixed to the cursor but is free to move over the contact array in response to shear force. Movement of the cursor is detected by interconnection of the underlying contacts. Such arrangements can also detect pressure and temperature.
Claims We claim: 1. A sensor capable of detecting shear force comprising: an array of conductive electrical contacts disposed on a non-conducting substrate; a layer of anisotropically conductive material disposed overlying said array of contacts; and a conductive cursor attached to an elastomeric layer movable in response to the application of shear force, said cursor positioned and dimensioned to interconnect at least a pair of said electrical contacts through said anisotropic conductive material. 2. A sensor according to claim 1 wherein said layer of anisotropic conductive material comprises a layer of non-magnetic matrix material having a pair of major surfaces and a plurality of columns of magnetic particles extending between said major surfaces. 3. A sensor according to claim 1 wherein said layer of anisotropically conductive material is fixed to said substrate. 4. A sensor according to claim 1 wherein said layer of anisotropic conductive material is fixed to said substrate and said cursor is fixed to an elastomeric layer overlying said anisotropic conductive layer. 5. A sensor according to claim 1 wherein lubricating material is disposed between said elastomeric layer and said anisotropic conductive layer. 6. A sensor according to claim 1 wherein said layer of anisotropic conductive material is an elastomeric material which can be elastically moved over said array of contacts and said cursor is attached to said layer of anisotropic conductive material. 7. A sensor according to claim 6 wherein lubricating material is disposed between said layer of anisotropic material and said substrate. 8. A sensor according to claim 2 wherein said anisotropic conductive layer has a thickness in the range 10-500 micrometers and said magnetic particles have diameters in the range 10-500 micrometers. 9. A sensor according to claim 2 wherein said non-magnetic matrix material comprises a material chosen from the group consisting of epoxy, glass, silicone, and polyurethane. 10. A sensor according to claim 2 wherein said magnetic particles comprise particles of material chosen from the group consisting of Fe, Ni, Co, Ni.sub.80 Fe.sub.20, SmCo.sub.5, Nd.sub.2 Fe.sub.14 B, and ferrites. 