A method and an apparatus for determining the operability of a semiconductor chip including at least one bond between the semiconductor chip and at least one electrical lead, the at least one electrical lead having a first surface, the at least one bond connecting the first surface to the semiconductor chip. The apparatus has a handling carrier rigidly supporting the semiconductor chip, a test socket containing the handling carrier for providing an electrical path from the test socket to the at least one electrical lead and through the at least one bond to the semiconductor chip and back, and a computer for applying an electrical signal to the electrical path for generating an output signal. A gas nozzle is provided, positionable near the first surface, for directing a gas flow at the first surface while an electrical signal is applied. The gas flow generates a force on the electrical lead in a direction away from the semiconductor chip. The computer compares the output signal with a predetermined, characteristic signal to determine operability of the semiconductor chip.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for determining the operability of a semiconductor chip including at least one bond between the semiconductor chip and at least one electrical lead, the at least one electrical lead having a first surface, the at least one bond connecting the first surface to the semiconductor chip, the apparatus comprising: a handling carrier rigidly supporting the semiconductor chip; a test socket for containing the handling carrier and for providing an electrical path from the test socket to the at least one electrical lead and through the at least one bond to the semiconductor chip and back; means for applying an electrical signal to the electrical path for generating an output signal; a gas nozzle, positionable near the first surface for directing a gas flow at the first surface while an electrical signal is applied to the electrical path, the gas nozzle for generating a force on the electrical lead in a direction away from the semiconductor chip; and means for comparing the output signal with a predetermined, characteristic signal for determining operability of the semiconductor chip and at least one bond. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a load board electrically connecting the comparing means to the test socket. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the gas flow includes air. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the at least one electrical lead includes a plurality of electrical leads. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising: means for sequentially positioning the gas nozzle from one of the plurality of electrical leads to the next. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the gas flow is continuous. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: means operatively connected to the gas nozzle for directing the gas flow at a predetermined flow rate for a predetermined time interval. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the applying means is a computer. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the comparing means is a computer. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the comparing means is included within a computer. 11. A method for testing the operability of a semiconductor chip including at least one bond between the semiconductor chip and at least one electrical lead, the at least one electrical lead having a first surface, and the at least one bond connecting the first surface to the semiconductor chip, the test comprising the steps of: mounting the semiconductor chip to a support to fixedly hold the semiconductor chip during testing; establishing an electrical path to the at least one electrical lead and through the at least one bond to the semiconductor chip and back; applying an electrical signal through the electrical path generating an output signal; positioning a gas nozzle a predetermined distance from the at least one electrical lead near the first surface; directing a gas flow at the first surface to generate a force on the electrical lead in a direction away from the semiconductor chip; and comparing the output signal with a predetermined, characteristic signal to determine operability of the semiconductor chip and the at least one bond. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one electrical lead is a plurality of electrical leads, the method further comprising the step of: applying the gas pressure successively to each individual electrical lead of the plurality of electrical leads. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein: the gas flow is directed at the first surface of the at least one electrical lead at a predetermined gas pressure. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one electrical lead includes a plurality of electrical leads, the method further comprising the step of: sequentially positioning the gas nozzle from one of the plurality of electrical leads to the next. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein: the gas flow directed at the first surface is continuous. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein: the gas flow directed at the first surface is applied at a predetermined flow rate for a predetermined time interval. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein: a computer applies the electrical signal to the electrical path to generate the output signal. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein: the computer also compares the output signal with a predetermined, characteristic signal to determine operability of the at least one bond. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein: a computer compares the output signal with a predetermined, characteristic signal to determine operability of the at least one bond. 