Total analysis systems and methods for simultaneously monitoring a suite of biological and/or chemical species in water and/or other process systems are disclosed. The system provides a sample-volume controlled sensor array comprising a fluid delivery device and a plurality of optical sensor elements for determining the presence and total concentrations of multiple analytes in the process system simultaneously. Delivery means are provided to deliver a metered quantity of sample fluid to the sensor array. Image identification algorithms are provided for identifying the analytes based on image intensity, color pattern, positional arrangement, and the like. The methods incorporate multivariate optimization algorithms to analyze multiple sensor responses. This produces analytical results that are typically difficult to obtain without full system or variable compensation. The improved array response may then be utilized to measure, monitor, and control the concentration of analytes in the chemical or biological sample or water system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for simultaneously measuring a plurality of biological or chemical analytes in a fluid, said method comprising the steps of: providing a substrate comprising a plurality of sensor elements, each said sensor element responding to at least one of said plurality of analytes; providing at least one light source for directing light onto said sensor elements; providing a delivery device having a plurality of reservoirs in communication with said sensor elements, said delivery device comprising a single sample entry port in fluid communication with a plurality of fluidic channels, said channels directly connecting said sample entry port to said reservoirs, wherein the delivery device meters and delivers a controlled volume of said fluid between the sample entry port and the reservoirs, and said delivery device further comprising a cover layer having a plurality of vent holes having hydrophobic walls disposed above said reservoirs, said cover layer further having a hydrophilic bottom surface for providing a hydrophilic roof portion above said reservoirs to facilitate transport of said fluid to said reservoirs; delivering a sample fluid to the single sample entry port of the delivery device; drawing sample fluid through said fluidic channels with the hydrophilic bottom surface to fill said reservoirs with sample fluid; venting air from the delivery device through the vent holes; impeding sample fluid from flowing though the vent holes and escaping the reservoirs with the hydrophobic walls of the vent holes to thereby deliver a metered quantity of said sample fluid to each of said sensor elements with said delivery device; detecting a response from said sensor elements; recording said response into a digital record; processing said digital record; and utilizing said digital record to determine a concentration of each said analyte in said fluid. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said substrate is a single formed structure comprising a plurality of reservoirs, a sample entry port, and a plurality of fluidic channels connecting the entry port to said reservoirs, said method further comprising the step of providing a cover layer adapted to cover said reservoirs, wherein said sensor elements are disposed within said reservoirs or on a bottom surface of said cover layer. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of separating said delivery device from said substrate after a metered quantity of fluid has been delivered to each said sensor element by the delivery device. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of removing excess fluid from said delivery device after said delivering step, wherein said substrate is a DVD, CD, Super-audio CD, double-layer, or blu-ray disk. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said delivery device further comprises an o-ring operatively associated with said entry port, said o-ring being adapted to absorb excess fluid that spills over the top of said delivery device. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing a disk case for enclosing said substrate, wherein said substrate is a DVD, CD, Super-audio CD, double-layer, or blu-ray disk. 7. The method of claim 4, further comprising the step of providing a blotting layer to remove excess fluid from said substrate. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said delivering step comprises providing a delivery device mounted to said substrate, said delivery device comprising a plurality of reservoirs communicating with said sensor elements, said reservoirs being adapted to receive a sample volume of said fluid when said device is dipped in said fluid, said reservoirs being adapted to maintain said sample volume in said reservoirs by way of surface tension when said device is removed from said fluid. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein introducing the sample into the delivery device comprises filling each reservoir by accumulating liquid over the top hydrophilic surface, wherein gravitational force enables the liquid to reach a bottom wall of the reservoir and then capillary force originated from side walls of the reservoir drives the liquid to fill the entire reservoir. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein as the reservoir completely fills, the vent hole serves as a capillary barrier, impeding the sample liquid from flowing through the vent hole to reach the hydrophobic outer surface of the cover layer. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the metered quantities of fluid are delivered to said sensor elements through fluidic channels that have hydrophobic sidewalls and a roof portion with a hydrophilic coating. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the metered quantities of fluid are delivered to said sensor elements through fluidic channels that have a hydrophilic roof portion that is formed by applying a hydrophilic adhesive-coated film to the bottom surface of the cover layer. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the metered quantities of fluid are delivered to said sensor elements with a delivery device made from a material selected from the group consisting of poly (ethylene) terephthalate, polycarbonate, polystyrene, poly (methyl) methacrylate, polyethylene, polypropylene, nylon, and ABS such that the sidewalls have contact angles with water ranging from about 65 degrees to about 90 degrees and the roof portion formed by the coated bottom surface of the cover layer has a contact angle with water of less than 30 degrees. 