A rotary actuator suitable for a robotic arm or servo drive, which is capable of large loads and large speed reductions is disclosed. The device includes an input shaft that drives an epicyclic transmission integral with the articulation. The transmission is contained in a fixed arm housing and an end housing. An input shaft has eccentrics that rotate two primary external spur gears which are engaged with two primary internal gears. The two primary external gears are fastened on both faces of the external secondary gear. The external primary gears and external secondary gear rotate about the axis of an eccentric, and orbit the input shaft axis. A secondary external gear transmits its rotary motion to an internal secondary gear affixed to an output arm. Large speed reductions are possible due to the differential action of the primary and secondary gears.
Claims I claim: 1. A rotary actuator, comprising: an input shaft; a fixed arm housing journaled for said input shaft; an end housing journaled for said input shaft; a counterweight formed integrally with said input shaft; two eccentrics formed integrally with said input shaft and located on either face of said counterweight and 180 degrees out of phase with said counterweight; two external primary gears journaled for rotation about said eccentrics; an external secondary gear formed integrally with said external primary gears sandwiched between said two external primary gears for rotation about said eccentric; two internal primary gears are meshed with two said external primary gears; said two internal primary gears are integral to said fixed arm housing and said end housing; an internal secondary gear is meshed with said external secondary gear; said internal secondary gears whose teeth are integral to an output arm. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein input shaft bearings journal said input shaft. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein eccentric bearings journal said eccentrics. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein said external primary gears and said external secondary gear are separate elements and are fastened by external gear fasteners. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein said internal secondary gear is a separate element and is fastened to said output arm. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein said internal primary gears are separate elements and are mounted in said fixed arm housing and said end housing. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein an electric motor drives said input shaft. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein said primary external gears have a smaller pitch diameter than said secondary external gear pitch diameter. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein said primary external gears have a larger pitch diameter than said secondary external gear pitch diameter. 