A coupling device includes a first support member which is connected to the arm of a robot and which supports a second support member for precision universal tilting and axial and/or rotary movement from an aligned normal position. The second support member supports robotic tooling, and a set of springs or springs and ball members or fluid actuated piston bias the support members to the normal position. An electrical control circuit is effective to stop movement of the robot arm in response to minute tilting or axial or rotary movement of the second support member in the event the tooling or article carried by the tooling is accidentally hit or overloaded. A set of semi-circular rings and auxiliary springs are attached to the support members for producing a substantial biasing force towards the normal position, and a set of construction balls and corresponding seats are used to establish a precision normal position.
Claims The invention having thus been described, the following is claimed: 1. A robot assembly for moving tooling along a predetermined path, comprising an arm, means supporting said arm for predetermined vertical and horizontal movement, a safety coupling connecting said tooling to said arm to protect against inadvertent damage to said robot and/or said tooling and to minimize down time of said robot, said coupling including a first support member, means for securing said first support member to said arm of said robot, a second support member, means for securing said second support member to said tooling, means connecting said first and second support members and providing for relative universal tilting movement between said first and second support member from a normal position where said first support member is aligned on an axis with said second support member, said connecting means including plurality of at least three pin members secured to one of said support members and spaced angularly about said axis, said pin members projecting outwardly in a spoke-like manner from said one support member with each said pin member having a radial axis and an outer end portion, the other said support member having means defining a corresponding plurality of cavities receiving said outer end portions of said pin members for relative movement within said cavities, seat members mounted on said other support member and forming a precision and positive stop surface within each of said cavities, stop members carried by said outer end portions of said pin members and engaging the corresponding said seat members when said first and second support member are axially aligned at said normal position, means for biasing said stop members against said seat members, said other support member being free to tilt relatively to each of said pin members and against said biasing means, said stop members being movable with said pin members within said cavities when said other support member tilts relative to said one support member, and control means responsive to said tilting movement for stopping the movement of said arm of said robot. 2. The assembly as defined in claim 1 wherein each of said stop member comprises a roller member supported by said outer end portion of the corresponding said pin member for rotation on said radial axis of said pin member. 3. The assembly as defined in claim 1 and including an electrical circuit with said seat members electrically connected in series with said stop members, and said circuit opens by separation of at least one of said seat members from the corresponding said stop member in response to relative tilting or axial movement between said support members. 4. The assembly as defined in claim 1 wherein said biasing means comprise a set of part-circular ring sections removably mounted on each of said support members and projecting radially outwardly therefrom, and a plurality of circumferentially spaced compression springs extending axially between said corresponding ring sections on said support members. 5. The assembly as defined in claim 4 and including a set of link members, and means for attaching said link members to corresponding said ring sections in one position for transporting the assembly of said ring sections and springs and in a second position connecting mating said ring sections after said ring sections are mounted on said support members. 6. The assembly as defined in claim 1 wherein both of said support members are annular and defined corresponding center openings, and said cavities and pin members are located outwardly of center openings. 7. The assembly as defined in claim 1 wherein said first and second support members comprise bodies of plastics material. 8. The assembly as defined in claim 1 wherein one of said securing means comprise rotary bearing means supporting the corresponding said support member for rotation in either direction from a home position, and spring means for torsionally biasing said support member to said home position. 9. The assembly as defined in claim 8 wherein said rotary bearing means comprise a first bearing plate secured to the corresponding said support member, a second bearing plate disposed adjacent said first bearing plate, a plurality of arcuate slots within one of said bearing plates, a corresponding plurality of springs within said slots, and a corresponding plurality of studs projecting from the other said bearing plate into said slot adjacent said springs. 10. The assembly as defined in claim 1 wherein said connecting means further include a set of three support element mounted on one of said support members in angularly spaced relation, means forming corresponding seats on the other said support member, and said support element project axially to engage said seats to defined said normal position. 