Shielded arc welding apparatus advances a consumable electrode towards a workpiece; applies a welding voltage between the electrode and the workpiece; and applies an auxiliary voltage between the electrode and the workpiece, whereby the auxiliary voltage initiates an arc between the electrode and the workpiece before the electrode engages the workpiece.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of shielded arc welding using a consumable electrode, said method comprising applying a welding voltage between said electrode and a workpiece; applying an auxiliary substantially constant unipolar voltage between said electrode and said workpiece; and advancing said electrode towards said workpiece, while said auxiliary voltage is applied, whereby said auxiliary voltage initiates an arc between said electrode and said workpiece before said electrode engages said workpiece. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said step of advancing said electrode commences shortly after said auxiliary voltage has been applied. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein said electrode is advanced at a speed in the range 20-100 mm/sec. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said auxiliary voltage lies in the range 400-1000 V. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein said auxiliary voltage lies in the range 600-750 V. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein said auxiliary voltage is applied in the form of a low frequency surge. 7. A method of shielded arc welding using a consumable electrode, said method comprising applying a welding voltage between said electrode and a workpiece; applying an auxiliary, unipolar voltage between said electrode and said workpiece; and advancing said electrode towards said workpiece while said auxiliary voltage is applied, wherein said magnitude of said auxiliary voltage generally increases from an initial value to a value at which an arc is initiated between said electrode and said workpiece, whereby said auxiliary voltage initiates said arc between said electrode and said workpiece before said electrode engages said workpiece. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein said rate of increase in said magnitude of said auxiliary voltage lies in the range of 1 kV in 0.1 seconds to 1 kV in 0.01 seconds. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein said magnitude of said auxiliary voltage increases exponentially. 10. A method according to claim 7, wherein said magnitude of said auxiliary voltage increases exponentially. 11. A method according to claim 7, wherein said step of advancing said electrode commences shortly after said auxiliary voltage has been applied. 12. A method according to claim 7, wherein said electrode is advanced at a speed in the range 20-100 mm/sec. 13. A method according to claim 7, wherein said auxiliary voltage lies in the range 400-1000 V. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein said auxiliary voltage lies in the range 600-750 V. 15. Shielded arc welding apparatus comprising means for advancing a consumable electrode towards a workpiece; means for applying a welding voltage between said electrode and said workpiece; and auxiliary voltage supply means for applying an auxiliary unipolar voltage between said electrode and said workpiece, said auxiliary voltage supply means being adapted to supply an auxiliary voltage which generally increases from an initial value to a value at which an arc is initiated between said electrode and said workpiece, whereby said auxiliary voltage initiates an arc between said electrode and said workpiece before said electrode engages said workpiece. 