Apparatus for grouping a number of units, such as packaging units, when palleting the units, comprising a feed belt for conveying the units (10) and a grouping belt, which defines a grouping plane, said feed and grouping belts being driven for movement parallel to one another, and a robot, which is designed to group the units by positioning and orienting the units on the grouping plane. At least one part of the feed belt (1) runs beside and adjacent to the grouping belt (2). The robot (3) is a multi-axial industrial robot having a robotic arm on which a pusher element (5) is arranged, rotatable about an axis (6) perpendicular to the grouping plane, in order to allow the transfer of at least one unit from the feed belt to the grouping belt under a pushing action supplied by the pushing element, together with orientation and positioning of the unit on the grouping belt.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for grouping and palletizing a number of packaging units, comprising: a feed belt for conveying the units; a grouping belt; said grouping belt defines a grouping plane; wherein said feed and grouping belts are driven for movement parallel to one another; a robot which groups the units by positioning and orienting the units on the grouping plane; wherein at least one part of the feed belt runs beside the grouping belt wherein the robot is a multi-axial industrial robot comprising a robotic arm on which a pusher element is arranged; wherein the pusher element is rotatable about an axis perpendicular to the grouping plane; wherein the rotation of the pusher element about said axis is independent of rotation about the other axes of the multi-axial industrial robot; wherein the pusher element allows the transfer of at least one unit from the feed belt to the grouping belt under a pushing action while orienting and positioning the unit on the grouping belt. 2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, comprising means for measuring the speed of the grouping belt, said means being connected to a control unit for the robot for controlling movements of the robot in relation to the speed of the grouping belt. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, comprising a detector, which is arranged next to the feed belt for detecting that a unit has assumed a predetermined position on the feed belt. 4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, comprising a suction device, which is arranged next to the pusher element for detachably holding at least one unit against the pusher element. 5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, comprising an arresting element, which is insertable into the moving path of the grouped units. 6. A method of grouping and palletizing a number of packaging units, comprising the steps of: conveying the units by means of a feed belt and a grouping belt; said grouping belt defines a grouping plane; wherein the grouping belt is driven to move parallel to the feed belt; wherein the units are grouped by means of a robot by positioning and orienting the units on the grouping plane; wherein the feed belt conveys the units beside the grouping belt; rotating a pusher element that is arranged on an arm of a multi-axial industrial robot about an axis perpendicular to the grouping plane; wherein rotation of the pusher element is independent of rotation about the other axes of the multi-axial industrial robot; and pushing by the pusher element at least one unit from the feed belt onto the grouping belt such that the pusher element orients and positions the unit on the grouping belt. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the movements of the robot are controlled in relation to the speed of the grouping belt. 8. The method as claimed in claim 6, comprising detecting that a unit has assumed a predetermined position on the feed belt. 9. The method as claimed in claim 6, comprising detachably holding at least one unit against the pusher element by means of a suction device. 10. The method as claimed in claim 6, comprising arresting the grouped units on the grouping belt by means of a movable arresting element whilst the grouping belt continues to be driven. 11. The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the grouping belt is driven at constant speed. 12. The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the feed belt is driven at constant speed. 