Provided are systems and methods of video collaboration. End-users may participate in collaboration sessions in which inter-personal barriers are rapidly dissolved through the completing of collaborative tasks. The end-users may be grouped into teams to perform these collaborative tasks, and may be scored and/or ranked based not only on performance of the task but on the interactions between team members. In some examples a coach or moderator is provided to assist with task completion and/or to facilitate social interaction between participants. According to various examples, system architectures are described for facilitating video collaboration. In one example, the architecture includes a multi-gateway architecture that segregates functions associated with presentation of an integrated video display from functions associated with transmission of display streams to devices associated with end-users.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for video-conferencing, the system comprising: a first video gateway computer system operative to format presentation of video content of a plurality of video streams to a plurality of end-users, the video content representing at least one aspect of a video collaboration session involving the plurality of end-users; a video conferencing computer system communicably coupled to the first video gateway computer system, the video conferencing computer system being operative: to group the plurality of end-users into a plurality of groups, to generate at least one task for the plurality of groups, and to coach at least some of the plurality of groups through completion of the at least one task, thereby facilitating the video collaboration session involving the plurality of end-users; and at least one second video gateway computer system communicably coupled between the first video gateway computer system and the plurality of end-users, the second video gateway computer system being operative: to receive the plurality of video streams from the plurality of end-users, to provide the plurality of video streams to the first video gateway computer system, to receive the video content from the first video gateway computer system, and to transmit the video content to at least one of the plurality of end-users in a format optimized to at least one device associated with the at least one of the plurality of end users, wherein the video content includes active video information and non-active video information, and wherein the at least one second video gateway Computer system is further operative: to implement, at least at some times, focusing features for the at least one device, including transmitting only the active video information for subsequent display on the at least one device, to implement, at least at some times, bandwidth reduction features for the at least one device, including one or more of limiting transmission of the non-active video information to the at least one device, and transmitting the non-active video information in a reduced resolution format for subsequent display on the at least one device, and to limit, at least at some times, a number of presentation windows on the at least one device, thereby facilitating display of one or both of the active video information and the non-active video information on the at least one device. 2. A method for managing video conferencing, the method comprising: formatting, by a first video gateway computer system, presentation of video content of a plurality of video signals to a plurality of end-users, the video content representing at least one aspect of a video collaboration session involving the plurality of end-users; grouping the plurality of end-users into a plurality of groups by a video conferencing computer system, the video conferencing computer system being communicably coupled to the first video gateway computer system; generating at least one task for the plurality of groups by the video conferencing computer system; coaching, by the video conferencing computer system, at least some of the plurality of groups through completion of the at least one task; receiving the video content at a second video gateway computer system from the first video gateway computer system; and transmitting, by the second video gateway computer system, the video content to at least one of the plurality of end-users in a format optimized to at least one device associated with the at least one of the plurality of end-users, the video content including active video information and non-active video information; implementing, at least at some times by the second video gateway computer system, focusing features for the at least one device, the implementing of the focusing features including transmitting only the active video information for subsequent display on the at least one device; implementing, at least at some times by the second video gateway computer system, bandwidth reduction features for the at least one device, the implementing of the bandwidth reduction features including one or more of limiting transmission of the non-active video information to the at least one device, and transmitting the non-active video information in a reduced resolution format for subsequent display on the at least one device; and limiting, at least at some times by the second video gateway computer system, a number of presentation windows on the at least one device, thereby facilitating display of one or both of the active video information and the non-active video information on the at least one device. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising receiving information associated with the at least one device of the plurality of end-users. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the plurality of video signals include a plurality of video streams, and wherein the method further comprises: adjusting a number of the plurality of video streams displayed to an end-user in response to the information associated with the at least one device of the plurality of end-users. 5. The method of claim 2, further comprising inserting, by the second video gateway computer system, additional content into the video content. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the additional content comprises at least one advertisement. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein the end-users communicate through a plurality of network service providers. 8. The method of claim 7, where at least one of the plurality of network service providers operate the at least one second video gateway computer system. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one of the plurality of network service providers control tuning of the transmission of the video content to the at least one device of the plurality of end-users. 