A hand controller which includes a hand grip having therein a gimble mechanism for allowing rotatory motion about three axes which intersect in the interior of the hand grip and from which motion transmitting members allow the motions about the three axes to be transmitted to remote pick off devices and also along which force feedback signals may be fedback to the gimble structure to provide the correct "feel" for the grip.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Three degrees of freedom hand controller apparatus including a grip for use by a controller's hand to produce output motion representative of turning motion of the hand about first, second and third mutually perpendicular axes intersecting at a point inside the grip, comprising: first rotatable means (46) mounted within the grip for rotation about the first axis when the controller's hand moves the grip about the first axis; second rotatable means (52) mounted within the grip on the first rotatable means for rotation about the second axis when the controller's hand moves the grip about the second axis; third rotatable means (70) mounted within the grip on the second rotatable means for rotation about the third axis when the controller's hand moves the grip about the third axis; first motion transmitting means connected to the first rotatable means and extending outside the grip to transmit rotary motion of the first rotatable means; second motion transmitting means connected to the second rotatable means and extending outside the grip to transmit rotary motion of the second rotatable means; and third motion transmitting means connected to the third rotatable means and extending outside the grip to transmit rotary motion of the third rotatable means. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 further including signal producing means connected to the first, second and third motion transmitting means to produce an electrical signal indicative of the motion of the first, second and third rotatable means about the first, second and third axes respectively. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the first motion transmitting means comprises a first elongated member (42) fixed to the first rotatable member and extending generally along the first axis, the second motion transmitting means comprises a second elongated member (94) connected to the second rotatable member and extending generally parallel to the first axis and the third motion transmitting means comprises a third elongated member (99) connected to the third rotatable member and extending generally parallel to the first axis. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the motion transmitted by the first elongated member is rotary, and the motions transmitted by the second and third elongated members is linear, the signal producing means operates to convert rotary motion to electrical signals and further including modifying means to convert the linear motion transmitted by the second and third motion transmitting means to rotary motion for use by the signal producing means. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the three degree of freedom hand controller is connected to member means that is mounted for low friction linear movement in a first direction, a force applied to the grip generally through the point of intersection of the three axes causing motion of the member means along the first direction without motion of the grip about the first, second or third axis. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1 further including force feedback means connected to the first, second and third motion transmitting means and operable to provide a force tending to oppose any motion of the first, second and third rotatable means about the first second and third axes respectively. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the force feedback means comprises first, second and third scissor spring mechanisms (FIG. 5) connected to the first, second and third motion transmitting means respectively. 8. Apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the force feedback means comprises first, second and third electric motors (124, 160 and 166) connected to the first, second and third motion transmitting means respectively. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8 further including signal producing means connected to the first, second and third motion transmitting means respectively to produce electric output signals indicative of rotation of the first, second and third rotatable means about the first, second and third axes respectively, and the first, second and third electric motor means receive the electrical signals from the signal producing means to apply forces in accordance therewith to the first, a second and third motion transmitting means respectively. 10. A three degree of freedom hand controller which minimizes cross coupling between rotations about three mutually perpendicular axes by having the axes intersect at a point interior of the hand controller and which permits motions about the three axes to be transmitted exterior of the hand controller, comprising: a first member (46) mounted on a first mechanical connection means (42) which rotates about the first axis; a second member (52) gimbled to the first member and rotatable about the second axis, the second member including second mechanical connection means (94) connected thereto and extending exterior of the hand controller so as to transmit motion of the second member in a direction generally parallel to the first axis; and a third member gimbled (70) to the second member and rotatable about the third axis, the third member including third mechanical connection means (99) connected thereto and extending exterior of the hand controller so as to transmit motion of the third member in a direction generally parallel to the first axis. 11. The hand controller of claim 10 further including first, second and third transducers (142, 160 and 166) operable to convert mechanical motion to electrical output signals, each transducer mounted external to the hand controller and connected to one of the first, second and third mechanical connection means respectively. 12. The hand controller of claim 11 wherein the motion of the first mechanical connection means is rotary, the motions of the second and third mechanical connection means are linear and further including coupling means to convert the linear motions of the second and third connection means to rotary motions and wherein the first, second and third transducer are of the type which convert rotary motion to electrical signals. 13. The hand controller of claim 11 further including member means movable in at least one direction parallel to the plane of the second and third axes connected to the hand controller, motion of the hand controller in a direction parallel to the one direction causing movement of the member means in the one direction. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the first, second and third transducers are mounted on the member means. 15. The apparatus of claim 11 further including first, second and third force feedback means connected to the first, second and third mechanical connection means respectively to produce forces therein tending to oppose the motion of the first, second and third members about the first, second and third axes respectively. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the force feedback means comprises first, second and third scissor spring mechanisms (FIG. 5). 17. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the force feedback means comprises first, second and third electric motors (124, 160 and 166) connected to receive the electric signals and produce forces in accordance therewith. 18. A three degree of freedom controller including hand grip means having an interior cavity (39) therein; first mechanical motion transmitting means (42) rotatable about a first axis and extending from inside the cavity to a position remote from the hand grip means; a first yolk fixed to the first mechanical motion transmitting means and in the cavity, the first mechanical motion transmitting means operable to transmit motion to and from the first yolk about the first axis; a second yolk gimbled to the first yolk for rotation in the cavity about a second axis perpendicularly intersecting the first axis at a point; a third yolk gimbled to the second yolk for rotation in the cavity a bout a third axis perpendicularly intersecting the first and second axes at the point; second mechanical motion transmitting means (94) connected to the second yolk inside the cavity and extending remote from the grip to transmit motion to and from the second yolk about the second axis; and third mechanical motion transmitting means (99) connected to the third yolk inside the cavity and extending remote from the grip to transmit motion to and from the third yolk about the third axis. 19. Apparatus according to claim 18 further including transducing means located remote from the grip, connected to the first, second and third mechanical motion transmitting means respectively and operable to produce first, second and third electrical signals indicative of the motions of the first, second and third yolks about the first second and third axes respectively. 20. Apparatus according to claim 19 further including member means mounted for movement in at least a first direction parallel to the plane of the second and third axes, the member means connected to carry the grip and having the transducing means mounted therein. 21. Apparatus according to claim 20 wherein a force imparted to the grip and directed generally through the point produces motion of the member means along the first direction. 22. Apparatus according to claim 19 further including force feedback means connected to the first, second and third mechanical motion transmitting means to provide motions thereto of magnitude corresponding to the electrical signals from the first, second an third transducing means and of direction to oppose any motions of the first, second and third yolks about the first, second and third axes respectively. 