A conveyor-stack test system has motherboards that test memory modules. The motherboards are not stationary but are placed inside movable trays that move along conveyors. A loader-unloader removes tested memory modules from test sockets on the motherboards and inserts untested memory modules into the motherboards using a robotic arm. A conveyor carries the motherboards from the loader-unloader to an elevator. The elevator raises or lowers the motherboards to different levels in a conveyor stack with multiple levels of conveyors each with many test stations. The motherboards move along conveyors in the conveyor stack until reaching test stations. A retractable connector from the test station extends to make contact with a motherboard connector to power up the motherboard, which then tests the memory modules. Test results are communicated from the test station to a host controller, which instructs the loader-unloader to sort the tested memory modules once the motherboard returns.
Claims We claim: 1. A parallel test system for testing electronic devices on movable tester boards comprising: a plurality of tester boards, each tester board in the plurality of tester boards being a main board using the electronic devices; test sockets on the plurality of tester boards, the test sockets for receiving electronic devices for testing; a loader-unloader for inserting electronic devices into test sockets on tester boards in the plurality of tester boards when the tester boards are at a loading station; a plurality of test stations, for connecting to tester boards in the plurality of tester boards and for activating the tester boards to test the electronic devices inserted into the test sockets on the tester boards; and a conveyor for moving the plurality of tester boards from the loading station to the plurality of test stations, and for moving the plurality of tester boards from the plurality of test stations to the loading station after testing by the plurality of test stations, whereby the electronic devices are inserted into tester boards that are moved by the conveyor to the plurality of test stations for testing, and wherein the conveyor moves tester boards back to the loading station after testing. 2. The parallel test system of claim 1 further comprising: movable trays that are placed on the conveyor, each movable tray for holding a tester board in the plurality of tester boards, each movable tray moving along the conveyor to transport the tester board from the loading station to a test station in the plurality of test stations, and to return the tester board to the loading station after testing. 3. The parallel test system of claim 2 wherein the movable trays electrically insulate the plurality of tester boards from the conveyor during testing by the plurality of test stations. 4. The parallel test system of claim 1 further comprising: test adaptor boards, each coupled to a tester board in the plurality of tester boards, the test adaptor boards having the test sockets for receiving electronic devices for testing by the tester boards, each test adaptor board for electrically connecting an electronic device inserted into the test socket to a tester board attached to the test adaptor board, the tester board using the electronic device inserted into the test socket. 5. The parallel test system of claim 4 wherein the tester boards have a component side and a solder side, the component side having integrated circuits mounted thereon; wherein the test adaptor boards are mounted to the solder side of the tester boards. 6. The parallel test system of claim 1 further comprising a main system interface, coupled to the plurality of test stations, for commanding test stations in the plurality of test stations to apply power to activate tester boards to test electronic devices inserted into the test sockets and for receiving test results from the tester boards, wherein the main system interface instructs the loader-unloader to sort electronic devices based on the test results; wherein the main system interface stores the test results while the tester board is being returned from the test station to the loader-unloader after testing by the test station. 7. The parallel test system of claim 6 wherein the loader-unloader further comprises: a robotic arm, responsive to commands from the main system interface, for inserting electronic devices into the test sockets on tester boards. 8. The parallel test system of claim 1 wherein the conveyor further comprises: a conveyor stack having multiple levels of conveyor lines, wherein each conveyor line has a plurality of test stations; an elevator for raising and lowering a tester board to the multiple levels of conveyor lines; and an input conveyor line between the loading station and the elevator. 9. The parallel test system of claim 2 wherein the conveyor further comprises: a plurality of conveyor stacks, each conveyor stack having multiple levels of conveyor lines, wherein each conveyor line has a plurality of test stations; an elevator for raising and lowering a tester board to the multiple levels of conveyor lines; and an input conveyor line between the loading station and the elevator. 10. The parallel test system of claim 9 further comprising a plurality of elevators each for raising and lowering a tester board to the multiple levels of conveyor lines in a conveyor stack in the plurality of conveyor stacks; and a rotator for diverting a tester board from the input conveyor line to a selected elevator in the plurality of elevators. 11. The parallel test system of claim 2 wherein each test station in the plurality of test stations further comprises: a retractable connector for retracting to allow tester boards on the conveyor to pass by the test station, and for extending to make electrical contact with a tester board connector on a tester board. 12. The parallel test system of claim 11 wherein each test station in the plurality of test stations further comprises: a stopper for extending over the conveyor to stop the tester board from moving past the test station during testing, and for retracting to allow the tester board to be moved by the conveyor after testing is completed. 13. A moving-tester-board electronic tester comprising: a plurality of tester boards, a tester board in the plurality of tester boards for executing a test program to test an electronic device inserted into a test socket on the tester board; a Device-Under-Test (DUT) loader-unloader having a robotic device that removes a tested electronic device from the test socket on the tester board, and that inserts an electronic device into the test socket on the tester board when the tester board is located at the DUT loader-unloader; an input conveyor that moves the tester board away from the DUT loader-unloader after the electronic device has been inserted into the test socket; an input elevator that receives the tester board from the input conveyor, and raises or lowers the tester board to a selected level in a plurality of levels; a conveyor stack having a plurality of levels, each level having a testing conveyor that receives tester boards from the input elevator; a plurality of test stations along each testing conveyor, each test station having a retractable connector that connects to a tester board connector on the tester board, the retractable connector applying power to the tester board to activate the tester board to test the electronic device in the test socket; a network connection to the plurality of test stations for communicating test results from the plurality of test stations testing the plurality of tester boards, wherein the test results control the DUT loader-unloader to sort electronic devices when the robotic device removes the tested electronic devices, wherein test results indicating that the electronic device failed testing are sorted into a failed group of electronic devices while test results indicating that the electronic device passed testing are sorted into a passing group of electronic devices by the robotic device; an output conveyor that moves the tester board toward the DUT loader-unloader after the electronic device has been tested by one of the plurality of test stations; and an output elevator that receives the tester board from the testing conveyor for the selected level in the plurality of levels of the conveyor stack and lowers or raises the tester board to a level of the output conveyor, whereby electronic devices are transported from the DUT loader-unloader to the plurality of test stations by conveyors that move the plurality of tester boards between test stations and the DUT loader-unloader. 14. The moving-tester-board electronic tester of claim 13 further comprising: a plurality of movable trays that carry the plurality of tester boards along the input conveyor, the testing conveyor, and the output conveyor, whereby tester boards are carried by the plurality of movable trays. 15. The moving-tester-board electronic tester of claim 14 further comprising: a test adaptor board mounted to each tester board, wherein the test socket is mounted on the test adaptor board, the test socket for receiving an electronic device inserted by the robotic device. 16. The moving-tester-board electronic tester of claim 14 wherein each testing conveyor passes along at least three test stations, wherein at least three tester boards are tested in parallel by each testing conveyor; wherein the conveyor stack comprises at least three levels; wherein the conveyor stack comprises at least three testing conveyors in a level; wherein the conveyor stack tests at least nine tester boards in parallel. 17. The moving-tester-board electronic tester of claim 16 wherein testing conveyors in a conveyor stack are located vertically above each other, whereby floor space is minimized. 18. The moving-tester-board electronic tester of claim 13 wherein each test station further comprises: a retractable connector that retracts to allow tester boards to pass by on the testing conveyor, and that extends to make contact with a tester board connector on the tester board; wherein power is applied through the retractable connector and the tester board connector by the test station when testing the electronic device on the tester board. 19. A multiple-tester-board conveying electronic tester comprising: host system means for controlling testing of electronic devices on multiple tester boards and for controlling movement of tester boards by conveyors; test socket means for receiving an electronic device for testing; conveyed tester board means, controlled by the host system means, for executing a test program on an electronic device inserted into the test socket means; test adaptor board means, mounted on the conveyed tester board means, for electrically connecting the test socket means to a bus means on the conveyed tester board means; wherein the multiple-tester board conveying electronic tester has a plurality of the conveyed tester board means, each conveyed tester board means having an attached test adaptor board means with a test socket means, each conveyed tester board means for executing the test program on a different electronic device in parallel with other tester board means; robotic means, controlled by the host system means, for grasping an electronic device and inserting the electronic device into the test socket means, the robotic means also for grasping and removing the electronic device from the test socket means after completion of the test program, and moving the electronic device to an output means for storing tested electronic devices when the conveyed tester board means indicates to the host system means that the electronic device has passed the test program, test station means for applying power to the conveyed tester board means to activate the conveyed tester board means to test the electronic device inserted into the test socket means; and conveying means, coupled between a loading station that is accessible by the robotic means, and a testing conveyor having a plurality of the test stations means, wherein the testing conveyor is not accessible by the robotic means, for moving the conveyed tester board means from the loading station to the testing conveyor before testing, and for moving the conveyed tester board means from the testing conveyor to the loading station after testing, whereby tester boards are moved from the loading station to the testing conveyor before testing, and moved from the testing conveyor back to the loading station after testing. 20. The multiple-tester-board conveying electronic tester of claim 19 wherein the conveying means further comprises: a plurality of levels, each level having a testing conveyor and a plurality of test station means; and elevator means for elevating the conveyed tester board means to a selected level in the plurality of levels, whereby multiple levels of the test station means are accessed by the elevator means. 