A robotic arm including a parallel spherical five-bar linkage with a remote center of spherical rotation. The robotic arm movably supports an endoscopic camera. Two outboard links are pivotally coupled together. At least one of the two outboard links supports the endoscopic camera. Two inboard links are respectively pivotally coupled to the two outboard links such that the two inboard links are able to cross over one another. The two inboard links moveably support the two outboard links. A ground link is pivotally coupled to the two inboard links. The ground link moveably supports the two inboard links.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic arm including a parallel spherical five-bar linkage with a remote center of spherical rotation, the robotic arm comprising: an endoscopic camera; two outboard links pivotally coupled together at an outboard axis, at least one of the two outboard links to support the endoscopic camera; a constraint to limit the rotation of the outboard links about the outboard axis such that the two outboard links are constrained to have a minimum angle between them of 15 degrees; two inboard links respectively pivotally coupled to the two outboard links such that the two inboard links cross over one another, the two inboard links to moveably support the two outboard links; and a ground link pivotally coupled to the two inboard links, the ground link to moveably support the two inboard links. 2. The robotic arm of claim 1, further including two motors coupled by the ground link in spaced apart positions, each of the two motors respectively coupled to one of the two inboard links to rotate the coupled inboard link and thereby move the endoscopic camera about the remote center of spherical rotation. 3. The robotic arm of claim 2, wherein each of the two motors has an output shaft that is respectively coupled to one of two right angle drive having a rotatable shaft at right angles to the output shaft and coupled to one of the two inboard links. 4. The robotic arm of claim 2, further including a first drive shaft coupled to one of the two motors at a driven end and to one of the two inboard links at an opposite end, the first drive shaft extending from the driven end toward the remote center of spherical rotation; and a second drive shaft coupled to one of the two motors at a driven end and to one of the two inboard links at an opposite end, the second drive shaft extending from the driven end away from the remote center of spherical rotation; such that each of the two inboard links may cross over the ground link. 5. The robotic arm of claim 2, further including a controller coupled to the two motors to provide signals to the motors. 6. The robotic arm of claim 5, wherein the controller limits the rotation of the inboard links such that the robotic arm is limited to only a range of compact poses. 7. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the endoscopic camera is movable along an insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 8. The robotic arm of claim 1, wherein the robotic arm is limited to only a range of compact poses. 9. A parallel spherical five-bar linkage with a remote center of spherical rotation, the linkage comprising: a ground link having two spaced apart driven axes of rotation; two inboard links, each inboard link pivotally coupled to the ground link at one of the two driven axes of rotation, each inboard link having an intermediate axis spaced apart from the driven axis of rotation; two outboard links, each outboard link pivotally coupled to one of the inboard links at the inboard link's intermediate axis, the two outboard links pivotally coupled together at an outboard axis that is spaced apart from the intermediate axes; and a constraint to limit the rotation of the outboard links about the outboard axis such that a minimum angle between the outboard links is at least fifteen degrees; wherein all axes pass through the remote center of spherical rotation and each of the two inboard links is constrained such that the intermediate axis of the inboard link is disposed to a same side of the driven axis of rotation of the inboard link as the other driven axis of rotation when the inboard links lies in the same plane as the ground link. 10. The linkage of claim 9, wherein the constraint further includes a mechanical stop. 11. The linkage of claim 10, wherein the mechanical stop directly limits the rotation of one of the outboard links about the outboard axis relative to the other outboard link. 12. The linkage of claim 9, wherein the ground link and the two inboard links have substantially the same angular length. 13. The linkage of claim 12, wherein the two outboard links have substantially the same angular length. 14. The linkage of claim 12, wherein the two outboard links have substantially the same angular length as the ground link. 15. The linkage of claim 9, wherein the constraint includes: two motors, each motor coupled to the ground link and to one of the two inboard links at one of the two axes of rotation; and a controller to cause each of the two motors to rotate the coupled inboard link about one of the two axes of rotation with a limited range of rotation. 16. The linkage of claim 9, wherein the ground link and the two inboard links are constructed and coupled such that each one of the two inboard links and its coupled outboard link can freely pass the ground link and the other of the two inboard links and its coupled outboard link. 17. The linkage of claim 9, further comprising: two rotary encoders, each rotary encoder coupled to one of the inboard links at its axis of rotation; and a computer coupled to the two rotary encoders to receive the bearing of each of the inboard links and compute the position of the outboard axis. 18. The linkage of claim 9, wherein one of the outboard links further includes an insertion axis spaced apart from the outboard axis and the intermediate axis, the insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 19. The linkage of claim 9, wherein one of the outboard links further includes an insertion axis coincident with the outboard axis, the insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 20. A system comprising: a robotic arm including a parallel spherical five-bar linkage having a ground link, two motors coupled to the ground link, each motor having an axis of rotation, the two axes of rotation intersecting at a remote center of spherical rotation, two inboard links, each inboard link coupled to one of the motors at the motor's axis of rotation, each inboard link having an intermediate axis spaced apart from the motor's axis of rotation, the two intermediate axes passing through the remote center of spherical rotation, two outboard links, each outboard link pivotally coupled to one of the inboard links at the inboard link's intermediate axis, the two outboard links pivotally coupled together at an outboard axis that is spaced apart from the intermediate axes and passing through the remote center of spherical rotation, and a constraint to limit the rotation of one of the outboard links about the intermediate axis such that an angle between the motor's axis of rotation, the intermediate axis, and the outboard axis cannot exceed 160 degrees; a controller to cause each of the two motors of the robotic arm to rotate the respectively coupled inboard links about the motors' axes of rotation. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein one of the outboard links further includes a surgical instrument having an insertion axis spaced apart from the outboard axis, the insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the insertion axis is spaced further apart from the intermediate axis of the one of the outboard links than the outboard axis is spaced apart from that intermediate axis. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the insertion axis, the outboard axis, and the intermediate axis of the one of the outboard links are coplanar. 24. The system of claim 20, wherein one of the outboard links further includes a surgical instrument having an insertion axis coincident with the outboard axis, the insertion axis passing through the remote center of spherical rotation. 25. The system of claim 20, wherein the two axes of rotation are spaced apart on the ground link. 