Ball robot comprising a shell, a diametric main axle, at least one pendulum, and a drive mechanism comprising at least two drive motors, wherein the drive motors are arranged on the pendulum(s) in the vicinity of the inner surface of the shell. There is also provided a ball robot with a ball shaped shell, a diametric axle attached to the shell concentric with the main axis of rotation of the shell, and a drive mechanism located inside the shell and supported by the diametric axle, wherein the diametric axle is arranged to accommodate for dimensional changes of the shell along the main axis of rotation.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A ball robot, comprising: a spherical shell; a diametric main axle; at least one pendulum pivotally coupled to the main axle; and a drive mechanism for driving said pendulum(s) comprising at least a primary drive motor and a secondary drive motor, wherein the drive motors are arranged on the pendulum(s) in a vicinity of an inner surface of the shell, the primary motor is arranged to drive said pendulum(s) for rotation about said main axis, and the secondary motor is arranged to drive said pendulum for rotation about a secondary axis. 2. The ball robot according to claim 1 wherein the primary motor is arranged at a lower portion of a primary pendulum, in the vicinity of the inner surface of the shell, the primary pendulum being rotatably supported by the diametric main axle at an upper end, and the primary motor being arranged to drive the primary pendulum for rotation about the main axle by a primary transmission arrangement, wherein the drive mechanism further comprises a secondary pendulum and the secondary motor for driving the secondary pendulum for rotation about a secondary axle transverse to the main axle and attached to the primary pendulum, and wherein the secondary motor is arranged at a lower portion of the secondary pendulum, in the vicinity of the inner surface of the shell, and the secondary motor being arranged to drive the secondary pendulum for rotation about the secondary axle by a secondary transmission arrangement. 3. The ball robot according to claim 2 wherein the drive mechanism comprises two secondary pendulums, arranged on the secondary axis, one on each side of the main axis. 4. The ball robot according to claim 2 wherein the ball robot further comprises a power supply (battery) and a control system, all arranged at the lower portion of the secondary pendulum, in the vicinity of the inner surface of the shell. 5. The ball robot according to claim 4 wherein the power supply and the control system are arranged on a rotation element which is rotatable about the lateral axis of the secondary pendulum. 6. The ball robot according to claim 1 wherein the drive mechanism comprises the primary and secondary drive motors arranged on a drive pendulum in the vicinity of the inner surface of the shell, the primary motor being arranged to drive the drive pendulum for rotation about the main axle by a primary transmission arrangement and the secondary motor being arranged to drive the drive pendulum for rotation about a secondary axle transverse to the main axle by a secondary transmission arrangement. 7. The ball robot according to claim 6 wherein the drive mechanism comprises a third drive motor arranged on a second drive pendulum in the vicinity of the inner surface of the shell, the third motor being arranged to drive the second drive pendulum for rotation about the secondary axle by a third transmission arrangement. 8. The ball robot according to claim 1, further comprising a self learning system control system. 9. A ball robot, comprising: a ball shaped shell; a diametric axle attached to the shell concentric with a main axis of rotation of the shell; and a drive mechanism located inside the shell and supported by the diametric axle, wherein the diametric axle is arranged to accommodate for dimensional changes of the shell along the main axis of rotation. 10. The ball robot according to claim 9 wherein the diametric axle is a telescopic axle. 11. The ball robot according to claim 10 wherein the telescopic axle comprises two end sections being secured to the shell and a mid section carrying the drive mechanism, wherein the mid section being arranged so that it cannot rotate with respect to the end sections, e.g. by splines. 12. The ball robot according to claim 9 wherein the diametric axle is attached to the shell by at least one member. 13. The ball robot according to claim 9 wherein the diametric axle is a hollow tube being arranged to house additional sensor and/or actuator means (equipment) carried by the robot. 14. The ball robot according to claim 13 wherein the tube has a circular, rectangular or polygonal cross sectional shape. 15. The ball robot according to claim 13 wherein the tube is provided with a fastening structure and the additional equipment with a mating structure. 16. The ball robot according to claim 13 wherein the additional equipment is powered by a main power source in the robot. 17. The ball robot according to claim 16 wherein the tube is provided with a power source interface for conducting electrical power to the additional equipment. 18. The ball robot according to claim 13 wherein the robot is provided with a main computer and a communication interface for communication between the main computer and the additional equipment. 19. The ball robot according to claim 18 wherein the communication interface is wireless. 20. The ball robot according to claim 18 wherein the communication interface is a wire with a communication interface connection in the tube and a mating connection on the additional equipment. 21. The ball robot according to claim 13 wherein the tube forms an extension of an opening in the shell. 22. The ball robot according to claim 13 wherein the tube connects two openings in the shell, whereby the shell and the tube together form a closed structure enclosing an inner volume housing the drive mechanism. 23. The ball robot according to claim 22 wherein the ball robot further comprises end caps arranged at the openings in the shell. 24. The ball robot according to claim 23 wherein the end caps are extendable with respect to the openings in the shell. 25. The ball robot according to claim 23 wherein the end caps are provided with antennas for the wireless communication system. 26. The ball robot according to claim 9, further comprising a self learning system control system. 