The present invention relates to methods of making preforms, fiber-reinforced molded articles and fiber mats, wherein the methods use electroluminescent devices such as LED's and/or quantum dots located on a surface of the mold.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of making a preform using a separable mold including a perforate first mold part and a pressing second mold part, the mold parts, when closed, together defining a desired three-dimensional shape of the preform and including inner surfaces disposed at angles with respect to one another forming inside and outside corners, comprising the steps of: (a) cutting fibers of reinforcement material; (b) propelling the cut fibers onto a surface of the perforate first mold part while contemporaneously flowing air through the first mold part to direct the fibers onto all surfaces of the first mold part to a predetermined thickness; (c) applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder onto the cut fibers to at least partially coat the fibers with the binder, optionally without filling interstices among the fibers; (d) optionally closing the separable mold parts to press the binder-coated cut fibers into the desired three-dimensional shape of the preform between a surface of the pressing second mold part and the perforate first mold part of the closed mold; (e) applying electromagnetic energy to the binder that promotes the curing of said binder, wherein said electromagnetic energy is produced by one or more electromagnetic energy production elements, wherein one or more of said electromagnetic energy production elements are located on at least one of the surfaces of the first mold part or the second mold part, and wherein said elements are selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (f) applying a heat-curable binder to at least one selected area of the preform; (g) moving a reinforcement subassembly into intimate contact with the preform at the at least one selected binder-coated area; and (h) applying heat onto the at least one selected binder-coated area to cure the binder and attach the subassembly to the preform, wherein said heat is produced by heat-producing LED's. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said electroluminescent devices are one or more LED's. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the separable mold comprises an electromagnetic energy-transmissive material. 5. A method of making a preform using a mold defining a desired three-dimensional shape of the preform and including a perforate mold surface, comprising the steps of: (a) cutting fibers of reinforcement material; (b) propelling the cut fibers onto the surface of the mold while contemporaneously flowing air through the mold to direct the fibers onto the surface of the mold; (c) applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder onto the cut fibers to at least partially coat the fibers with the binder, optionally without filling interstices among the fibers; (d) applying electromagnetic energy to the binder that promotes the curing of said binder, wherein said electromagnetic energy is produced by one or more electromagnetic energy production elements, wherein one or more of said electromagnetic energy production elements are located on the surface of the mold, and wherein said elements are selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the steps of: (e) applying a heat-curable binder to at least one selected area of the preform; (f) moving a reinforcement subassembly into intimate contact with the preform at the at least one selected binder-coated area; and (g) applying heat onto the at least one selected binder-coated area to cure the binder and attach the subassembly to the preform, wherein said heat is produced by heat-producing LED's. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said electroluminescent devices are one or more LED's. 8. The method of claim 5, wherein at least a portion of the mold comprises an electromagnetic energy-transmissive material. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein said step of propelling the cut fibers onto the surface of the mold continues until the cut fibers have achieved a predetermined thickness over the mold surface. 10. The method of claim 5, wherein said step of propelling the cut fibers onto the surface of the mold occurs at the same time as the step of applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder onto the cut fibers. 11. The method of claim 5, wherein said step of applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder onto the cut fibers occurs prior to the step of propelling the cut fibers onto the surface of the mold. 12. A method of making a molded article using a mold defining a desired three-dimensional shape of the molded article and including a perforate mold surface, comprising the steps of: (a) cutting fibers of reinforcement material; (b) propelling the cut fibers onto the surface of the mold while contemporaneously flowing air through the mold to direct the fibers onto the surface of the mold; (c) applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder onto the fibers to at least partially coat the fibers with the binder; (d) applying electromagnetic energy to the binder that promotes the curing of said binder, wherein said electromagnetic energy is produced by one or more electromagnetic energy production elements, wherein one or more of said electromagnetic energy production elements are located on the surface of the mold, and wherein said elements are selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising the steps of: (e) applying a heat-curable binder to at least one selected area of the molded article; (f) moving a reinforcement subassembly into intimate contact with the molded article at the at least one selected binder-coated area; and (g) applying heat onto the at least one selected binder-coated area to cure the binder and attach the subassembly to the molded article, wherein said heat is produced by heat-producing LED's. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said electroluminescent devices are one or more LED's. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein at least a portion of the mold comprises an electromagnetic energy-transmissive material. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein said step of propelling the cut fibers onto the surface of the mold continues until the cut fibers have achieved a predetermined thickness over the mold surface. 17. The method of claim 12, wherein said step of propelling the cut fibers onto the surface of the mold occurs at the same time as the step of applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder onto the cut fibers. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein said step of applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder onto the fibers occurs prior to the step of propelling the cut fibers onto the surface of the mold. 