A robot for serving a product dispensed from a product dispenser to a customer including a processor and a robotic arm. The processor stores a predetermined instruction set and generates command signals according to the instruction set. The robotic arm is responsive to certain ones of the command signals for transferring the dispensed product from a product dispense location to a position adjacent the customer for removal by the customer. The robot may further comprise a communications system for storing a set of predetermined messages and is responsive to certain other ones of the command signals for announcing selected ones of the messages. Furthermore, the robot may further include a transport system for transferring the dispensed product from the position adjacent the customer, the product dispense location and the position adjacent the customer beyond reach of the customer, to a position within reach of the customer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for serving a product dispensed from a product dispenser to a customer, said system comprising: processing means for storing a predetermined instruction set and for generating command signals according to said instruction set; a product dispenser for dispensing products; robotic a robot having arm means responsive to certain ones of said command signals for moving said dispensed product from a product dispenser to a first position beyond reach of a customer; and transport means for transferring said dispensed product from said first position to a second position within reach of a customer. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising communications means for storing a set of predetermined messages and responsive to certain other ones of said command signals for announcing selected ones of said messages. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said product dispenser dispenses additional products with said robot further comprising at least one additional robotic arm means responsive to corresponding other certain ones of said command signals for moving a respective additional dispensed product dispensed from said product dispenser at a product dispense location to said first position beyond reach of a customer, said transport means for receiving each additional dispensed product at said first position and transferring each additional dispensed product to said second position within reach of a customer. 4. The system of claim 3 further comprising at least one additional transport means for, receiving said additional dispensed products at a corresponding first position on said at least one additional transport means and transferring each additional dispensed product to a corresponding second position. 5. A robotic system for serving a product to a customer; comprising: customer input means responsive to a customer input in the form of product payment and product selection for respectively generating a payment signal and a selection signal; processor means for storing and utilizing a set of programmed instructions for initially generating a promotional signal and in response to said payment signal generating a selection request signal, generating a dispense signal in response to said selection signal, and generating a transfer signal in response to a dispense, complete signal; speech means responsive to said promotional signal and said selection request signal for respectively providing audio annunciations of promotional and selection request messages; product dispenser means responsive to said product dispense signal for dispensing a customer selected product and for generating a product dispense complete signal upon completing the dispensing of a selected product; robotic arm means responsive to said transfer signal for transferring said dispensed product from said product dispenser means to a first position adjacent a customer. 6. The system of claim 5 further comprising illumination means coupled to said speech means for providing a variable illumination display. 7. The system of claim 5 wherein said speech means further comprises: speech memory means for storing said promotional and selection request messages; annunciation means for providing an audible annunciation of said promotional and selection request messages; and speech processing means coupled to said speech memory means and said annunciation means and responsive to said promotional and said selection request signals for accessing said speech memory means and providing corresponding ones of said promotional and selection request messages from said speech memory means to said annunciation means. 8. The system of claim 5 further comprising transport means for transferring a dispensed product from said first position to a second position adjacent a customer wherein a dispensed product in said first and second positions is respectively beyond and within reach of a customer. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said transport means comprises a rotatable carousel upon which a dispensed product is placed at said first position, with said carousel rotating so as to transfer a dispensed product to said second position. 10. The system of claim 8 wherein said processor means further generates a product delivery signal upon completion of said product transfer to said first position, said transport means responsive to said product delivery signal for transferring a dispensed product from said first position to said second position. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said transport means comprises a rotatable carousel upon which a dispensed product is placed at said first position, with said carousel rotating so as to transfer a dispensed product to said second position. 12. A product serving system for dispensing and serving a product dispensed from a product dispenser to a customer, said system comprising: processor means for storing and executing a predetermined instruction set and for generating command signals according to said instruction set; robotic arm means responsive to certain ones of said command signals for moving a product dispensed from said product dispenser at a product dispense location to a transfer position adjacent a customer, said product dispense location and said transfer position beyond reach of a customer; and transport means for, receiving said dispensed product at said transfer position and transferring said dispensed product from said transfer position to a receive position adjacent a customer with said receive position within customer reach so as to permit customer removal of a dispensed product at said receive position. 13. The system of claim 12 further comprising communications means for storing a set of predetermined messages and responsive to certain other ones of said command signals for announcing selected ones of said messages. 14. The system of claim 12 wherein said product dispenser dispenses additional products with said system further comprising at least one additional robotic arm means, said at least one additional robotic arm means being responsive to corresponding other certain ones of said command signals for moving a respective additional dispensed product from said product dispense location to a respective additional transport means at a respective additional transfer location beyond reach of a customer, said transport means for, receiving each additional dispensed product at the respective additional transfer position and transferring each additional dispensed product to a corresponding additional receive position within reach of a customer. 15. In a robotic product serving system a method for providing to a customer, upon customer request, a product dispensed from a product dispenser that is capable of dispensing a product at a product dispense location that is beyond reach of a customer and within a robotic arm member capable of transferring the dispensed product from the product dispense location to a transfer location that is beyond reach of a customer and with a delivery platform capable of receiving a dispensed product at the transfer location and transferring the dispensed product from the transfer location to a receive location within reach of a customer for customer removal thereat, comprising the steps of; detecting a customer request for a product to be dispensed from said product dispenser; moving said robotic arm member to said product dispense location upon detection of a customer request; dispensing a product from said product dispenser at said product dispense location; capturing with said robotic arm member a dispensed product at said product dispense location; moving said robotic arm member so as to place a dispensed product upon said delivery platform at said transfer location; releasing said dispensed product from said robotic arm member; removing said robotic arm member from said transfer location; and moving said delivery platform so as to place a dispensed product thereupon in said receive location. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said delivery platform comprises a rotatable carousel, and said step of moving said delivery platform comprises rotation of said rotatable carousel through a predetermined angle of rotation. 