An automated staining system and a reagent container designed for use with the automated staining apparatus. The reagent container includes a reagent containment section capable of containing a volume of a reagent. The reagent containment section includes an upper wall and a base wall that are spaced apart along an axis. The base wall includes a well having a nadir that is aligned axially with an access opening in the upper wall so that a reagent probe entering the opening parallel to said axis will travel toward the nadir. In another aspect of the invention, the reagent container may include a two-dimensional data element containing reagent information. The staining apparatus may include one removable drawer for holding reagent containers and another removable drawer holding slides.
Claims Accordingly, what is claimed is: 1. A reagent container capable of use in an autostainer having a probe, the container comprising: an upper wall having an access opening, a base wall, and a tubular side wall including at least a first wall and an opposite second wall interconnecting the base and upper walls, said upper wall being spaced apart from said base wall along an imaginary line passing through said base and upper walls, said base wall converging inwardly and downwardly from said tubular side wall and defining a concave well with a nadir that is spaced from each of said first and second walls and located closer to said first wall than said second wall, said nadir and said access opening being aligned with each other along said imaginary line so that the probe entering said opening in a direction substantially parallel to said imaginary line is directed toward said nadir. 2. The reagent container of claim 1 wherein said upper wall includes a neck having a passageway extending substantially parallel to said imaginary line, said access opening being formed in said neck and being substantially coextensive with the cross-sectional area of said passageway. 3. The reagent container of claim 2 further comprising a removable closure capable of engaging said neck and thereby sealing said access opening. 4. The reagent container of claim 1 further comprising a two-dimensional data storage element containing reagent data that is readable by the autostainer. 5. The reagent container of claim 4 wherein said two-dimensional data storage element includes a two-dimensional array of optically readable marks. 6. The reagent container of claim 4 wherein said data storage element is a two-dimensional bar code. 7. The reagent container of claim 1 wherein said tubular side wall comprises a front wall, an opposite rear wall and a pair of opposite side walls. 8. The reagent container of claim 7 wherein said first wall comprises said front wall and said second wall comprises said rear wall. 