An apparatus comprising a platform, a stylus, and an ultrasonic energy generation system. The platform may be capable of holding a sheet of material. The stylus may be capable of impinging the sheet of material to incrementally form a shape for a part. The ultrasonic energy generation system may be capable of sending ultrasonic energy into at least a portion of the sheet of material in a location on the sheet of material where the stylus impinges the sheet of material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a platform capable of holding a sheet of material; a stylus capable of impinging the sheet of material to incrementally form a shape for a part; an ultrasonic energy generation system capable of sending ultrasonic energy into at least a portion of the sheet of material in a location on the sheet of material where the stylus impinges the sheet of material; a control system controlling generation of the ultrasonic energy by the ultrasonic energy generation system; and a number of sensors capable of generating information, wherein the control system is capable of controlling the ultrasonic energy generated by the ultrasonic energy generation system using the information generated by the number of sensors. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the portion of the sheet of material is an area around the stylus upon impingement of the location on the sheet of material by stylus. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the ultrasonic energy generation system is selected from at least one of a transducer and an ultrasonic actuator. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the ultrasonic energy generation system comprises a number of ultrasonic energy devices coupled to at least one of the stylus and the portion of the sheet of material. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the ultrasonic energy generation system is capable of causing vibrations in the sheet of material that causes at least one of a temporary reduction in yield strength, a temporary increase in elongation, a temporary increase in ductility, and a temporary reduction in modulus for the sheet of material. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the number of sensors is selected from at least one of a temperature sensor, a vibration sensor, a microphone, and a load sensor. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a motion control system capable of controlling movement of the stylus. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sheet of material is comprised of a material selected from one of aluminum, titanium, steel, a steel alloy, a nickel alloy, a titanium alloy, and an aluminum alloy. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the shape for the part is for an object selected from one of a mobile platform and a stationary platform. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the control system controlling generation of the ultrasonic energy by the ultrasonic energy generation system further controls frequency of the energy. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the control system provides a frequency of ultrasonic energy greater than around 20 kilohertz. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a thermal control system controlling ultrasonic energy generated by the ultrasonic energy generation system using information generated by the number of sensors. 13. An incremental sheet metal forming machine comprising: a platform capable of holding a sheet of material; a stylus capable of impinging the sheet of material to incrementally form a shape for a part; a motion control system capable of controlling movement of the stylus; an ultrasonic energy generation system comprising a number of ultrasonic energy generation devices, wherein the ultrasonic energy generation system is capable of causing vibrations in at least a portion of the sheet of material in a location on the sheet of material in an area around the stylus prior to the stylus impinging the location to cause at least one of a temporary reduction in yield strength, a temporary increase in elongation, a temporary increase in ductility, and a temporary reduction in a modulus for the sheet of material; wherein the ultrasonic energy generation system is coupled to the stylus, and wherein the number of ultrasonic energy generation devices is selected from at least one of a transducer and an ultrasonic actuator; a number of sensors capable of generating information, wherein the number of sensors is selected from at least one of a temperature sensor, a vibration sensor, a microphone, and a load sensor, wherein a thermal control system is capable of controlling ultrasonic energy generated by the ultrasonic energy generation system using the information generated by the number of sensors; and a control system capable of controlling the ultrasonic energy generated by the ultrasonic energy generation system using the information from the number of sensors. 14. A method for processing a sheet of material, the method comprising: securing the sheet of material relative to a tool in an incremental sheet metal forming machine; incrementally shaping the sheet of material into a shape of a part using a stylus; and sending ultrasonic energy into at least a portion of the sheet of material in a location at which the stylus is to impinge prior to the stylus impinging the sheet of material at the location to cause vibrations in the portion of the sheet of material that causes at least one of a temporary reduction in yield strength, a temporary increase in elongation, a temporary increase in ductility, and a temporary reduction in a modulus for the sheet of material. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the portion of the sheet of material is an area around the stylus. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the sending step is performed by a number of ultrasonic energy generation devices selected from at least one of a transducer coupled to the stylus, a transducer coupled to the portion of the sheet of material, a transducer coupled to the stylus, and a transducer coupled to the portion of the sheet of material. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the sheet of material is a sheet of metal material. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein a frequency of ultrasonic energy is greater than around 20 kilohertz. 19. A method for processing a sheet of metal material into a shape for an aircraft part, the method comprising: securing the sheet of metal material relative to a tool in an incremental sheet metal forming machine; incrementally shaping the sheet of metal material into the shape of the aircraft part using a stylus; and sending ultrasonic energy into at least a portion of the sheet of metal material in a location at which the stylus is to impinge the sheet of metal material to cause vibrations in the portion of the sheet of metal material that causes at least one of a temporary reduction in yield strength, a temporary increase in elongation, a temporary increase in ductility, and a temporary reduction in a modulus for the sheet of metal material. 