A method of, and system for, accurately manipulating objects on a screen to obtain a desired layout. Objects are called or built and then manipulated in terms of rotation and/or displacement. Accurate manipulation is facilitated by displaying a readout of the extent of rotation and/or displacement. Upon obtaining a desired layout, the layout is stored, printed, used to drive a process, etc.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of facilitating precise rotational and translational positioning of an object representation on a display screen, said method comprising: selecting said object representation displayed on said display screen; displaying a single numerical readout of the relative movement of said object representation adjacent said object representation during movement of said object representation whereby said numerical readout dynamically changes in response to said movement; and moving said object representation from a first position on said display screen to a second position on said screen whereby said step of displaying causes said numerical readout to move along with said displayed object representation. 2. A method according to claim 1 including selecting a mode for moving said object representation. 3. A method according to claim 2 including selecting said object representation upon bringing a cursor coincident with said object representation. 4. A method according to claim 2 including displaying said extent of movement adjacent said cursor. 5. A method according to claim 4 wherein selecting a mode includes selecting a translation mode. 6. A method according to claim 4 wherein selecting a mode includes selecting a rotate mode. 7. A method according to claim 1 including tying said display of said extent of movement to said object representation. 8. A system for facilitating precise rotational and translational positioning of an object representation on a display screen, said system comprising: (a) means for selecting said object representation being displayed on said display screen; (b) means for moving said object representation from a first position on said display screen to a second position on said display screen; and (c) means for causing a display of a numerical readout of the relative movement of said object representation adjacent said object representation during movement of said object representation such that said numerical readout moves along with the displayed object representation. 