A parking-structure test system has motherboards that test memory modules. The motherboards are not stationary but are placed inside movable trays that move along conveyors. An unloader removes tested memory modules from test sockets on the motherboards, and a loader inserts untested memory modules into the motherboards using a robotic arm. A conveyor carries the motherboards from the loader to a parking and testing structure. An elevator raises or lowers the motherboards to different parking levels in the parking and testing structure. The motherboards move from the elevator to test stations on the parking level. A retractable connector from the test station makes contact with a motherboard connector to power up the motherboard, which then tests the memory modules. Test results are communicated from the test station to a host controller, which instructs the loader-unloader to sort the tested memory modules once the motherboard returns via the elevator and conveyors.
Claims We claim: 1. A multi-level test system for testing electronic devices on movable electronic testers comprising: a plurality of electronic testers; test sockets on the plurality of electronic testers, the test sockets for receiving electronic devices for testing; a loader-unloader for inserting electronic devices into test sockets on electronic testers in the plurality of electronic testers when the electronic testers are at a loading station; a parking-testing structure having a plurality of parking levels, each parking level for temporarily holding an electronic tester in the plurality of electronic testers during testing of the electronic devices in the test sockets; a plurality of test stations, for connecting to electronic testers in the plurality of electronic testers and for activating the electronic testers to test the electronic devices inserted into the test sockets on the electronic testers; wherein each parking level in the plurality of parking levels has a test station in the plurality of test stations that connects to an electronic tester in the plurality of electronic testers that is currently parked on each parking level; a conveyor for moving the plurality of electronic testers from the loading station to the parking-testing structure, and for moving the plurality of electronic testers from the parking-testing structure to the loading station after testing by the plurality of test stations, whereby the electronic devices are inserted into electronic testers that are moved by the conveyor to the parking-testing structure for testing, and wherein the conveyor moves electronic testers back to the loading station after testing. 2. The multi-level test system of claim 1 further comprising: movable trays that are placed on the conveyor, each movable tray for holding an electronic tester in the plurality of electronic testers, each movable tray moving along the conveyor to transport the electronic tester from the loading station to the parking-testing structure, and to return the electronic tester to the loading station after testing. 3. The multi-level test system of claim 2 wherein the movable trays electrically insulate the plurality of electronic testers from the conveyor during testing by the plurality of test stations. 4. The multi-level test system of claim 1 further comprising: test adaptor boards, each coupled to an electronic tester in the plurality of electronic testers, the test adaptor boards having the test sockets for receiving electronic devices for testing by the electronic testers, each test adaptor board for electrically connecting an electronic device inserted into a test socket to an electronic tester attached to the test adaptor board. 5. The multi-level test system of claim 4 wherein circuit boards of the electronic testers have a component side and a solder side, the component side having integrated circuits mounted thereon; wherein the test adaptor boards are mounted to the solder side of circuit boards of the electronic testers. 6. The multi-level test system of claim 1 further comprising a parking structure system interface, coupled to the plurality of test stations in the parking-testing structure, for commanding test stations in the plurality of test stations to apply power to activate electronic testers to test electronic devices inserted into the test sockets and for receiving test results from the electronic testers; a main system interface for controlling the loader-unloader to sort electronic devices based on the test results; a network between the parking structure system interface and the main system interface, for communicating the test results from the parking-testing structure to the loader-unloader; wherein the main system interface stores the test results while the electronic tester is being returned from the test station to the loader-unloader after testing by the test station. 7. The multi-level test system of claim 6 wherein the loader-unloader further comprises: a robotic arm, responsive to commands from the main system interface, for inserting electronic devices into the test sockets on electronic testers. 8. The multi-level test system of claim 1 wherein the parking-testing structure further comprises: an elevator for raising and lowering an electronic tester to the plurality of parking levels of the parking-testing structure; and an input level of the elevator, the input level coupled to the conveyor between the loading station and the elevator. 9. The multi-level test system of claim 8 wherein the conveyor further comprises: an input conveyor line between the loading station and the elevator; an output conveyor line between the elevator and the loading station. 10. The multi-level test system of claim 9 wherein the input conveyor line and the output conveyor line are coupled to the elevator at different levels of the elevator, whereby the input conveyor line and the output conveyor line are on two different levels. 11. The multi-level test system of claim 9 further comprising a plurality of parking conveyors on the plurality of parking levels of the parking-testing structure, a parking conveyor for moving an electronic tester from the elevator to the test station before testing, and for moving the electronic tester from the test station to the elevator after testing. 12. The multi-level test system of claim 2 wherein each test station in the plurality of test stations further comprises: a retractable connector for extending to make electrical contact with an electronic tester connector on an electronic tester. 13. A moving-electronic-tester electronic-device tester comprising: a plurality of electronic testers, an electronic tester in the plurality of electronic testers for executing a test program to test an electronic device inserted into a test socket on the electronic tester; a Device-Under-Test (DUT) loader-unloader having a robotic device that removes a tested electronic device from the test socket on the electronic tester, and that inserts an electronic device into the test socket on the electronic tester when the electronic tester is located at the DUT loader-unloader; an input highway that moves the electronic tester away from the DUT loader-unloader after the electronic device has been inserted into the test socket; an output highway that moves the electronic tester toward the DUT loader-unloader after the electronic device in the electronic tester has been tested; an elevator that receives the electronic tester from the input highway, and that returns electronic testers to the output highway, the elevator raising and lowering the electronic testers to a plurality of parking levels; a parking-testing structure having the plurality of parking levels accessible by the elevator, each parking level having a testing conveyor that receives electronic testers from the elevator; a plurality of test stations in the parking-testing structure, each test station on a parking level having a parking connector that connects to an electronic tester connector on the electronic tester when parked at the parking level, the parking connector applying power to the electronic tester to activate the electronic tester to test the electronic device in the test socket; and a network connection to the plurality of test stations for communicating test results from the plurality of test stations testing the plurality of electronic testers, wherein the test results control the DUT loader-unloader to sort electronic devices when the robotic device removes the tested electronic devices, wherein test results indicating that the electronic device failed testing are sorted into a failed group of electronic devices while test results indicating that the electronic device passed testing are sorted into a passing group of electronic devices by the robotic device, whereby electronic devices are transported from the DUT loader-unloader to the plurality of test stations by the input highway, the elevator, the testing conveyor, and the output highway that move the plurality of electronic testers between test stations and the DUT loader-unloader. 14. The moving-electronic-tester electronic-device tester of claim 13 further comprising: a plurality of movable trays that carry the plurality of electronic testers along the input highway, the elevator, the testing conveyor, and the output highway, whereby electronic testers are carried by the plurality of movable trays. 15. The moving-electronic-tester electronic-device tester of claim 14 further comprising: a test adaptor board mounted to each electronic tester, wherein the test socket is mounted on the test adaptor board, the test socket for receiving an electronic device inserted by the robotic device. 16. The moving-electronic-tester electronic-device tester of claim 14 wherein the parking-testing structure comprises at least 5 parking levels and at least 10 test stations, wherein the parking-testing structure tests at least 10 electronic testers in parallel. 17. The moving-electronic-tester electronic-device tester of claim 16 wherein the plurality of parking levels in the parking-testing structure are located vertically above each other, whereby floor space is minimized. 18. The moving-electronic-tester electronic-device tester of claim 13 wherein each test station further comprises: a test-station connector that makes electrical contact with an electronic tester connector on the electronic tester; wherein power is applied through the test-station connector and the electronic tester connector by the test station when testing the electronic device on the electronic tester. 19. A multiple-electronic-tester parking-testing structure electronic tester comprising: host system means for controlling testing of electronic devices on multiple electronic testers and for controlling movement of electronic testers by conveyors; test socket means for receiving an electronic device for testing; conveyed electronic tester means, controlled by the host system means, for executing a test program on an electronic device inserted into the test socket means; wherein the multiple-electronic-tester parking-testing structure electronic tester has a plurality of the conveyed electronic tester means, each conveyed electronic tester means for executing the test program on a different electronic device in parallel with other electronic tester means; robotic means, controlled by the host system means, for grasping an electronic device and inserting the electronic device into the test socket means, the robotic means also for grasping and removing the electronic device from the test socket means after completion of the test program, and moving the electronic device to an output means for storing tested electronic devices when the conveyed electronic tester means indicates to the host system means that the electronic device has passed the test program; test station means for applying power to the conveyed electronic tester means to activate the conveyed electronic tester means to test the electronic device inserted into the test socket means; parking-testing structure means for parking a plurality of the conveyed electronic tester means on a plurality of parking levels, each parking level having at least one test stations means, wherein the plurality of parking levels overlap each other to occupy a same floor space; wherein the plurality of parking levels and the test station means are not accessible by the robotic means; elevator means for raising and lowering the conveyed electronic tester means on an elevator table to the plurality of parking levels in the parking-testing structure means; and conveying highway means, coupled between the elevator means and a loading station that is accessible by the robotic means, for moving the conveyed electronic tester means from the loading station to the elevator means before testing, and for moving the conveyed electronic tester means from the elevator means to the loading station after testing, whereby electronic testers are moved from the loading station to a parking level in the parking-testing structure means before testing, and moved from the parking-testing structure means back to the loading station after testing. 20. The multiple-electronic-tester parking-testing structure electronic tester of claim 19 further comprising: tray means for holding the conveyed electronic tester means during transport between the loading station and the test station means. 