An improved closure for sealing the paint drain holes of a vehicle body, and a tool and method of use therefor, are disclosed. The closure takes the form of a one-piece sheet metal plug of inverted hat-shaped configuration having a peripheral flange with a thermoplastic sealant ring located beneath the flange to form a hermetic seal about the opening of the vehicle body. In use, the closure is supported, preferably magneticlly, by the head of an insertion tool and is directed by that tool into a floor pan opening or other panel opening of a vehicle body. Depending on the shape of the panel opening, the plug is then temporarily secured in place, with the sealant ring clamped between the flange of the plug and the body panel, either by a partial turn of the plug or by a tool with cam-driven dimpling elements that are forced outwardly within the cavity of the plug to produce a plurality of external enlargments or nubs. The same closure plug may be used for either type of attachment and, following such attachment, the entire assembly is heated (in the normal baking cycle of the painting operation) to soften and expand the sealant ring and produce a permanent adhesive bond between the parts. The use of the paint drain openings to support and position a vehicle prior to plug insertion and attachment is also disclosed.
Claims I claim: 1. A closure for sealing a paint drain hole in a planar portion of a vehicle body panels, said closure comprising a deformable sheet metal plug of inverted hat-shaped configuration; said plug being formed in one piece and having an imperforate bottom wall, a continuous side wall projecting upwardly from the outer limits of, said bottom wall, and a generally planar continuous perimetric flange extending outwardly from the upper end of said side wall; said side wall being curved along a substantial portion of its perimetric extent and including at least two perimetrically-spaced indented wall portions lying within a projected continuation of the curvature of said side wall; each indented wall portion having an elongated outwardly-projecting integral camming rib disposed within said projected continuation of curvature of said side wall and a thermoplastic sealant ring secured to the underside of said flange; said ribs being sloped relative to said perimetric flange and spaced from said perimetric flange a distance exceeding the thickness of said sealant ring but less than the combined thicknesses of the sealant ring and the panel at said hole; said sealant ring being heatable to expand and adhesively bond to both the underside of said flange and the planar portion of said panel adjacent said hole therein. 2. The closure of claim 1 in which said elongated camming rib is sloped at an angle within the range of about 3 to 12 degrees in relation to the plane of said perimetric flange. 3. The closure of claim 1 in which said plug has a vertical axis of rotation extending through the center of said bottom wall; said ribs being equidistant from said axis. 4. The closure of claim 3 in which said indented wall portions define generally planar surfaces surrounding each of said ribs and extending along ertical planes parallel with each other and equidistant from said ertical axis. 5. The closure of claim 1 in which said perimetric flange has a pair of diametrically-disposed upturned edge portions for gripping and rotating said plug when said plug has been inserted into a drain hole of a vehicle body panel. 6. The closure of claim 1 in which said side wall, including said projected continuation of curvature thereof, is circular in outline. 7. The closure of claim 1 in which said side wall, including said projected continuation of curvature thereof, is oval-shaped in outline. 8. The closure of claim 1 in combination with a body panel having a planar portion with a drain hole dimensioned to receive said side wall of said plug but smaller than said sealant ring and said perimetric flange. 9. The combination of claim 8 in which said drain hole of said panel matches the curved outline of said side wall including said projected continuations of curvature thereof. 10. The combination of claim 9 in which said body panel includes a rim extending about said drain hole at substantially right angles to said planar portion of said panel; said rim of said panel extending about said side wall and away from said perimetric flange of said plug. 11. The combination of claim 10 in which said side wall of said plug is outwardly dimpled at perimetrically-spaced points points to provide nubs tightly engaging said rim and securing said plug and panel together. 12. The combination of claim 9 in which said body panel is provided with at least two integral tab portions projecting into said drain hole and into the spaces defined by the indented wall poritons of said plug; said tab portions being engageable with said ribs when said plug is rotated within said hole for locking said panel and plug together. 13. The closure of claim 1 in which the sheet metal of said plug is magnetically attractable. 14. The closure of claim 1 in which said bottom wall of said plug is flat. 15. The closure of claim 1 in which said bottom wall of said plug is dome shaped. 16. The closure of claim 15 in which said dome-shaped bottom wall has a raised central portion lying along generally the same plane as said perimetric flange. 