Toy apparatus in a playset including a robotic arm module for handling toy vehicles advanced along a path past a plurality of stations including a pickup station, an immersion station, and an exit station. The robotic arm module has gripper members actuatable for picking up the toy vehicle at the pickup station, then dipping the toy vehicle into a liquid and then depositing the toy vehicle at an exit station. The robotic arm apparatus is in the form of a parallelogram linkage which enables twisting action of the gripper members as well as up and down and sideways movement.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Toy apparatus including a robotic arm for handling toy members, comprising: a housing; a track positioned on the housing for defining a predetermined path past a plurality of stations including a pickup station, an immersion station, and an exit station, and a robotic arm positioned on said housing, said robotic arm having a first elongated member having a major axis and including actuatable gripper members pivotally coupled to the distal end and a control member at the proximal end; a first pivot including a first universal joint supporting first elongated member to be pivotable on a first axis for vertical movement and rotatable about its major axis; and a second pivot supporting said first elongated member to be pivotable on a second axis for movement in a horizontal plane, whereby said gripper members can be controlled to pick up a toy member at the pickup station and dip the toy member at the immersion station, and deposit the toy member at the exit station. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said first universal joint is made of very low coefficient of friction material. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said robotic arm includes a second elongated member having first and second ends coupled to said first pivot and said actuatable gripper members by second and third universal joints respectively and wherein said first and second elongated members are supported to form parallel sides of a parallelogram whereby twisting movement may be imparted to the gripper members to selectively dip the toy member at the ends thereof at the option of an operator. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein said immersion station includes at least one container of liquid at a predetermined temperature to cause a change in the color of the toy member. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said track includes a rotatable member to advance each toy member form an entry station towards the pickup station. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5 including a pivotably ramp member at the entry station actuatable for lifting a toy member and advancing the toy member towards the rotatable member. 7. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said gripper members are configured to receive toy members which are toy vehicles. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said immersion station includes a plurality of containers, each containing a liquid at a different temperature sufficient to cause a change in the color of the toy member. 9. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said exit station includes a ramp member to exit each toy member from the housing. 10. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said housing is hollow to define a storage area for the toy members and rotobic arm. 11. Apparatus according to claim 10 including a cover member having a handle for carrying the toy apparatus. 12. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said housing has a plurality of slots formed therein and including a cover member having a peripheral wall that in a first position has the wall received by said slots and in a second position has the wall coextensive with the housing to define a container. 13. Robotic arm apparatus for handling toy members, comprising: a frame; a first arm member having actuatable gripper members disposed at the distal end and a control member disposed at the proximal end thereof; a first universal joint pivotally securing said first arm member to said frame; a second arm member extending parallel to said first arm member and having first and second ends; a second universal joint connecting said first end to said frame; a third universal joint connecting said second end to said distal end of said first arm member, whereby a twisting movement may be imparted to the gripper members thereby twisting the toy member at the option of an operator. 14. Apparatus according to claim 13 wherein said universal joints are made of very low coefficient of friction material. 