An embodied music system. The system creates an interactive interface between a listener and the external environment. The system includes a physical device located in the environment that provides sensory input to the listener. An audio signal of the system is adapted to be heard by the listener. An encoder embeds inaudible control data into the audio signal. A decoder extracts the control data from the audio signal and transmits the control data to the physical device, thereby controlling operation of the device. Finally, an audio reproduction device is connected to the decoder and plays the audio signal for the listener. The embodied music system allows the listener to experience multi-sensory compositions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An embodied music system, creating an interactive interface between a listener and the external environment, the system comprising: a physical device located in the environment and providing sensory input to the listener; an audio signal adapted to be heard by the listener; an encoder embedding control data inaudible to the listener into the audio signal using high frequency temporal coding, adding to the audio signal a high-frequency carrier signal, the encoder including (a) a frequency-domain filter adapted to clear all frequencies of a fast Fourier Transform analysis of the audio signal above about 15 kHz and create a filtered file; (b) a summation device adapted to sum the filtered file, after the filtered file has been returned to a time-domain signal, with the control data as embedded into the carrier signal to create a sound file; and (c) means for recording or storing the sound file; a decoder extracting the control data from the sound file and transmitting the control data to the physical device, thereby controlling operation of the device; and an audio reproduction device connected to the decoder and playing the audio signal for the listener, whereby the listener experiences multi-sensory compositions. 2. The embodied music system according to claim 1 wherein the physical device is a light, a surface, a musical instrument, a robot, a kinetic sculpture, a thermal control, a scent generator, a sound generator, or a taste generator. 3. The embodied music system according to claim 2 wherein the sensory input is at least one of light, scent, sound, tactile, thermal, and taste. 4. The embodied music system according to claim 1 wherein the encoder embeds the control data into the audio signal in a manner that is compliant with current digital audio standards. 5. The embodied music system according to claim 1 wherein the encoder embeds the control data into the audio signal using digital watermarking or hidden data encoding methods. 6. The embodied music system according to claim 1 wherein the control data is embedded into the carrier signal with a frequency limited by the upper-bounds of the digital audio standard used and by the lower-bounds of the human ear's insensitivity to high frequency audio content. 7. The embodied music system according to claim 1 wherein the control data is embedded into the carrier signal with a frequency limited by the upper-bounds of the digital audio standard used and by the lower-bounds of 17.5 kHz. 8. The embodied music system according to claim 1 wherein the control data is embedded into the carrier signal with a frequency of 18 kHz in a manner that is compliant with current digital audio standards. 9. The embodied music system according to claim 1 wherein the encoder and the decoder use amplitude modulation. 10. The embodied music system according to claim 1 wherein the encoder and the decoder use inter-signal discrimination. 11. The embodied music system according to claim 1 wherein the decoder transmits the control data to the physical device using BlueTooth technology. 12. The embodied music system according to claim 1 further including an input adapted to receive data from the external environment. 13. An embodied music system, creating an interactive interface between a listener and the external environment, the system comprising: a physical device located in the environment and providing sensory input to the listener; an audio signal adapted to be heard by the listener; an encoder embedding control data inaudible to the listener into the audio signal using high frequency temporal coding, adding to the audio signal a high-frequency carrier signal, the encoder including (a) a frequency-domain filter adapted to clear all frequencies of a fast Fourier Transform analysis of the audio signal above about 15 kHz and create a filtered file; (b) a summation device adapted to sum the filtered file, after the filtered file has been returned to a time-domain signal, with the control data as embedded into the carrier signal to create a sound file; and (c) means for recording or storing the sound file; a decoder extracting the control data from the sound file and transmitting the control data to the physical device, thereby controlling operation of the device; an audio reproduction device connected to the decoder and playing the audio signal for the listener; and a connector adapted to enable connection of the embodied music system to a second embodied music system, creating a string of systems, whereby the listener experiences multi-sensory compositions. 14. An embodied music system, creating an interactive interface between a listener and the external environment, the system comprising: a physical device located in the environment and providing sensory input to the listener; an audio signal adapted to be heard by the listener; an encoder embedding control data inaudible to the listener into the audio signal using high frequency temporal coding, adding to the audio signal a high-frequency carrier signal in a manner that is compliant with current digital audio standards, transmitting the inaudible control data within the audio signal by exploiting the insensitivity of the human ears to small phase differences between two signals one presented to each ear, and transmitting each of the embedded carrier signals at constant and low amplitude; a decoder extracting the control data from the audio signal and transmitting the control data to the physical device, thereby controlling operation of the device; and an audio reproduction device connected to the decoder and playing the audio signal for the listener, whereby the listener experiences multi-sensory compositions. 15. The embodied music system according to claim 14 wherein the physical device is a light, a surface, a musical instrument, a robot, a kinetic sculpture, a thermal control, a scent generator, a sound generator, or a taste generator. 16. The embodied music system according to claim 15 wherein the sensory input is at least one of light, scent, sound, tactile, thermal, and taste. 17. The embodied music system according to claim 14 wherein the control data is embedded into the carrier signal with a frequency limited by the upper-bounds of the digital audio standard used and by the lower-bounds of the human ear's insensitivity to high frequency audio content. 18. The embodied music system according to claim 14 further including a connector adapted to enable connection of the embodied music system to a second embodied music system, creating a string of systems. 19. The embodied music system according to claim 14 further including an input adapted to receive data from the external environment. 20. An embodied music system, creating an interactive interface between a listener and the external environment, the system comprising: a physical device selected from the group consisting of a light, a surface, a musical instrument, a robot, a kinetic sculpture, a thermal control, a scent generator, a sound generator, or a taste generator located in the environment and providing sensory input to the listener, the sensory input being at least one of light, scent, tactile, thermal, and taste; an audio signal adapted to be heard by the listener; an encoder embedding control data inaudible to the listener into the audio signal using high frequency temporal coding, adding to the audio signal a high-frequency carrier signal in a manner that is compliant with current digital audio standards, the encoder including (a) a frequency-domain filter adapted to clear all frequencies of a fast Fourier Transform analysis of the audio signal above about 15 kHz and create a filtered file, (b) a summation device adapted to sum the filtered file, after the filtered file has been returned to a time-domain signal, with the control data as modulated onto an 18 KHz wave to create a sound file, and (c) means for recording or storing the sound file; a decoder extracting the control data from the audio signal and transmitting the control data to the physical device, thereby controlling operation of the device; an audio reproduction device connected to the decoder and playing the audio signal for the listener, whereby the listener experiences multi-sensory compositions; a connector adapted to enable connection of the embodied music system to a second embodied music system, creating a string of systems; and an input adapted to receive data from the environment external to the system. 