A manipulator includes a composite input unit that is manually operable by the fingers, a connector shaft extending from an operating unit, and a working unit mounted on the distal end of the connector shaft. The working unit comprises a rolling mechanism, a tilting mechanism, and an opening and closing mechanism. The composite input unit includes a shuttle ring for actuating the rolling mechanism. The manipulator also includes a gripper for gripping a curved needle. The gripper is placed near a DVC, whereupon the rolling mechanism is actuated to roll the gripper and to pierce a living body with the curved needle, until the point of the curved needle projects outside of the living body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An intracoelomic suturing and ligating method for use in performing a prostatectomy with a manipulator having an operating unit to be gripped by hand, a connector extending from the operating unit, and a working unit mounted on a distal end of the connector and including a rolling mechanism, a tilting mechanism, and an opening and closing mechanism, the method comprising the steps of: a) inserting said working unit into a body cavity in a living body; b) gripping a curved needle with said opening and closing mechanism; c) tilting said opening and closing mechanism with said tilting mechanism; d) placing said opening and closing mechanism near a dorsal vein complex (DVC) within said body cavity; and e) actuating said rolling mechanism to angularly move said opening and closing mechanism while keeping said opening and closing mechanism parallel with said DVC, so as to pierce said curved needle into body tissues of the living body around said DVC until a needle point of said curved needle projects from the body tissues, f) gripping said curved needle projecting from the body tissues with said opening and closing mechanism, g) actuating said rolling mechanism to angularly move said opening and closing mechanism while gripping said curved needle and keeping said opening and closing mechanism parallel with said DVC until said curved needle is pulled out from the body tissues, h) ligating said DVC after said curved needle is removed from the body tissues. 2. An intracoelomic suturing and ligating method according to claim 1, wherein said manipulator has an input unit comprising two finger holders disposed one on each side of a central line passing through a rotational axis thereof, for operating said rolling mechanism in response to turning movements thereof. 3. An intracoelomic suturing and ligating method according to claim 1, wherein said step c) comprises tilting said opening and closing mechanism through an angle of about 90.degree. from the center of an operating range thereof, with said tilting mechanism. 4. An intracoelomic suturing and ligating method according to claim 1, wherein said step e) comprises angularly moving said opening and closing mechanism through an angle of about 90.degree. from the center of an operating range thereof, with said rolling mechanism. 5. An intracoelomic suturing and ligating method according to claim 1, wherein said manipulator is a first manipulator, and the curved needle is gripped by said opening and closing mechanism of the first manipulator in step b), said steps a) through e) are carried out by the first manipulator, and said steps f) and g) are carried out by a second manipulator. 6. An intracoelomic suturing and ligating method according to claim 5, further comprising the step of: i) after said step e) and before said step f), tilting said opening and closing mechanism through an angle of about 90.degree. from the center of an operating range thereof, with said tilting mechanism of the second manipulator. 7. An intracoelomic suturing and ligating method according to claim 5, further comprising the step of: j) after said step e) and before said step f), angularly moving said opening and closing mechanism through an angle of about 90.degree. from the center of an operating range thereof, with said rolling mechanism of the second manipulator. 8. An intracoelomic suturing and ligating method according to claim 1, wherein said manipulator is a first manipulator, and the curved needle is gripped by said opening and closing mechanism of the first manipulator in step b), and further comprising a second manipulator, the step (h) further comprising after said curved needle is pulled out of the body tissues, tilting said opening and closing mechanism through an angle of about 90.degree. from the center of an operating range thereof, with said tilting mechanism of the second manipulator, and moving a strand connected to said curved needle with said opening and closing mechanism of the first manipulator so as to wind the strand around said opening and closing mechanism of the second manipulator. 9. An intracoelomic suturing and ligating method according to claim 8, further comprising the step of: k) operating the rolling mechanism of the second manipulator to set said opening and closing mechanism in an orientation for gripping a portion of said strand, which remains to be inserted into the body tissues. 10. An intracoelomic suturing and ligating method according to claim 1, the step (h) further comprising pulling said curved needle out of the body tissues, holding a strand connected to said curved needle with said opening and closing mechanism, and actuating said tilting mechanism to tilt said opening and closing mechanism, thereby pulling said strand when said DVC is ligated by said strand. 