A pallet for feeding components to a robotic assembly system at accurate reference locations and orientations includes a pair of parallel sheet members rigidly secured together. One sheet member has an array of locating apertures for receiving and locating a plurality of the components in the reference locations and orientation. The other sheet member has an array of rubber grommets, a grommet corresponding to each locating aperture for automatically receiving and releasably, frictionally engaging a component placed in a locating aperture.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A pallet for releasably securing an array of workpieces in predetermined locations and orientations comprising: first means including a member having a plurality of circular apertures and adapted to receive and locate each workpiece on a member surface in a predetermined location on a respective axis and in a predetermined angular orientation about the respective axis; and second means secured in spaced relation to said first means including a resilient workpiece friction gripping means adjacent to each location and adapted to resiliently, releasably, and frictionally engage and hold the workpiece to said first means in said predetermined location and orientation upon the receiving of the workpiece by the first means; each aperture serving as one of said predetermined locations, said member including an array of pins secured to a surface thereof, each pin corresponding to a different one of said apertures, each pin in a given radial position adjacent to the center of the corresponding aperture and adapted to engage a mating reference hole in the workpiece to be received and located in said corresponding aperture. 2. The pallet of claim 1 wherein said gripping means has a surface corresponding to a workpiece surface and being adapted to resiliently grasp that received element surface in interference fit. 3. The pallet of claim 1 wherein, each aperture corresponding to a separate, different workpiece for locating a given corresponding mating workpiece portion in first and second orthogonal directions. 4. The pallet of claim 1 wherein said second means includes a planar member having an array of apertures therein and a compliant rubber element adapted to receive and hold a corresponding workpiece thereto, each aperture corresponding to a separate, different one of said first means, each said aperture being adapted to receive and hold said rubber element. 5. The pallet of claim 4 wherein said rubber elements each comprise a tubular rubber member having an external annular groove, said annular groove being adapted to receive said planar member of the second means. 6. A pallet assembly for carrying, locating, and holding an array of workpieces, each in a predetermined location and angular orientation at that location comprising: a first sheet member including workpiece locating means comprising an array of apertures, each passing through the first sheet member and adapted to releasably receive, angularly orient and locate a corresponding workpiece inserted therein, each said aperture and surface defining a separate, different predetermined location and angular orientation for each correspondingly received workpiece; and a second sheet member secured to the first sheet member, said second sheet member including a plurality of resilient elements secured thereto, each element adjacent to a corresponding one of said apertures, said elements and apertures being adapted such that said element releasably and frictionally abuts a surface of the received workpiece in interference fit thereto for securing that abutting workpiece to said first and second sheet members, said first member apertures each being circular holes, each said first member including an array of pins secured to a surface thereof, each pin corresponding to a different one of said apertures in the first sheet member, each pin in a given radial position adjacent to the center of the corresponding aperture and adapted to engage a mating reference hole in the workpiece to be received and located in said corresponding aperture. 7. The assembly of claim 6 wherein said workpiece has a circular cylindrical element depending therefrom and a flange member with said mating reference hole therein, each said apertures being dimensioned to closely receive and locate a cylindrical element therein. 8. The assembly of claim 6 wherein said workpiece includes a cylindrical member, said resilient friction element having a central aperture shaped the same as said cylindrical element and of smaller transverse dimension to compressibly receive said element therein. 9. A workpiece pallet for locating a workpiece relative to a reference angular orientation at a given location comprising: a workpiece locating sheet member including a plurality of workpiece receiving and locating means, each locating means comprising an aperture adapted to receive and angularly locate a workpiece relative to said reference orientation and location in at least three orthogonal directions; and a workpiece securing sheet member secured to the locating sheet member and including a plurality of workpiece gripping means, each for automatically releasably receiving and frictionally, slidably gripping a corresponding located workpiece when received; said locating sheet member including an array of pins secured to a surface thereof, each pin corresponding to a different one of said apertures in that sheet member, each pin in a given radial position adjacent to the center of the corresponding aperture and adapted to engage a mating reference hole in the workpiece to be received and located in said corresponding aperture. 10. The pallet of claim 9 wherein said apertures for locating said workpiece in said three directions, the pins for locating said workpiece in a fourth angular direction relative to one of said three directions, said workpiece securing sheet members being dimensioned and constructed to hold said gripped workpiece thereto in any orientation regardless of effects of gravity. 