A rigid three-dimensional preform is made by moving a plurality of webs of fibrous reinforcement material superposed and coplanar to a cutter, the webs being coated with an electromagnetic energy-curable binder and pressed together. Prior to cutting a blank in a two-dimensional development of the three-dimensional preform from the webs, the webs are tacked together at spaced local zones by locally curing the binder at those zones by locally applying the appropriate electromagnetic radiation (microwave, ultraviolet, electron) so that the webs travel as one to the cutter. After cutting of the blank, the blank is loaded into a mold to replicate the three-dimensional shape of the preform and the remainder of the binder is cured in the mold by the application of the appropriate electromagnetic radiation. An auxiliary member may be attached to the preform by applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder to at least one location on the preform, moving the auxiliary member into a desired position and intimate contact with the binder-coated location and the binder cured at that location by the application of the appropriate electromagnetic radiation.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of making a rigid three-dimensional preform, comprising the steps of: (a) moving a plurality of webs of fibrous reinforcing material along respective paths and guiding the webs superposed such that they superpose parallel to one another at a predetermined location and travel parallel to and in contact with one another; (b) applying an uncured electromagnetic radiation-curable binder to at least one surface of each pair of facing surfaces of the webs upstream of the predetermined location; (c) locally applying electromagnetic radiation into selected spaced locations of the parallel contacting webs to cure the binder at the spaced locations and thereby tack the webs together; (d) cutting a blank of a predetermined shape from the tacked webs of fibrous reinforcing material; (e) forming the blank into a desired three-dimensional shape of the preform; and (f) applying electromagnetic radiation to the shaped blank to cure remaining uncured binder and rigidize the shaped blank to produce the rigid three-dimensional preform. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (e) of forming is further defined as: (e1) placing the blank between first and second shaped parts of a tool, which parts are shaped to replicate the desired three-dimensional shape of the preform; and (e2) pressing the two parts of the tool together to shape the blank while applying the electromagnetic energy in the step (f) to cure the binder. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (b) of applying the binder is further defined as: (b1) spraying the binder on at least one surface of each pair of facing surfaces of the webs upstream of the predetermined location. 4. The method of claim 1, and further comprising the step of: (g) pressing the webs together at and downstream of the predetermined location to spread the binder and improve permeation of the binder into the webs. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps (b) and (c) of applying the binder and locally applying electromagnetic radiation are respectively further defined as: (b1) applying an uncured microwave energy-curable binder to the at least one facing surface of each pair of facing surfaces of the webs; and (c1) locally applying microwave radiation into the selected locations. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps (b) and (c) of applying the binder resin and locally applying electromagnetic radiation are respectively further defined as: (b1) applying an uncured ultraviolet energy-curable binder to the at least one surface of each pair of facing surfaces of the webs; and (c1) locally applying ultraviolet radiation into the selected locations. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (c) of locally applying electromagnetic radiation into the selected locations is further defined as: (c1) generating electromagnetic energy with an electromagnetic energy source; (c2) moving the source across the moving webs; and (c3) periodically transmitting the electromagnetic radiation from the source to the webs. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (b) of applying an uncured electromagnetic energy-curable binder and the step (c) of locally applying electromagnetic radiation into the selected locations are respectively further defined as: (b1) applying an uncured microwave energy-curable binder; (c1) generating microwave energy with a microwave energy source; (c2) moving the source across the moving webs; and (c3) periodically transmitting the microwave energy from the source to the webs. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (b) of applying an uncured electromagnetic energy-curable binder and the step (c) of locally applying electromagnetic radiation into the selected locations are respectively further defined as: (b1) applying an uncured ultraviolet energy-curable binder; (c1) generating ultraviolet energy with an ultraviolet energy source; (c2) moving the source across the moving webs; and (c3) periodically transmitting the ultraviolet energy from the source to the webs. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps (b), (c) and (f) of applying the uncured binder, locally applying the electromagnetic radiation into the selected locations and applying electromagnetic radiation to the shaped blank are respectively further defined as: (b1) applying a microwave energy-curable binder to the at least one surface of each pair of facing surfaces of the webs; (c1) locally applying microwave radiation into the selected locations; and (f1) applying microwave radiation to the shaped blank. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps (b), (c) and (f) of applying the uncured binder resin, locally applying the electromagnetic radiation into the selected locations and applying the electromagnetic radiation to the shaped blank are respectively further defined as: (b1) applying an ultraviolet energy-curable binder to the at least one surface of each pair of facing surfaces of the webs; (c1) locally applying ultraviolet radiation into the selected locations; and (f1) applying ultraviolet radiation to the shaped blank. 12. In a method of making a rigid three-dimensional preform in which layers of reinforcement material which include fibers are cut into shaped elements, provided with electromagnetic energy-curable binder, layered into a mat and pressed into a desired shape of the preform in a mold, and in which the pressed shaped layers are rigidized by applying electromagnetic energy thereto while in the mold to cure the binder and thereby rigidize the pressed shaped layers, the improvement therein comprising the steps of: (a) prior to cutting into the shaped elements, unrolling and guiding webs of the reinforcement material to superpose the webs parallel with respect to one another; (b) spraying at least one surface of each pair of facing surfaces of the webs with electromagnetic energy-curable binder such that the binder is located between all facing surfaces of the webs; (c) pressing the superposed webs together to spread the binder and to increase contact thereof with the fibers of the reinforcement material; and (d) applying electromagnetic energy to spaced zones of the superposed webs to locally cure the binder thereat and tack the webs together. 13. In a method of making a rigid three-dimensional preform in which layers of glass fiber reinforcement material which include fibers are cut into shaped elements, at least partially coated with electromagnetic energy-curable binder, layered into a mat and the mat pressed into a desired shape of the preform in a mold, and in which the pressed shaped mats are cured by applying electromagnetic radiation thereto while in the mold to rigidize the pressed shaped mat, the improvement therein comprising the steps of: (a) prior to cutting into the shaped elements, unrolling and guiding webs of the glass fiber reinforcement material to superpose the webs; (b) spraying at least one surface of selected ones of the glass fiber reinforcement material webs with ultraviolet energy-curable binder such that the binder is located between all facing surfaces of the webs; (c) pressing the superposed glass fiber reinforcement webs together to spread the binder and to increase contact thereof with the fibers of the reinforcement material; and (d) applying ultraviolet radiation to spaced zones of the superposed webs to locally cure the binder in the spaced zones and tack the webs of glass fiber reinforcement material together. 14. In a method of making a rigid three-dimensional preform in which layers of glass fiber reinforcement material which include fibers are cut into shaped elements, at least partially coated with electromagnetic energy-curable binder, layered into a mat and the mat pressed into a desired shape of the preform in a mold, and in which the press shaped mat is cured by applying electromagnetic energy thereto while in the mold to rigidize the pressed shaped mat, the improvement therein comprising the steps of: (a) prior to cutting into the shaped elements, unrolling and guiding webs of the glass fiber reinforcement material to superpose the webs; (b) spraying at least one surface of selected ones of the glass fiber reinforcement material webs with microwave energy-curable binder such that the binder is located between all facing surfaces of the webs; (c) pressing the superposed webs together to spread the binder and to increase contact thereof with the fibers of the reinforcement material; and (d) applying microwave radiation to spaced zones of the superposed webs of glass fiber reinforcement material to locally cure the binder in the spaced zones and tack the webs together. 