A safety control block interfaces to one or more devices utilizing one or more communication protocols wherein a network interface receives and/or transmits data directly from a network. A backplane interface receives and/or transmits data from a backplane. A backplane extension receives and/or transmits data from a backplane. A processing component receives data from at least one of the network interface, backplane interface and backplane extension and determines if the received data is related to safety or non-safety. A safety I/O circuitry receives safety data from the processing component; wherein the safety data is utilized to communicate to at least one control device.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system that facilitates communication of safety and non-safety data within a control network, comprising: a universal safety block that receives safety and non-safety data from an outside source via one or more of a network interface that receives and/or transmits data directly from a network, a backplane interface that receives and/or transmits data from a backplane, and a backplane extension that receives and/or transmits data from a backplane; a processing component that receives data from at least one of the network interface, the backplane interface and the backplane extension, determines if the received data is safety data or non-safety data, and routes the safety data to a safety channel and the non-safety data to a non-safety data channel; and safety input/output (I/O) circuitry that receives the safety data from the processing component via the safety channel, wherein the safety data is utilized to communicate to at least one control device within the control network. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the processing component further includes: a logic control circuit that analyzes the received data and determines if the data is related to safety or non-safety. 3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the processing component further includes: a safety data table that receives safety data from the logic control circuit, wherein the processing component processes the received data and communicates the safety data to the safety I/O circuitry. 4. The system according to claim 3, wherein the safety data table contains a list of safety data that is compared to the received data to determine if the received data is safety or non-safety data. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein data is transmitted redundantly via two channels throughout the network such that a first channel transmits normal data and a second channel transmits inverted data. 6. The system according to claim 5, wherein data from the first channel is crosschecked against data from the second channel to verify data integrity. 7. The system according to claim 2, wherein the processing component further includes: a bridging element that receives non-safety data from the logic control circuit and transmits this data to one or more control elements. 8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the safety control module is housed in a form factor that substantially protects against dust and the effect of immersion between 15 cm and 1 m of liquid. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the safety control module executes firmware to determine if safety data is defective. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein one or more data values are set to a pre-determined safe state if the data is determined to be defective. 11. The system according to claim 1, wherein the network communicates utilizing at least one of a DeviceNet, a ControlNet, a Control Area Network (CAN) and an EtherNet/Internet (IP) protocol. 12. A field input/output (I/O) component that processes safety and non-safety data within an industrial control architecture, comprising: a non-safety I/O component that receives data related to both safety and non-safety from an outside source, determines if the data is safety data or non-safety data, processes the non-safety data and communicates the safety data outside the non-safety I/O component by routing the safety data to a safety channel and the non-safety data to a non-safety data channel; wherein the non-safety I/O component comprises a logic control circuit configured to determine if the data is safety data is based at least in part upon interfacing with a safety data table; wherein the safety data table contains a list of known safety data configured to be compared by the logic control circuit with the received data to determine that the received data is safety data when the received data and data in the list match one another; an expansion port that is coupled to the non-safety I/O component that allows one or more components to communicate with the non-safety I/O component; and a universal safety block coupled to the expansion port that receives, processes and outputs the safety data to one or more components. 13. The field I/O component according to claim 12, wherein the non-safety I/O component is a modular component. 14. The field I/O component according to claim 12, wherein the non-safety I/O component is a block component. 15. The field I/O component according to claim 12, wherein at least one of the non-safety I/O component and the universal safety block employ updatable firmware to process received data. 16. The field I/O component according to claim 12, wherein communication to one or more external devices is accomplished utilizing at least one of a DeviceNet, a ControlNet, a Control Area Network (CAN) and an EtherNet/Internet Protocol (IP) Protocol. 17. The field I/O component according to claim 12, further including: a monitoring component that analyzes received data and sets one or more outputs of the safety I/O component to a pre-determined safe state if the received safety data is defective. 18. The field I/O component according to claim 12, wherein at least one of the non-safety I/O component and the universal safety block communicate directly to an industrial automation fieldbus. 19. A method for processing data within a control architecture, comprising: receiving data from a control network; determining if the data is related to safety based at least in part upon interfacing with a safety table; inferring data received is safety data or non-safety data with an artificial intelligence component coupled to a memory with the safety table stored therein based on one or more factors; routing the safety data to a safety channel and the non-safety data to a non-safety data channel; transmitting data related to safety to a safety input/output (I/O) component; and processing the safety data via the safety I/O component. 20. The method according to claim 19, further comprising: transmitting the non-safety data at least one of to and from a non-safety I/O component; and processing the non-safety data via the non-safety I/O component. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the factors comprise a data value, a data source, a data format, associated metadata, and overhead. 