Disclosed are oligonucleotide amplification primers and detection probes specific for the amplification and detection of pathogenic organisms, including for example, specific Influenza A H1N1 viral isolates. Also disclosed is a biological organism identification kit including the disclosed nucleic acid probes and primers, as well as thermal cycling reagents that is both portable and durable, and may also be self-contained for remote, or in-field analysis and identification of particular influenza isolates from a variety of biological specimen types.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting the presence of an Influenza A H1N1 2009 subtype-specific viral nucleic acid segment in a population of polynucleotides, which method comprises: (a) performing a cycling step, wherein the cycling step comprises contacting the population of polynucleotides with a first pair of complimentary amplification primers wherein one primer contains the sequence of SEQ ID NO 51 and the other primer contains the sequence of SEQ ID NO 52 and performing a PCR amplification to produce an Influenza A H1N1 2009 subtype specific amplification product if an Influenza A H1N1 2009 subtype-specific nucleic acid segment is present in the population; and (b) detecting the presence of the amplification product using a first labeled oligonucleotide detection probe that specifically hybridizes to the H1N1 2009 subtype-specific, amplification product, wherein the presence of the amplification product is indicative of the presence of the Influenza A H1N1 2009 subtype-specific viral nucleic acid segment in the population. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the amplification primers are about 25 to about 50 nucleotides in length. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the amplification primers are about 25 to about 40 nucleotides in length. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first labeled oligonucleotide detection probe is about 20 to about 50 nucleotides in length, and comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO 53. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first labeled oligonucleotide detection probe is about 20 to about 40 nucleotides in length. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the population of polynucleotides is contained within a biological sample. 7. A biological organism identification product that comprises: (a) a collection device to collect a biological sample that contains organisms; (b) a fixing and, transporting composition present in an amount sufficient to kill the organisms contained within the biological sample; (c) an extraction member to extract a sufficient amount of nucleic acid from the organisms to facilitate identification thereof; and (d) a stable polymerase chain reaction (PCR) component into which the sufficient amount of nucleic acid can be added, and further wherein the PCR component comprises (i) a first pair of complimentary amplification primers that are derived from Influenza A H1N1 2009, wherein the pair of primers comprises: (1) a first primer of about 25 to about 50 nucleotides in length that comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:51; and (2) a second primer of about 25 to about 50 nucleotides in length that comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:52; and (ii) an oligonucleotide detection probe for detecting an Influenza A H1N1 2009 subtype viral-specific nucleic acid, comprising: (1) a first oligonucleotide detection probe of about 20 to about 50 nucleotides in length that comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:53; and (2) at least a first detection reagent operably linked to the oligonucleotide detection probe. 8. A method of identifying a subtype of Influenza A virus in a sample, which method comprises: detecting the presence of a nucleic acid segment derived from Influenza virus, if present, in a population of polynucleotides obtained from the sample using a first labeled oligonucleotide detection probe that is specific for the nucleic acid segment; and if the nucleic acid segment is present in the population of polynucleotides, then further identifying a subtype of Influenza A virus within the population of polynucleotides using a second labeled oligonucleotide detection probe of about 18 to about 50 nucleotides in length that comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:53, wherein the subtype of Influenza A virus is an H1N1 2009 subtype. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the further identifying is performed by contacting the nucleic acid segment with the second labeled oligonucleotide detection probe, and then detecting a hybridization product. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising identifying a second subtype of Influenza A virus using a third labeled oligonucleotide probe that is specific for an H1-specific subtype of Influenza A virus other than H1N1 2009. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the third labeled oligonucleotide detection probe comprises a nucleic acid sequence selected from the group consisting of the sequence of SEQ ID NOs 54, 56, or 58. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the first oligonucleotide probe or the second oligonucleotide probe is labeled at its 5'-terminus with FAM. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the first pair of Influenza A H1N1 2009 subtype-specific viral amplification primers and the first labeled oligonucleotide detection probe do not hybridize to a nucleic acid segment obtained from a non-H1N1 2009 subtype of Influenza A virus. 14. The method of claim 10, further wherein the detection of the first Influenza A subtype and the second Influenza subtype is performed sequentially. 15. The method of claim 8, further, comprising identifying a second subtype of Influenza A virus using a third labeled oligonucleotide probe that is specific for an H3- or an H5-subtype of Influenza A virus. 16. A method for detecting an Influenza A H1N1 2009 subtype-specific viral nucleic acid segment in a population of polynucleotides suspected of containing the segment, comprising: (a) performing thermal cycling, which comprises amplifying the segment by contacting the population of polynucleotides with a first pair of complimentary Influenza A H1N12009 subtype-specific viral amplification primers to produce an Influenza A H1N1 2009 subtype-specific viral amplification product if an Influenza A H1N1 2009 subtype-specific viral nucleic acid segment is present in the population of polynucleotides; and (b) detecting the presence of the amplification product using a first labeled oligonucleotide detection probe that is specific for the H1N1 2009 amplification, product, wherein the presence of the amplification product is indicative of the presence of Influenza A H1N1 2009-specific nucleic acid segments in the population of polynucleotides, wherein the pair of amplification primers comprises: 1) a first oligonucleotide primer of about 25 to about 50 nucleotides in length that comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:51; and 2) a second oligonucleotide primer of about 25 to about 50 nucleotides in length that comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:52; and wherein the detection probe comprises a first oligonucleotide probe of about 18 to about 50 nucleotides in length that comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:53. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the a first oligonucleotide primer consists of the sequence of SEQ ID NO:51, the second oligonucleotide primer consists of the sequence of SEQ ID NO:52, and the detection probe consists of the Sequence of SEQ ID NQ 53. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the population of polynucleotides is obtained from a biological sample. 19. The method of claim 6, wherein the biological sample comprises blood, plasma, serum, cells, tissue, or any combination thereof. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the first labeled detection probe is labeled with a radioactive; luminescent, chemiluminescent, fluorescent, enzymatic, magnetic, or spin-resonance label. 21. The method of claim 7, wherein the component comprises buffers, enzymes, and reagents for performing a polymerase chain reaction. 