Wire harnesses are automatically fabricated with pre-cut and preconfigured ends in a robotic wire harness assembly system including a wire preparation subsystem, a wire reeling subsystem, a wire terminating subsystem, a wire queuing subsystem, a layup subsystem, associated robots, and a logic controller.
Claims We claim: 1. A wire harness assembly system using robots to cut wires, to automatically configure the pre-cut wires, and to assemble the pre-configured wires into the desired wire harness, comprising: (a) a wire preparation subsystem for selecting a predetermined wire and for cutting that wire to a predetermined length; (b) a wire reeling subsystem, including a movable table having at least one wire canister holder and a wire canister for holding the pre-cut wire from the wire preparation subsystem; (c) a wire terminating subsystem for configuring the ends of the wire within the canister; (d) a wire queuing subsystem for holding the canister in a bay between the wire terminating subsystem and a layup subsystem; (e) a layup subsystem including a layup robot which travels over a form board to position the wire in the canister into the predetermined pattern of the wire harness; (f) a transport robot to move a loaded canister from the wire reeling subsystem to the wire terminating subsystem, and then to the queuing subsystem, and to move an empty canister from the queuing subsystem to the wire reeling subsystem; and (g) logic control means associated with each of the subsystems for controlling automated assembly of a wire harness into a predetermined configuration. PG,21 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the wire preparation subsystem includes means for marking each wire selected and cut in the subsystem. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the wire terminating subsystem includes an automatic wire stripper, a wire twister, and a contact crimper. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the wire queuing subsystem includes at least two bays, each bay being adapted for receiving a canister and including means for revolving from a first position where the transport robot can acquire or deposit a canister in the bay and a second position where the layup robot can acquire or deposit a canister. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the logic control means includes a master system computer for transmitting commands regarding layup and assembly of the wire harness to the subsystems, wherein the several subsystems are slaves to the master computer. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein the layup robot travels in a predetermined plane above the form board and guides the laying of each wire segment into the harness with a plurality of tools positioned on the form board at predetermined locations. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the wire reeling subsystem includes at least two wire canister holders, one holder positioning a canister for loading wire segments from the wire preparation subsystem and the second holder positioning a loaded canister for a transport robot which conveys the canister through the wire terminating subsystem. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the wire terminating subsystem includes a transport robot and a plurality of automated configuring devices positioned in at least one rack accessible by the transport robot. 9. The system of claim 2 wherein the means for marking includes a laser capable of printing identification markings on the wire. 10. A method for making wire harnesses, comprising the steps of: a. selecting a wire of predetermined size; b. cutting the wire to a predetermined length; c. winding the cut wire onto a transporting canister that locates the ends of the wire in accessible, predetermined locations; d. transporting the canister with a robot; e. configuring the ends of the wire in the canister; f. delivering the canister that has the configured wire to a lay-up robot; g. unwinding the configured wire from the canister by moving the canister with the robot over a formboard to position the wire into a wire harness; and h. repeating steps (a) through (g) to complete the harness. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising the step of marking the wire with printing identification marks prior to winding the wire onto the canister. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of marking uses a laser to print on the wire. 