The present invention pertains to a robotic vision system for identifying the location of objects. The robotic vision system includes a device for recording images, and n elements, where n.gtoreq.2 and is an integer. Each of the n elements is disposed at a predetermined position such that each of the n elements is in view of the recording device and reflections of objects from each of the n elements is received by the recording device. The robotic vision system also includes a device for determining the location of objects from the image received by the recording device. The recording device is connected to the determining device to provide the viewed image thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic vision system for identifying the location of objects comprising: means for recording images; n elements where n.gtoreq.2, and is an integer, each of said n elements disposed at a predetermined position such that each of the n elements is in view of the recording means and reflections of objects from each of the n elements is directly received by the recording means; and means for determining the locations of objects from the image received by the recording means, said recording means connected to the determining means to provide the viewed image thereto. 2. A system as described in claim 1 wherein the recording means is a camera. 3. A robotic vision system for identifying the location of objects comprising: a camera; n spheres where n.gtoreq.2, and is an integer, each of said n spheres disposed at a predetermined position such that each of the n spheres is in view of the camera and reflections of objects from each of the n spheres is received by the recording means; and means for determining the locations of objects from the image received by the recording means, said recording means connected to the determining means to provide the viewed image thereto. 4. A system as described in claim 3 wherein the determining means is a computer electrically connected to the camera to receive images therefrom. 5. A system as described in claim 4 wherein the computer calculates with respect to a given reflection in one of the n spheres the epipolar curve for the reflections in each of the other spheres in order to determine the corresponding reflections from each sphere, and from the corresponding reflections from each sphere determines the location of the object associated with the corresponding reflections. 6. A system as described in claim 5 including means for illuminating the objects. 7. A system as described in claim 6 wherein each sphere is fixed in a predetermined position and has a glossy surface that is highly reflective of light. 