Method for machining flat, circular disk-shaped recording media, for example, audio, video or ROM compact disks, for the purpose of improving their surface quality and their dimensional stability, employs a lathe having a driven lathe spindle (7), a vacuum chuck (8) for holding the recording medium or substrate (15, 15'. . . ) to be machined, and a carriage (9) for holding and guiding the cuting tool (5) magazine (14) hold the machined and unmachined substrates, there being further provided a robot (10) held on the base (2) or bed (4) of the lathe and having a gripper arm (11) with gripping tongs (12) movable in several planes which transport the substrates from one magazine (14) to the vacuum chuck (8) or from the vacuum chuck to the other magazine, the stacking axes (L) of the two magazines extending at an angle to the horizontal plane (E), and the magazines being maintained within the range of action of the gripper arm (11) with gripping tongs (12).
Claims We claim: 1. Method for manufacturing a disk-shaped optical recording medium, said method comprising the steps of: providing a disk-shaped substrate of molded plastic, said substrate having opposed planar surfaces and a circumference, turning at least one planar surface of said substrate in a diamond tool lathe, coating said substrate with a light-reflecting coating. 2. Method as in claim 1 wherein both of said planar surfaces are turned in a lathe. 3. Method as in claim 1 wherein said light-reflecting coating is applied in a vacuum unit. 4. Method as in claim 1 wherein said light-reflecting coating is then coated with a protective lacquer coating. 5. Method as in claim 1 wherein after providing said disk-shaped substrates, said substrates are stacked in a first magazine with their normal axes at an angle from the vertical which is sufficient for gravity to align the substrates so that their normal axes are colinear, whereby the substrates are positively positioned to facilitate robotic handling. 6. Method as in claim 5 further comprising the steps of picking up each substrate from said first magazine by a pair of gripping tongs on a gripping arm of a robot, rotating said gripping arm until the longitudinal axis thereof intersects the vertical axis of a lathe spindle, placing said substrate on a vacuum chuck fixed to said lathe spindle, and rotating said lathe spindle while a cutting tool is moved radially across a planar surface of said substrate to turn said surface. 7. Method as in claim 6 wherein the thickness of the substrate is measured by a tactile sensor while said substrate is on said vacuum chuck. 8. Method as in claim 6 wherein after turning one planar surface of said substrate, it is rotated through 180.degree. and laid with its turned surface on the vacuum chuck in order to be turned the opposed planar surface. 9. Method as in claim 1 wherein providing said disk-shaped substrate of molded plastic comprises molding said disk-shaped substrate from said plastic. 