Optical compensation systems are provided which compensate for deflections of the articulated sensor arm of a robotic inspection apparatus such as are produced under load. A light source located at the distal end of the arm produces a light zone, such as a "spot", which is coupled through the pivot joints to an electro-optical detector array or other light position sensor. Coupling through the joints is provided by fiber optic bundles which extend through the joints and whose ends are supported centrally within the arm sections to respectively pick up and transmit the detected "spot". The positional information from the detector is used to upgrade the positional data provided by optical encoders located at the joints.
Claims I claim: 1. In a robot apparatus comprising a movable robot arm including at least one pivot joint, the improvement comprising means for generating a light zone within said arm on one side of said joint, detector means located within said arm on the other side of said joint for detecting the position of the zone relative to a reference position corresponding to a first position of said arm and imaging means for light coupling said zone through said joint to said detector means such that displacement of the zone from said reference position as detected by said detector means is a measure of the deflection of said arm from said first position. 2. A robot apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said robot arm has a distal end and a proximal end and said light zone generating means is located at the distal end of said robot arm so as to be movable therewith. 3. A robot apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein said light coupling means includes a flexible fiber optic light guide which extends through said joint, one end of said fiber optic light guide being positioned to receive an image of the light zone generated by said light zone generating means. 4. A robot apparatus as claimed in claim 3 further comprising means located on opposite sides of the joint for supporting the ends of said fiber optic light guide in predetermined positions within the robot arm. 5. A robot apparatus as claimed in claim 4 wherein said supporting means comprises a pair of mounting plates in which the ends of the fiber optic light guide are supported. 6. A robot apparatus as claimed in claim 5 wherein said light coupling means further comprises a lens located within said arm for imaging said light zone. 7. A robot apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said light coupling means comprises at least one lens located within said arm for providing imaging of said zone on said detector means. 8. A robot apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said robot apparatus includes a rotary encoder located at said pivot joint for determining the angular position of one arm section of the robot arm on one side of said joint relative to a further arm section of the robot arm on the other side of the joint and wherein the output of said detector means is fed to a computing means for correcting the output produced by said rotary encoder. 9. A robot apparatus as claimed in claim 8 wherein said rotary encoder includes a circular rotary scale with scale markings around the periphery thereof, a detector array and a light source for imaging the scale onto the detector array. 10. A robot apparatus as claimed in claim 9 further comprising a fiber optic means for coupling said image of the scale to said detector array. 11. A robot apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said robot arm comprises a plurality of articulated sections, and a said light zone generating means and a said detector means are located at the opposite ends of each section. 12. A robot apparatus as claimed in claim 11 wherein means are provided for electrically coupling the outputs of each of the detectors through the joints to computing means for combining said outputs. 13. In robotic apparatus employing an articulated robot arm having at least one joint located between adjacent arm sections, the improvement comprising measurement compensating apparatus, including a light source and a light detector located within said arm, arranged such that deviations from a reference position of the light beam produced by the light source as detected by the light detector are a measure of the deflection of the robot arm, and fiber optic means for coupling light from the light source to the light detector through said joint. 14. Robot apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein said light source comprises a point source and said light detector comprises a photodiode array. 15. Robot apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein said robot arm includes a plurality of said joints, and said light source and said light detector are positioned at opposite ends of said robot arm. 16. Robot apparatus as claimed in claim 13 wherein said fiber optic means comprises a fiber optic bundle extending through said joint and having the opposite ends thereof supported in reference positions within said robot arm relative to said light source and light detector. 17. Robot apparatus comprising an articulated robot arm comprising at least one joint, a rotary encoder located at said joint for providing an output related to the relative angular position of the arm sections on either side of the joint, a light source and an electro-optical light detector arranged relative to said robot arm so as to detect deflections of said robot arm, said light detector producing an output, related to the deflection of said robot arm relative to a reference position, for correcting the output provided by said rotary encoder for deflections of said arm. 18. Robot apparatus as claimed in claim 17 wherein said source and detector are located within said arm, said apparatus further comprising fiber optic means extending through said joint for guiding light from said light source to the light detector. 19. Robot apparatus as claimed in claim 18 wherein said fiber optic means comprises a filter optic bundle, said apparatus further comprising means for supporting the opposite ends of said fiber optic bundle in reference positions, on either side of said joint relative to said light source and said light detector. 20. A robot apparatus comprising a movable robot arm comprising a plurality of articulated joints; a rotary encoder located at each of said joints and; a single optical detector; and fiber optic coupling means for transmitting an image of the outputs of each of said rotary encoders to said single optical detector. 