A flexible automatic test facility for measuring physical parameters of smoking articles and components of smoking articles, e.g., filter portions. The test facility includes a microprocessor based controller device, apparatus for severing the filter portion from the article, a plurality of instruments for performing the desired measurements and a computer-controlled robot for gripping and maneuvering one cigarette at a time to one or more of the instruments or severing apparatus to measure one or more physical characteristics of each article or its components in accordance with software instructions. A hopper feeder device containing a plurality of sample sets in separate bins in an indexing mechanism may be provided for extended unattended operation. Each sample set is provided with a code and a database including the nominal physical characteristics of the samples in the set and the test sequence for the cigarettes in the sample set. The test sequence and parameters for each article in each set are obtained from the database, and the controller instructs the robot to grip a fed cigarette and to advance that cigarette to one or more of the instruments for performing measurements or processing station for severing filter in accordance with the predetermined sequence of measurements. At the conclusion of the samples in a given sample set, the next sample set is loaded, identified, and the process continues in accordance with the predetermined sequence for that sample set.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for measuring a physical characteristic of a plurality of smoking articles, comprising: means for gripping and releasing a smoking article; means for maneuvering a gripped smoking article within a range of motion; means for receiving one of said plurality of smoking articles at a first location within the range of motion; means for measuring a physical characteristic of a smoking article, the measuring means being at a second location within the range of motion; and microprocessor means for controlling the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to grip the one smoking article at the first location, to maneuver the one smoking article to the measuring means, to release the one smoking article at the measuring means so that the physical characteristic of the one smoking article can be measured and to grip again the one smoking article at the measuring means following the measurement. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means further comprises a robot having a first member and a second member, the first and second member being movable in opposition for gripping therebetween a smoking article. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the measuring means further comprises a first means for measuring a first physical characteristic of a smoking article located at the second location and a second means for measuring a second physical characteristic of a smoking article, the second measuring means being located at a third location within the range of motion, and wherein the controlling means controls the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to grip the one smoking article at the first location and to maneuver the one smoking article to one of the first and second measuring means whereby one of the first and second physical characteristics can be measured. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the controlling means controls the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to maneuver the one smoking article from the one of the first and second measuring stations to the other of the first and second measuring means whereby the other of the first and second physical characteristics can be measured. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the measuring means further comprises more than one means for measuring more than one selected physical characteristic of a smoking article wherein each said means is located at a different location within the range of motion, said means being selected from among the group consisting of means for measuring circumference, means for measuring ventilation, means for measuring pressure drop and means for measuring length, and wherein the controlling means controls the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to maneuver the one smoking article to one or more of the measuring means. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the controlling means further comprises a means for providing a test sequence identifying one or more physical characteristics of the one smoking article to be measured, wherein the controlling means is responsive to the test sequence and controls the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to maneuver the gripped one smoking article to one or more of the measuring means so that the one or more identified physical characteristics can be measured. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the test sequence identifies the order in which the measurements of the one smoking article are to be made. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the test sequence identifies the order in which the measurements of each smoking article in the plurality of smoking articles are to be made. 9. In a test station having a means for gripping and releasing a smoking article, means for maneuvering a gripped smoking article within a range of motion, means for receiving one of said plurality of smoking articles at a first location within the range of motion, means for measuring a physical characteristic of a smoking article, the measuring means being at a second location within the range of motion; and microprocessor means for controlling the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means, a method for measuring a physical characteristic of a plurality of smoking articles, comprising: providing a plurality of smoking articles; feeding one smoking article to the receiving means; gripping the one fed smoking article at the receiving means; maneuvering the gripped one smoking article to the measuring means; releasing the one smoking article at the measuring means; measuring the physical characteristic of the one smoking article; and gripping again the one smoking article at the measuring means following the measurement. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means further comprise a robot having a first member and a second member being movable in opposition, and gripping and releasing the one smoking article further comprises moving the first and second members together for gripping a smoking article and moving the first and second members apart to release the smoking article. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the test station includes more than one means for measuring more than one selected physical characteristic of a smoking article wherein each said means is located at a different location within the range of motion, said means being selected from among the group consisting of means for measuring circumference, means for measuring ventilation and pressure drop and means for measuring length, the method further comprising: providing a test sequence identifying one or more physical characteristics of the one smoking article to be measured; gripping and maneuvering the one smoking article to one or more of the measuring means in response to the provided test sequence so that the one or more identified physical characteristics can be measured. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein providing the test sequence further comprises identifying the order in which the measurements of the one smoking article are to be made. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein providing the test sequence further comprises identifying the order in which the measurements of each smoking article in the plurality of smoking articles are to be made. 14. Apparatus for measuring a physical characteristic of a component of a plurality of smoking articles, comprising: means for gripping and releasing a smoking article; means for maneuvering a gripped smoking article within a range of motion; means for receiving one of said plurality of smoking articles at a first location within the range of motion; means for severing the component of the smoking article from the smoking article, the severing means being located at a second location within the range of motion; means for measuring a physical characteristic of a smoking article component, the measuring means being at a third location within the range of motion; and microprocessor means for controlling the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to grip the one smoking article at the first location and maneuver the one smoking article to the severing means, to maneuver the one smoking article component to the measuring means, to release the one smoking article component at the measuring means so that the physical characteristic of the one smoking article component can be measured, and to grip the one smoking article component at the measuring means following the measurement. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means further comprise a robot having a first member and a second member, the first and second members being movable in opposition for gripping therebetween a smoking article. 16. The apparatus of claim 14 further wherein the measuring means comprises a first measuring means for measuring a first physical characteristic of a smoking article component located at the third location and a second means for measuring a second physical characteristic of a smoking article component, the second measuring means being located at a fourth location within the range of motion, and wherein the controlling means controls the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to grip and maneuver the one smoking article component to one of the first and second measuring means whereby one of the first and second physical characteristics can be measured. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the controlling means controls the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to maneuver the one smoking article component from the one of the first and second measuring stations to the other of the first and second measuring means whereby the other of the first and second physical characteristics of the smoking article component can be measured. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the first and second measuring means are selected from among the group consisting of means for measuring pressure drop and means for measuring length. 19. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the controlling means further comprises a means for providing a test sequence identifying one or more physical characteristics of the one smoking article component to be measured, wherein the controlling means is responsive to the provided test sequence and controls the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to maneuver the gripped one smoking article to one or both of the first and second measuring means so that the one or both identified physical characteristics of the smoking article component can be measured. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the test sequence identifies the order in which the measurements of the one smoking article component are to be made. 21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein the test sequence identifies the order in which the measurements of each smoking article component of the plurality of smoking article are to be made. 22. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the measuring means further comprises a first means for measuring a first physical characteristic of a smoking article component and a second means for measuring a first physical characteristic of a smoking article, the second measuring means being at a fourth location within the range of motion, wherein the controlling means controls the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to grip the one smoking article at the first location, to maneuver the one smoking article to the second measuring means so that the first physical characteristic of the one smoking article can be measured, and then to the severing means, thereby to sever he component, and to maneuver the one smoking article component to the first measuring means so that the first physical characteristic of the one smoking article component can be measured. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein the first measuring means further comprises more than one means for measuring more than one physical characteristic of a smoking article component at more than one location in the range of motion, the second measuring means further comprises more than one means for measuring more than one physical characteristic of a smoking article located at more than one location in the range of motion, and the controlling means further comprises a means for providing a test sequence identifying one or more physical characteristics of the one smoking article and one or more physical characteristics of the one smoking article component to be measured, wherein the controlling means is responsive to the provided test sequence and controls the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to maneuver the gripped one smoking article to one or more of the second measuring means, and the severing means and one or more of the first measuring means so that the one or more identified physical characteristics of the smoking article and the smoking article component can be measured. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the test sequence identifies the order in which the measurements of the one smoking article and the one smoking article component are to be made whereby the physical characteristics of the one smoking article are obtained prior to the physical characteristics of the one smoking article component. 25. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein the test sequence identifies the order in which the measurements of each smoking article and smoking article component of the plurality of smoking articles are to be made whereby the physical characteristics of each one smoking article are obtained prior to the physical characteristics of the one smoking article component. 26. The apparatus of claim 22 further comprising a second means for receiving a smoking article at a fifth location within the range of motion wherein the controlling means controls the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to release the one smoking article onto the second receiving means and then to grip the smoking article by its component on the second receiving means, to maneuver the one smoking article to the severing means, and to grip the one smoking article component during the severing process. 27. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the smoking article component is a filter rod of a cigarette, the apparatus further comprising means for deshredding the severed filter component of a cigarette, wherein the controlling means controls the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means to maneuver a severed filter to the deshredding means following the severing operation. 28. In a test station having means for gripping and releasing a smoking article, means for maneuvering a gripped smoking article within a range of motion, means for receiving one of said plurality of smoking articles at a first location within the range of motion, means for severing a component of a smoking article from the smoking article, the severing means being located at a second location within the range of motion, means for measuring a physical characteristic of a smoking article component, the measuring means being at a third location within the range of motion, and microprocessor means for controlling the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means, a method for measuring a physical characteristic of a component of a plurality of smoking articles comprising: providing a plurality of smoking articles; feeding one smoking article to the receiving means; gripping the one fed smoking article by its component; maneuvering the gripped smoking article to the severing means; severing the one smoking article component from the one smoking article; maneuvering the one smoking article component to the measuring means; releasing the smoking article component at the measuring means; measuring the physical characteristic of the one smoking article; and gripping again the one smoking article component at the measuring means following the measurement. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the gripping and releasing means and the maneuvering means further comprise a robot having a first member and a second member movable in opposition and wherein gripping the one smoking article or one smoking article component further comprises moving the first and second members together and releasing the one smoking article component further comprises moving the first and second members apart. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the measuring means further comprises one or more means for measuring one or more physical characteristics of a smoking article component selected from among the group consisting of means for measuring pressure drop and means for measuring length, and one or more means for measuring one or more physical characteristics of a smoking article, each measuring means being located at a different location within the range of motion, the method further comprising: providing a test sequence identifying one or more of the physical characteristics of the one smoking article and the one smoking article component to be measured; gripping and releasing and maneuvering the one smoking article to one or more of the measuring means and the severing station in response to the identified sequence so that the one or more of the identified physical characteristics of the one smoking article and the one smoking article component can be measured. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein providing the test sequence further comprises identifying the order in which the measurements of the one smoking article and the one smoking article component are to be made. 32. The method of claim 30 wherein providing the test sequence further comprises identifying the order in which the measurements of each smoking article and smoking article component of the plurality of smoking articles are to be made. 33. The method of claim 30 wherein the test station includes a second means for receiving a smoking article at a fourth location within the range of motion and wherein maneuvering the gripped one smoking article to the severing means further comprises: maneuvering the gripped article to the second receiving means, releasing the one smoking article on the second receiving means; gripping the one smoking article component while the one smoking article is on the second receiving means; and maneuvering the one smoking article to the severing means so that the gripping means grips the one smoking article component during the severing process. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the smoking article and its component further comprise a cigarette having a tobacco-containing rod and a filter, respectively, the method further comprising: maneuvering the gripped filter severed from the cigarette to a means for deshredding the filter of any tobacco prior to measuring the physical characteristic of the filter, the deshredding means being at a fifth location in the range of motion. 