A subsea fitting is disclosed. The subsea fitting includes a body. The fitting includes at least two passages through the body. The passages are in fluid communication within the body. A diverter is located in at least one of the passages. The diverter may be movable between an open position and a closed position. In the open position, the diverter allows open flow between two of the passages. In the closed position, the diverter inhibits flow between the two passages.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A subsea pipeline fitting, comprising: a body; a first passage through the body coupled to a first port on a first side of the body; a second passage through the body coupled to a second port on the first side of the body; wherein the first passage and the second passage combine within the body and couple to a third port on a second side of the body, the second side being opposite from the first side of the body; a first tubular diverter located lengthwise in the first passage, wherein the first tubular diverter fits snugly inside the first passage such that fluid flows longitudinally from one end of the first passage to the other end of the first passage through the inside of the first tubular diverter, wherein the first tubular diverter rotates within the first passage during use, and wherein the first tubular diverter comprises a first opening in a portion of its wall; and a second tubular diverter located lengthwise in the second passage, wherein the second tubular diverter fits snugly inside the second passage such that fluid flows longitudinally from one end of the second passage to the other end of the second passage through the inside of the second tubular diverter, wherein the second tubular diverter rotates within the second passage during use, and wherein the second tubular diverter comprises a second opening in a portion of its wall. 2. The fitting of claim 1, wherein the tubular diverters are allowed to rotate in the passages during use such that, when the first opening in the wall of the first tubular diverter is at least partially aligned with the second passage and the second opening in the wall of the second tubular diverter is not aligned with the first passage, there is open flow in the fitting between the second port and the third port through the second passage. 3. The fitting of claim 2, wherein the second passage is allowed to be pigged during use when the first opening in the wall of the first tubular diverter is at least partially aligned with the second passage and the second opening in the wall of the second tubular diverter is not aligned with the first passage. 4. The fitting of claim 1, wherein the tubular diverters are allowed to rotate in the passages during use such that, when the first opening in the wall of the first tubular diverter is not aligned with the second passage and the second opening in the wall of the second tubular diverter is at least partially aligned with the first passage, there is open flow in the fitting between the first port and the third port through the first passage. 5. The fitting of claim 4, wherein the first passage is allowed to be pigged during use when the first opening in the wall of the first tubular diverter is not aligned with the second passage and the second opening in the wall of the second tubular diverter is at least partially aligned with the first passage. 6. The fitting of claim 1, wherein the tubular diverters are allowed to rotate in the passages during use such that, when the first opening in the wall of the first tubular diverter is at least partially aligned with the second passage and the second opening in the wall of the second tubular diverter is at least partially aligned with the first passage, there is open flow in the fitting between the first port and the third port through the first passage and between the second port and the third port through the second passage. 7. The fitting of claim 6, wherein both passages are allowed to be pigged during use when the first opening in the wall of the first tubular diverter is at least partially aligned with the second passage and the second opening in the wall of the second tubular diverter is at least partially aligned with the first passage. 8. The fitting of claim 1, wherein the two passages are oriented relative to each other such that at least one of the passages is piggable in the reverse direction during use. 9. The fitting of claim 1, wherein the two passages are oriented with an angle between the passages in a range from about 10.degree. to about 90.degree.. 10. The fitting of claim 1, wherein the two passages are oriented symmetrically about a central axis. 11. The fitting of claim 1, wherein at least one of the diverters comprises orifices configured to allow at least some fluid flow between the two passages to equalize pressure between the two passages, and wherein the orifices are configured to inhibit object flow between the two passages. 12. The fitting of claim 1, wherein at least one of the tubular diverters is rotated using a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) during use. 13. The fitting of claim 1, further comprising a drive hub coupled to at least one of the tubular diverters, wherein the drive hub is used to rotate the tubular diverter during use. 14. The fitting of claim 13, wherein the drive hub is coupled to one end of the passage in which the tubular diverter is located. 15. The fitting of claim 13, wherein the drive hub comprises teeth that engage teeth on the tubular diverter such that the drive mechanism is able to rotate the tubular diverter. 16. The fitting of claim 13, further comprising a gear coupled to the drive hub, wherein the gear moves the drive hub during use. 17. The fitting of claim 16, wherein the gear comprises teeth that engage teeth on the drive hub such that the gear moves the drive hub during use. 18. The fitting of claim 16, wherein the coupling between the gear and the drive hub is substantially sealed from external pressure. 19. The fitting of claim 16, wherein the gear is operable using an ROV. 20. The fitting of claim 1, wherein the fitting is coupled to a subsea pipeline during use. 