Disclosed are apparatus and methods for manufacturing complex gears includes the creation of a data set to control a robotic machine tool enabling the tool to machine the contours of the gears accurately after the gear has been cut. Each gear is mounted to an indexable chuck which is used to position the gear for machining operations such as chamfering and deburring that heretofore have been done by hand. A machine cabinet allows debris from machining to be recovered by a vacuum-operated system and an air-cooling system cools the gear during machining without requiring the use of cooling oils or other liquids.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for carrying out a finishing operation upon an already manufactured workpiece using a machining tool controlled by a computer, said computer controlling said machining tool with a control program, said method comprising the steps of: selecting the workpiece; creating an inspection data file for said workpiece; using said data file to create a digital model of said workpiece with said control program; selecting data points in said model to identify selected portions of the surfaces of the periphery of said workpiece to be finished; and finishing said identified surfaces with said machining tool by controlling said machining tool with said control program. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein a succession of said finishing operations are carried out upon said workpiece. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said finishing operation is selected from the group of chamfering, deburring, honing, reaming, grinding, polishing, buffing and drilling. 4. A method for manufacturing a workpiece from a blank, said method comprising the steps of: using a first computer program to create a first data set that identifies the contours of the workpiece; using said first data set to set the operating parameters of a workpiece-shaping device; cutting a prototype workpiece from said blank with said workpiece-shaping device; using a second computer program to generate a second data set for the purpose of measuring and inspecting said contours of said prototype workpiece; measuring and inspecting said contours of said prototype workpiece suing s device operated by said second computer program; using a third computer program to create a digital model of said contours of said workpiece; and using said third computer program and said model to operate a computer-controlled machining device to perform selected finishing operations on selected of said contours. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein a succession of said finishing operations are carried out upon said workpiece. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said finishing operation is selected from the group of chamfering, deburring, honing, reaming, grinding, polishing, buffing and drilling. 