A power system is provided for robotic systems such as dynamically balancing robots, including inverted pendulum robots, robots that balance on two legs, and dynamically balancing robotic personal vehicles. Under normal operation, the power system provides operating power from a power source such as an internal battery system or an external AC power supply. The power system includes an energy storage device, such as an ultracapacitor assembly, that can provide emergency power sufficient to power components of the robotic system to a stable shutdown configuration in the event of a deleterious power event.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: a dynamically balancing robot including an electrically activated component that is employed when the robot is brought to a stable shutdown configuration; and a power system configured to power the component and including a voltage converter configured to receive power from a power source, an energy storage device in electrical communication between the voltage converter and the component, the energy storage device being capable of providing the component with sufficient power to bring the robot to the stable shutdown configuration during a deleterious power event, and a controller configured to monitor for an indication of the deleterious power event. 2. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the robot dynamically balances on two wheels. 3. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the component comprises a motor. 4. The robotic system of claim 3 further comprising a motor driver in electrical communication between the motor and the energy storage device. 5. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the voltage converter comprises a DC to DC converter. 6. The robotic system of claim 1 further comprising a DC power source, wherein the voltage converter is in electrical communication between the DC power source and the energy storage device. 7. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the voltage converter comprises an AC to DC converter. 8. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the energy storage device comprises an ultracapacitor assembly. 9. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the energy storage device is characterized by a power density of at least 1000 W/kg. 10. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the energy storage device is characterized by an energy density of at least 1 Wh/kg. 11. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the robot further comprises a tether including a power line coupled to the energy storage device. 12. The robotic system of claim 1 further comprising a shunt circuit, wherein the controller is further configured to dissipate excess energy through the shunt circuit. 13. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the controller is further configured to dissipate excess energy by adding an oscillation to a drive voltage applied to a motor. 14. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the power source comprises a DC power source and wherein the system further comprises and a second voltage converter configured to recharge the DC power source. 15. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the controller is further configured to regulate a current and voltage applied by the voltage converter to the energy storage device. 16. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the system further comprises safe shutdown logic configured to control the component through a series of safe shutdown steps to achieve the stable shutdown configuration. 17. The robotic system of claim 1 wherein the controller is further configured to supply power to the component from the power source and the energy storage device in parallel. 18. A method comprising: balancing a robot on no more than two points of contact with the ground, wherein balancing the robot comprising drawing power from a power source; and responding to a deleterious power event by transitioning the robot to a stable shutdown configuration while drawing power from an ultracapacitor assembly. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the deleterious power event comprises a loss of power. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein the deleterious power event comprises a low battery condition wherein the available power remaining in a battery system is insufficient to transition the robot to the stable shutdown configuration. 21. The method of claim 18 wherein the robot comprises a dynamically balancing robotic personal vehicle. 22. The method of claim 18 wherein the robot is configured to dynamically balance on two legs. 23. The method of claim 18 further comprising monitoring the power source for an indication of the deleterious power event. 24. A method comprising: balancing a robot on no more than two points of contact with the ground, including drawing power from a power source characterized by a safe discharge rate, the robot including an ultracapacitor assembly characterized by a maximum charge voltage; and drawing power in parallel from both the power source and from the ultracapacitor assembly, where the power drawn from the power source is limited by the safe discharge rate where power drawn responding to a deleterious power event transitions the robot to a stable shutdown configuration while drawing power from the ultracapacitor assembly. 25. The method of claim 24 further comprising monitoring the charge voltage of the ultracapacitor assembly. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising modifying an operational limit of the robot responsive to the charge voltage of the ultracapacitor assembly. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the operational limit of the robot comprises a maximum speed. 