A system for planning transplantation of follicular units in a body surface of a patient includes a user interface comprising a software-controlled processor, a monitor, and an input device, wherein the system is configured for acquiring images of the body surface, processing the images to produce a three-dimensional model of the body surface, displaying a graphic rendering of the body surface model on the monitor, and displaying on the body surface model a proposed recipient area for implanting follicular units based at least in part on an actual or desired physical characteristic of the patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of planning for transplantation of hair follicular units in a body surface, comprising: displaying a three-dimensional model of a body surface; and generating and displaying on the model a proposed front hair line curve, wherein follicular unit implantation locations of the hair line curve and hair follicle orientations of the hair line curve are automatically generated based on specified control points and orientations at the control points. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising interactively adjusting any of the control point locations and/or orientations to thereby correspondingly adjust the proposed hair line curve. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein interactively adjusting comprises using a click and drag motion of an input device. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the control points and/or orientations at the control points are user selected, automatically generated, or specified by a combination of both. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising using cubic interpolation techniques to generate the follicular unit implantation locations and/or orientations of the hair line curve. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising interactively adjusting one or more of a respective density, direction, implant depth, a degree of randomization, or overall appearance of the follicular units in the proposed follicular unit implantation locations. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein a number of the specified control points is a small fraction of the proposed follicular unit implantation locations. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining and displaying on the model proposed additional follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations arranged in a configuration of one or more additional hair lines substantially replicating the front hair line curve. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a proposed boundary of a hair patch area based on hair patch boundary control points. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising determining and displaying on the model proposed additional follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations within an interior of the hair patch area defined by the boundary in accordance with one or more parameters. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the additional follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations within the interior of the hair patch area are determined at least in part based on specified hair patch control points. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein any of the proposed follicular unit implantation locations and orientations are based at least in part on an attribute of existing follicular units in an identified donor area of the body surface and selected from the group comprising a mix of type of follicular unit, a quantity of each type of follicular unit, a relative coarseness of hair follicles growing from the follicular units, a direction of hair follicles growing from the follicular units, a color of hair follicles growing from the follicular units, and a randomness of the follicular units. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying on the body surface model a proposed boundary of a donor area for harvesting follicular units, and wherein the proposed donor area boundary is originally determined, subsequently modified, or both, based on input received via a user input device. 14. A method of planning for transplantation of hair follicular units in a body surface, comprising: displaying a three-dimensional model of the body surface; and generating and displaying on the model a proposed boundary curve having follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations, the follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations of the boundary curve are based on specified control points and orientations of the control points; and adjusting a location and/or orientation of at least one of the control points to cause a processor to generate and display an adjusted proposed boundary curve, wherein 1) if the location of the control point is adjusted, more than one of the follicular implantation locations is adjusted, or 2) if the orientation of the control points is adjusted, the orientation of more than one of the hair follicles is adjusted. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the control points are user selected, automatically generated, or specified by a combination of both. 16. The method of claim 14, further comprising processing images of a body surface to generate the three-dimensional model of the body surface. 17. The method of claim 14, further comprising randomizing the follicular unit implantation locations. 18. The method of claim 14, further comprising determining additional proposed follicular unit implantation locations and hair follicle orientations in one or more hair recipient areas. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein any of the proposed follicular unit implantation locations and/or hair follicle orientations are generated from the control points using cubic interpolation techniques. 20. The method of claim 18, further comprising adjusting one or more of a respective density, direction, implant depth, degree of randomization, or overall appearance of the follicular units in any of the proposed follicular unit implantation locations. 21. The method of claim 18, further comprising calculating any of the proposed follicular unit implantation locations analytically, or using a graphical construction technique. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein any of the proposed follicular unit implantation locations are generated using a modified interpolated curve construction. 23. The method of claim 18, further comprising displaying on the body surface model a graphic rendering of hair follicles growing from any of the planned follicular unit implantation locations. 24. The method of claim 14, further comprising displaying on the body surface model a proposed boundary of a donor area for harvesting follicular units, wherein the proposed donor area boundary is determined based at least in part on one or more of an amount of each of a type of existing follicular unit available for harvesting from the donor area, an amount of each of a type of existing follicular unit to be implanted, or a minimum density of follicular units to be left remaining in the donor area after selected harvesting of other follicular units. 25. The method of claim 14, wherein the body surface model is generated by a 3D scanner. 26. The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of the proposed follicular unit implantation locations and/or at least one of the hair follicle orientations is generated using a Bezier, Cardinal spline or b-spline interpolation technique. 27. The method of claim 14, wherein the proposed boundary curve comprises a front hair line or a boundary of a hair patch area. 28. The method of claim 14, further comprising displaying one or more input menus for receiving user inputs for adjusting the boundary curve and/or one or more proposed hair recipient areas. 29. The method of claim 28, further comprising receiving user inputs through a user input device for initially defining a proposed hair removal area. 30. The method of claim 14, further comprising automatically generating a proposed hair removal area, wherein generating is based at least in part on a density of existing follicular units available for removal from the proposed hair removal area. 31. The method of claim 14, further comprising generating a proposed hair removal area, wherein generating is based at least in part on 1) a minimum density of follicular units to be left remaining in the proposed hair removal area after selected removal of other follicular units, 2) an amount of each of a type of existing follicular unit available for removal from the proposed hair removal area, or 3) an amount of each of a type of existing follicular unit to be implanted in another area of the body surface. 32. The method of claim 14, further comprising determining a type of an existing follicular unit in a donor area of interest and taking into consideration the determined type and/or an amount of each type of the existing follicular units in the donor area of interest when adjusting. 