An instrument interface of a robotic manipulator and a surgical system including the instrument interface are provided. In one embodiment, the instrument interface includes a spring-loaded input for providing axial load and torque to a sterile adaptor capable of operably coupling an instrument. In another embodiment, a robotic surgical manipulator system includes a manipulator assembly, including a base link operably coupled to a distal end of a manipulator arm, and a carriage link movably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis, the carriage link including an integrated instrument interface. The system further includes an instrument operably coupled to the carriage link via the instrument interface, and a processor operably coupled to the manipulator assembly for sensing presence of the instrument.
Claims We claim: 1. An integrated instrument interface of a robotic manipulator, comprising: a spring-loaded input that provides axial load and torque to a sterile adaptor configured to operably couple an instrument; a fixed mounting bracket that holds a first end of the sterile adaptor; and a spring-loaded release lever that attaches or releases a second end of the sterile adaptor with a biased lever body. 2. The instrument interface of claim 1, wherein the spring-loaded input includes an input bar coupled to a shaft operably coupled to an output pulley. 3. The instrument interface of claim 2, wherein the input bar includes a boss for engaging the sterile adaptor. 4. The instrument interface of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of spring-loaded inputs for operably engaging the sterile adaptor. 5. The instrument interface of claim 1, wherein the release lever includes a torsion spring for biasing the lever body. 6. The instrument interface of claim 1, further comprising a Hall-effect sensor for sensing presence of the instrument. 7. The instrument interface of claim 6, wherein the Hall-effect sensor is capable of sensing a magnet mounted inside the instrument. 8. The instrument interface of claim 1, further comprising a fiducial for fixing the position of the sterile adaptor relative to the robotic manipulator. 9. The instrument interface of claim 1, further comprising a spring plunger for providing axial force against the sterile adaptor. 10. The instrument interface of claim 1, further comprising an electrical interface for interfacing between the sterile adaptor and a printed circuit assembly. 11. The instrument interface of claim 10, further comprising a protective shroud surrounding the electrical interface. 12. The instrument interface of claim 1, further including an instrument, wherein the instrument is selected from the group consisting of jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, clip appliers, cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 13. A robotic surgical manipulator system, comprising: a manipulator assembly, including: a base link operably coupled to a distal end of a manipulator arm; and a carriage link movably coupled to the base link along a lengthwise axis, the carriage link including an integrated instrument interface having: a spring-loaded input that provides axial load and torque to a sterile adaptor configured to operably couple an instrument; a fixed mounting bracket that holds a first end of the sterile adaptor; and a spring-loaded release lever that attaches or releases a second end of the sterile adaptor with a biased lever body; an instrument operably coupled to the carriage link via the instrument interface; and a processor operably coupled to the manipulator assembly for sensing presence of the instrument. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the spring-loaded input includes an input bar coupled to a shaft operably coupled to an output pulley. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein the instrument interface further includes a plurality of spring-loaded inputs for operably engaging the sterile adaptor. 16. The system of claim 13, wherein the instrument interface further includes a Hall-effect sensor for sensing presence of the instrument. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the Hall-effect sensor is capable of sensing a magnet mounted inside the instrument. 18. The system of claim 13, wherein the instrument is selected from the group consisting of jaws, scissors, graspers, needle holders, micro-dissectors, staple appliers, tackers, suction irrigation tools, clip appliers, cutting blades, cautery probes, irrigators, catheters, and suction orifices. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein the sterile adaptor is integrated with a sterile drape for separating a part of the robotic surgical system from a surgical field. 