A LIDAR scanning system having a rotating multifaceted polygon mirror for transmitting modulated light from one of its facets to a surface. Diffuse light reflected off said surface is received by another facet of the polygon mirror and reflected to a photo detector. The phase difference between the transmitted and received light is then used to compute the range of the surface from the scanning system. The intensity of the returned light is used to create a gray scale image of the surface. The use of separate optical paths for the transmitted and returned light, and a small scanned field of view results in an improved signal-to-noise ratio.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A LIDAR scanning system for providing a three-dimensional image of a surface, said system comprising: a modulated light source; a light detector; a rotating multifaceted mirror including a first facet reflecting light emitted from said light source onto said surface, and a second facet receiving diffuse light reflected back from said surface, said diffuse light received by said second facet being reflected to said light detector; and range determining means for determining the range of said surface relative to a predetermined datum in accordance with the state of modulation of the light received by said light detector relative to the modulated light emitted by said light source, and including zero reference means comprising a pair of fiber optic light pipes of differing predetermined lengths for receiving light at first terminals thereof located adjacent to said modulated light source and emitting light from second terminals thereof located adjacent to said light detector for providing reference signals to said light detector having known states of modulation. 2. The LIDAR scanning system of claim 1 wherein said modulated light source is amplitude modulated and said range determining means includes means for determining the phase shift of the received light relative to the emitted light. 3. The LIDAR scanning system of claim 1 wherein said second facet is adjacent to said first facet on said multifaceted mirror. 4. The LIDAR scanning system of claim 1 further comprising a generally triangular-shaped aperture positioned in front of said light detector for partially blocking extraneous light surrounding said diffuse light received from said surface, wherein said aperture is oriented so that said received light shifts from the larger portion of said triangular aperture to the narrower portion of said triangular aperture as the distance of said surface from the scanner increases. 5. The LIDAR scanning system according to claim 2 wherein said range determining means further includes means for determining the intensity of said received light and range correction means for determining the corrected range of said surface in accordance with said determined intensity and phase shift. 6. A LIDAR scanning system for providing a three-dimensional image of a surface, comprising: a multifaceted mirror rotationally driven at a predetermined rotational speed; a modulated laser light source for producing a collimated beam of light; transmitting optics for focusing said beam of light onto a first facet of said rotating multifaceted mirror such that said beam of light is reflected off said first facet onto said surface thereby creating a light image on said surface that is scanned over said surface along a first axis; a light detector; receiving optics focused on a second facet of said rotating multifaceted mirror for directing diffuse light reflected off said surface onto said light detector thereby providing said detector with a focused view of said light image as it is scanned over said surface along said first axis; a generally triangular-shaped aperture positioned in front of said light detector for partially blocking extraneous light surrounding said diffuse light image, wherein said aperture is oriented so that the received light image shifts from the larger portion of the aperture to the smaller portion of the aperture as the distance of said surface from the scanner increases; and range-determining means for determining the range relative to a predetermined datum of each point on said surface illuminated by said light image in accordance with the state of modulation of the reflected light received by said light detector relative to the modulated light emitted by said light source. 7. The LIDAR scanning system of claim 6 further including a pivoting mirror pivotably mounted on an axis orthogonal to the axis of rotation of said multifaceted mirror and positioned so as to reflect the beam of light reflected off said first facet onto said surface and to reflect the diffuse light reflected off said surface onto said second facet. 8. The LIDAR scanning system of claim 7 wherein said pivoting mirror causes said light image on said surface to simultaneously scan over said surface along a second axis perpendicular to said first axis. 9. The LIDAR scanning system of claim 8 wherein said multifaceted mirror is rotated at a relatively high rotational speed and said pivoting mirror is pivoted at a relatively slow angular speed. 10. The LIDAR scanning system of claim 6 wherein said first second facets comprise adjacent facets on said multifaceted mirror. 11. The LIDAR scanning system of claim 6 wherein said modulated light source is amplitude modulated and said range determining means includes means for determining the phase shift of the received light relative to the emitted light. 12. The LIDAR scanning system of claim 11 wherein said range determining means further includes zero reference means comprising a pair of fiber optic light pipes of differing predetermined lengths for receiving light at first terminals thereof located adjacent to said modulated light source and emitting light from second terminals thereof located adjacent to said light detector for providing reference signals to said light detector having known states of modulation. 13. The LIDAR scanning system of claim 11 wherein said range determining means further includes means for determining the intensity of said received light and range correction means for determining the corrected range of said surface in accordance with said determined intensity and phase shift. 