The present invention provides an automated system and method for removing one or more layers of a material from a substrate. The system and method include irradiating a structure comprising at least one layer of material formed on a substrate with a light beam having an intensity sufficient to ablate the materials in order to expose selected regions of the substrate, where the ablated material generates photoacoustic signature signals; scanning the structure with the light beam along a predetermined path at a scan speed; detecting the photoacoustic signature signals; determining an updated scan speed functionally related to the detected photoacoustic signals; and directing the scan speed to be equal to the updated scan speed. Another embodiment exposes a selected layer of a multilayered structure in a process which includes irradiating the surface of multilayered structure at a first location with a light beam having sufficient intensity to ablate the irradiated layer and generate photoacoustic pressure wave signals; detecting the photoacoustic pressure wave signals generated at the irradiated surface; comparing representations of the photoacoustic pressure wave signals with a reference value corresponding to a photoacoustic signature signal of a layer of the structure selected to be exposed; and directing the light source to scan the surface of the structure at a scan speed functionally related to the difference between the photoacoustic pressure wave signals and the reference value.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for removing material from a substrate, comprising: a light source for directing a light beam to irradiate a structure comprising at least one layer of material formed on a substrate at an intensity sufficient to ablate said material so that said ablating material generates photoacoustic pressure wave signals having peak intensities; a fast pressure transducer positioned to detect said photoacoustic pressure wave signals and provide a first output signal corresponding to said photoacoustic pressure wave signals having peak intensities; control means coupled to receive said first output from said fast pressure transducer for providing a speed control signal where said speed control signal is functionally related to said photoacoustic pressure wave signal peak intensities; and means coupled to receive said speed control signal for conveying said light source and said fast pressure transducer along a predetermined path so that said light source irradiates said structure at a scan speed controlled by said speed control signal. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein: said control means directs said scan speed to be a minimum scan speed if said photoacoustic pressure wave signal peak intensities are equal to or greater than a first threshold value; and said control means directs said scan speed to be a maximum scan speed if said photoacoustic pressure wave signals peak intensities are equal to or less than a second threshold value. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein said control means includes: signal conditioning circuit means coupled to receive said first output signal from said fast pressure transducer for generating a second output signal corresponding to said photoacoustic pressure wave signals peak intensities; and a data processor coupled to receive said second output signal from said signal conditioning circuit for generating and providing said speed control signal to said conveying means. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said structure is irradiated by said light beam at an incident intensity ranging from about 1-30 joules/cm.sup.2. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said light beam is modulated at a frequency of 4-5 Hz. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said second output signal of said signal conditioning circuit is a DC output signal corresponding to said peak intensities of said photoacoustic pressure wave signals. 7. The system of claim 6 which further includes means for cooling said structure to prevent said light beam from causing heat damage to said structure and for cleaning said structure. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said cooling means directs a stream of particles to impinge said structure. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said stream of particles includes carbon dioxide pellets entrained in a dry flowing gas stream. 10. The system of claim 6 wherein said light source includes a broadband flashlamp for generating said light beam. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said conveying means is a robotic positioner system 12. The system of claim 11 wherein said light source further includes: a water cooled housing having a quartz window; and a reflector having an elliptical reflective surface with an elliptically shaped cross-section and a focus mounted in said housing so that light generated at said focus reflects off said reflective surface and is transmitted through said quartz window; whereby said flashlamp is mounted substantially coincident along said focus. 13. The system of claim 11 wherein said signal conditioning circuit includes: a track-and-hold circuit for receiving said first output signal from said fast pressure transducer; and providing an output corresponding to said peak intensity of said photoacoustic pressure wave signals in response to receiving a reset signal generated by said data processor; and an analog-to-digital converter operably coupled to said output from said track-and-hold for providing a digital output to said data processor. 14. A method for removing material, comprising the steps of: (1) irradiating a structure comprising at least one layer of material formed on a substrate with a light beam having an intensity sufficient to ablate said materials in order to expose selected regions of said substrate, where said ablated material generates photoacoustic pressure wave signals having peak intensities; (2) scanning said structure with said light beam; (3) detecting said photoacoustic pressure wave signals; (4) determining an updated scan speed functionally related to said peak intensities of said detected photoacoustic pressure wave signals; and (5) directing said scan speed to be equal to said updated scan speed. 15. The method of claim 14 including irradiating said structure at an incident intensity ranging from about 1-30 joules/cm.sup.2. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein said scan speed is related to said intensities of said photoacoustic pressure wave signals by a monotonic decreasing function. 17. The method of claim 16 including: (1) directing said scan speed to be a minimum speed if said peak intensities of said photoacoustic pressure wave signals are equal to or greater than a first threshold value; and (2) directing said scan speed to be a maximum scan speed if said peak intensities of said photoacoustic pressure wave signals are equal to or less than a second threshold value. 18. The method of claim 17 including generating said light beam with a broadband flashlamp. 19. The method system of claim 18 including modulating said light beam at a frequency of 4-5 Hz. 20. The method of claim 19 including cooling said structure to prevent said light beam from causing heat damage to said structure. 21. The method of claim 20 including cooling and cleaning said structure by impinging a particle stream on said structure. 22. The method of claim 20 including impinging a particle stream including carbon dioxide pellets entrained in a dry gas on said structure. 23. A method for exposing a selected layer of a multilayered structure, comprising the steps of: 1) irradiating the surface of a structure formed of one or more layers of material formed on a substrate at a first location with a light beam having sufficient intensity to ablate said irradiated material, where said material generates photoacoustic pressure wave signals having peak intensities in response to being irradiated; 2) detecting said photoacoustic pressure wave signals generated by said irradiated surface; 3) comparing representations of said peak intensities of said photoacoustic pressure wave signals with a reference value corresponding to a photoacoustic pressure wave signal of a material comprising said selected layer to be exposed; and 4) directing said light source to irradiate said surface at a scan speed functionally related to a difference between said representations of said peak intensities of said photoacoustic pressure wave signals and said reference value. 24. The method of claim 23 including generating said light beam with a broadband flashlamp. 25. The method system of claim 24 including modulating said light beam at a frequency of 4-5 Hz. 26. The method of claim 23 including cooling said structure to prevent said light beam from causing heat damage to said structure by impinging a particle stream on said structure. 27. The method of claim 26 including cooling and cleaning said structure by impinging a particle stream comprised of carbon dioxide pellets entrained in a dry flowing gas stream on said structure. 28. A system for exposing a selected layer of a multilayered structure, comprising: a radient energy source for irradiating the surface material of a structure comprising one or more layers of material formed on a substrate with radient energy having sufficient intensity to ablate said irradiated material, where said irradiated material generates photoacoustic pressure wave signals having peak intensities in response to being irradiated; photoacoustic detecting means operably disposed for detecting said photoacoustic pressure wave signals generated by said irradiated material; data processor means operably coupled to said photoacoustic detecting means for comparing representations of said peak intensities of said photoacoustic pressure wave signals with a reference value corresponding to a photoacoustic pressure wave signal of one of said material comprising one of said layers of said structure selected to be exposed, and for generating a speed control output signal functionally related to a difference between said peak intensities of said photoacoustic pressure wave signal and said reference value; and positioning means operably coupled to receive said speed control output signal from said data processor means for supporting and scanning said radient energy source across said surface. 29. The system of claim 28 wherein said scan speed is functionally related to said difference by a decreasing function, and where said scan speed is a minimum scan speed if said peak intensities of said photoacoustic pressure wave signals peak are equal to or greater than a first threshold value, and said scan speed is a maximum scan speed if said peak intensities of said photoacoustic pressure wave signals are equal to or less than a second threshold value. 30. The system of claim 29 wherein said radient energy source is a broadband flashlamp for generating optical energy. 31. The system of claim 30 wherein said optical energy is modulated at a frequency of 4-5 Hz. 32. The system of claim 31 further including means for cooling said structure with a particle stream to prevent said optical energy beam from substantially changing the modulus of elasticity, shear strength, and tensile strength of said structure. 33. The system of claim 32 wherein said particle stream includes a stream of carbon dioxide pellets entrained in a flowing stream of dry gas directed to impinge said structure. 