A high pressure, high throughout, single wafer semiconductor processing reactor is disclosed which is capable of thermal CVD, plasma-enhanced CVD, plasma-assisted etchback, plasma self-cleaning and deposition topography modification by sputtering, either separately or as part of in-situ multiple step processing. The reactor provides uniform processing over a wide range of pressures including very high pressures. A low temperature process for forming a highly conformal layer of silicon dioxide from a plasma of TEOS, oxygen and ozone is also disclosed. This layer can be planarized using an etchback process. Silicon oxide deposition and etchback can be carried out sequentially in the reactor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for depositing a conformal layer of silicon oxide onto a substrate, comprising exposing the substrate surface heated to a temperature of from about 200.degree.-500.degree. C. to a plasma of reactive species formed from ozone, oxygen and tetraethylorthosilicate within a chamber having a pressure of at least about 10 torr. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein tetraethylorthosilicate is supplied to the chamber in an inert carrier gas. 3. A process according to claim 2 wherein said carrier gas is helium. 4. A process according to claim 1 wherein said substrate surface is patterned. 5. A process according to claim 1 wherein silicon oxide deposits onto the substrate at a rate of at least about 500 angstroms per minute. 6. A process according to claim 1 wherein silicon oxide deposits onto the substrate at a rate up to about 4000 angstroms per minute. 7. A process according to claim 1 wherein a dopant gas is added to said plasma. 8. A process according to claim 7 wherein said dopant gas is a phosphorus and/or boron-containing gas. 9. A process according to claim 8 wherein the silicon oxide contains from about 1 to about 10 weight percent of phosphorous and/or boron. 10. A planarization process comprising, in sequence: a) depositing a conformal silicon oxide layer on a patterned substrate in a chamber having a pressure of at least about 10 torr from a plasma comprised of a gaseous mixture of ozone, oxygen and tetraethylorthosilicate, said substrate heated to a temperature of about 200.degree. to 500.degree. C.; and b) etching said silicon oxide layer until the surface is planar. 11. A planarization process comprising, in sequence: a) depositing a first silicon oxide layer on a patterned substrate; b) depositing a second layer of conformal silicon oxide in a chamber having a pressure of at least about 10 torr from a plasma comprised of a gaseous mixture of ozone, oxygen and tetraethylorthosilicate, said substrate heated to a temperature of about 200.degree. to 500.degree. C.; and c) etching said second silicon oxide layer until the surface is planar. 12. A process according to claim 11 wherein said first silicon oxide layer is deposited from a plasma comprised of a gaseous mixture of tetraethylorthosilicate and oxygen in a plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition chamber having a pressure of from about 1 to 50 torr at a substrate temperature of about 300.degree.-500.degree. C. 13. A process according to claim 11 wherein said etch process is carried out from a mixture of a fluorinated gas in a chamber at a temperature of about 100.degree. to 500.degree. C. 14. A process according to claim 13 wherein said fluorinated gas is selected from the group consisting of tetrafluoromethane, trifluoronitride and hexafluoroethane in a carrier gas. 15. A process according to claim 12 wherein said etch process is carried out from a mixture of a fluorinated gas in a chamber at a temperature of about 100.degree. to 500.degree. C. 16. A process according to claim 15 wherein said fluorinated gas is selected from the group consisting of tetrafluoromethane, trifluoronitride and hexafluoroethane in a carrier gas. 