Embodiments of the present invention provide apparatus and methods for supporting, positioning or rotating a semiconductor substrate during processing. One embodiment of the present invention provides a method for processing a substrate comprising positioning the substrate on a substrate receiving surface of a susceptor, and rotating the susceptor and the substrate by delivering flow of fluid from one or more rotating ports.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for processing a substrate, comprising: positioning the substrate on a substrate receiving surface of a susceptor, wherein positioning the substrate on the susceptor comprises: extending three or more supporting pins through openings formed through the susceptor; receiving the substrate using the three or more substrate supporting pins; and transferring the substrate to the susceptor by lowering the three or more substrate supporting pins; and wherein the susceptor is disposed over a support assembly of a processing chamber, the support assembly comprises one or more supporting ports, one or more rotating ports, and each of the supporting ports and rotating ports is adapted to receive a fluid from a flow controller; raising the substrate to a processing position by delivering flow of fluid to the one or more supporting ports to float the susceptor and the substrate; rotating the susceptor and the substrate by delivering flow of fluid to the one or more rotating ports; aligning the openings in the susceptor with the three or more supporting pins by controlling the flow of fluid to the one or more rotating ports; and ceasing the flow of fluid to the one or more rotating ports to stop rotating the susceptor. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising heating the susceptor from a direction opposing the substrate receiving surface. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein heating the susceptor comprises transmitting radiant energy through a quartz window of the processing chamber. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more supporting ports and the one or more rotating ports are formed in the quartz window. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: lowering the susceptor by controlling the flow of fluid to the one or more supporting ports; and transferring the substrate from the susceptor to the three or more substrate supporting pins by extending the three or more supporting pins through openings formed through the susceptor. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein raising the substrate to a processing position further comprises lifting the support assembly. 