The present invention provides for an apparatus and method for installing weather stripping in a body door opening. In its preferred embodiment the present invention provides a robot which can load itself from a weather stripping station, transfer the weather stripping to the body door opening, and install the weather stripping within the body door opening. The present invention also provides an end of arm tooling device for a robot above described. The present invention also includes a vehicle produced by the robot above described.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property of privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A robot for installing a fixed length of weather stripping stored in a loading station into a body opening, said robot in combination comprising: an arm movable in both horizontal and vertical planes; means on the end of said arm to load said fixed length to said arm from said loading station; and affixing means on the end of said arm and moved by said robot arm for interacting with the opening of said body and guiding and applying said fixed length whereby said fixed length is affixed to the opening of said body. 2. A robot for installing a fixed length of weather stripping stored in a loading station into a body opening, said robot in combination comprising: an arm movable in both horizontal and vertical planes; a selectively operable gripper on the end of said arm to pull said fixed length from said loading station to load said arm; and a pressure roller rotatively mounted on the end of said arm and moved by said robot arm for tracing the opening of said body and guiding and applying said fixed length whereby said fixed length is affixed to the opening of said body. 3. A robot for installing a fixed length of weather stripping stored in a loading station into a body opening, said robot in combination comprising: an arm movable in both horizontal and vertical planes; a selectively operable gripper on the end of said arm to pull said fixed length from said loading station to load said arm; a guide roller rotatably mounted to the end of said arm having a first position of engagement with said fixed length to align said fixed length and said guide roller having a second position out of engagement with said fixed length; an idler roller on the end of said arm supporting said fixed length generally opposite said guide roller in said first position of said guide roller; and a powered pressure roller rotatively mounted on the end of said arm and moved by said robot arm having variable rotational velocity and compliance with respect to said arm in two axis, said pressure roller receiving said fixed length from said guide roller and guiding and applying said fixed length while tracing the opening of said body whereby said fixed length is affixed to the opening of said body. 