A method and apparatus for the fabrication of optical lenses by injection/compression molding of thermoplastic includes a plurality of sleeves, each having a bore therethrough, and a plurality of mold inserts dimensioned to be received in the bore with minimal clearance for sliding fit. The mold inserts each include a precision optical surface adapted to form a front or back surface of a lens. A selected pair of mold inserts are placed in the bore of a sleeve with front and back surface forming optical surfaces in confronting relationship to define a mold cavity, and the assembly is heated to a temperature above the glass transition temperature of the thermoplastic to be molded. An injection port extends through the sleeve to the bore, and is positioned to inject thermoplastic that has been heated to a fluid state into the cavity. After injection of the thermoplastic, the mold inserts are compressed together, and excess thermoplastic is forced out of the mold cavity. The mold inserts are then translated together relative to the sleeve to uncouple the injection port from the cavity. Compressive pressure is then maintained on the mold inserts while the mold assembly is cooled below the glass transition temperature. The mold inserts are pulled from the sleeve, and the finished lens is removed.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for molding a component in a molding cavity defined by a pair of axially spaced molds slidably mounted within a sleeve, which comprises the steps of spacing the molds to define a cavity having a volume in excess of that required to form the finished component, filling the cavity with a polymeric molding material at a temperature of the same order as the molds defining the molding cavity by extrusion through an inlet passage in said sleeve, at least the molds having been heated to a temperature above, but relatively close to, the glass transition temperature of the molding material, moving one or both molds to reduce the volume of the cavity to the desired size of the component plus any allowance for thermal shrinkage thereby compressing the molding material within the cavity and causing any excess molding material to be extruded out of the mold cavity, applying pressure to the molten material through one or both of the molds to form the component under conditions where shrinkage is accommodated while gradually cooling the molds, the sleeve and the component through the glass transition temperature, and removing the molds and the component from the sleeve. 2. The method of claim 1, further including the step of providing an annular groove within the sleeve and positioned to be in registration with the component as it cools below the glass transition temperature, whereby a peripheral portion of said component extends into said groove and retains the component in the groove. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said polymeric molding material comprises a thermoplastic molding material injected through said inlet passage at relatively high pressure. 4. The method of claim 1, further including the step of moving the molds and molten material filling the cavity relative to the sleeve to disconnect the molten component and the cavity from the inlet passage. 5. A method for molding a lens in a molding cavity defined by a pair of axially spaced molds slidably mounted within a sleeve, which comprises the steps of spacing the molds to define a cavity having a volume in excess of that required to form the finished lens, filling the cavity with a polymeric molding material at a temperature of the same order as the molds defining the molding cavity by extrusion through an inlet passage in said sleeve, at least the molds having been heated to a temperature above, but relatively close to, the glass transition temperature of the molding material, moving one or both molds to reduce the volume of the cavity to the desired size of the lens plus any allowance for thermal shrinkage thereby compressing the molding material within the cavity and causing any excess molding material to be extruded out of the mold cavity, applying pressure to the molten material through one or both of the molds to form the lens under conditions where shrinkage is accommodated while gradually cooling the molds, the sleeve and the lens through the glass transition temperature, and removing the molds and the lens from the sleeve. 6. The method of claim 5, further including the step of providing an annular groove within each of the sleeves and positioned to be in registration with each lens therein as it cools below the glass transition temperature, whereby a peripheral portion of each lens extends into said groove and retains the lens in the groove as the molds are withdrawn from the sleeve. 7. The method of claim 5, further including providing a plurality of front surface and back surface molds, each having a respective molding surface contoured and finished to form a complementary front surface or back surface of the lens, providing a plurality of sleeves, and selecting particular front surface and back surface molds according to their molding surface contours to define finished lenses having predetermined ophthalmic corrections. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said polymeric molding material comprises a thermoplastic molding material injected through the inlet passage of each sleeve at relatively high pressure. 9. The method of claim 7, further including the step of moving the molds and molten material filling the cavity relative to the respective sleeve to disconnect the molten lens and the cavity from the inlet passage of the sleeve. 10. An apparatus for molding finished ophthalmic lenses, comprising a plurality of molding assemblies, each molding assembly including a sleeve member having a bore extending therein, a pair of mold dies having contoured molding surfaces adapted to form complementary front and back surfaces of a lens, said dies further including outer peripheral surfaces dimensioned to be received in said bore with minimal clearance for sliding translation therein, said mold dies being received in said bore in spaced apart relationship to define therebetween a mold cavity; means for processing said plurality of molding assemblies individually and consecutively, including means for injecting a thermoplastic molding material in a molten state into said mold cavity, means for moving said mold dies together to compress said molding material and to squeeze excess molding material from said molding cavity. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said means for injecting thermoplastic molding material includes an injector port extending through said sleeve to said cavity. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, further including means for translating said mold dies in unison relative to said sleeve to translate said cavity out of communication with said injector port. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein said means for translating said dies in unison comprises first motive means connected to said sleeve. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein said means for urging said mold dies together to compress said molding material comprises second motive means connected to at least one of said mold dies. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said first and second motive means comprise first and second hydraulically operated pistons, respectively. 16. The apparatus of claim 12, further including an annular groove formed in said bore and disposed in registration with said cavity as said thermoplastic material cools, whereby a peripheral portion of the lens extends into said annular groove and the lens is retained thereby when said mold dies are removed from said bore. 17. The apparatus of claim 12, further including a compound press adapted to selectively urge said dies together and to translate said mold dies in unison relative to said sleeve. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said compound press includes a support bracket adapted to releasably engage said sleeve, and first hydraulic means for selectively translating said support bracket and said sleeve relative to said mold dies. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said support bracket includes a pair of spaced side walls having opposed, confronting grooves disposed therein, and said sleeve includes a flange extending therefrom and dimensioned to be slidably received in said confronting grooves. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein said compound press includes means for releasably engaging said mold dies in slidable fashion in the same direction as the orientation of said confronting grooves of said sleeve support bracket. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein each of said dies includes a backing plate, and said means for releasably engaging said mold dies includes gripper means for engaging said backing plates of said dies in releasable fashion. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, further including second hydraulic means disposed to translate reciprocally in the same operational direction as said first hydraulic means, said gripper means inmeans disposed to translate reciprocally in the same operational direction as said first hydraulic means, said gripper means including a gripper member secured to said second hydraulic means and disposed to engage a backing plate of one of said mold dies. 23. The apparatus of claim 19, further including a slot extending into said flange and adapted to be engaged by robot caliper grippers. 24. An apparatus for molding finished ophthalmic lenses, comprising; a plurality of molding assemblies, each molding assembly including a sleeve member having a bore extending therein, a pair of mold dies having contoured molding surfaces adapted to form complementary front and back surfaces of a lens, said dies further including outer peripheral surfaces dimensioned to be received in said bore with minimal clearance for sliding translation therein, said mold dies being received in said bore in spaced apart relationship to define therebetween a mold cavity; means for processing each of said plurality of molding assemblies in successive fashion, including means for releasably engaging one of said plurality of molding assemblies, means for injecting a molten thermoplastic molding material having a glass transition temperature into said mold cavity, and means for moving said mold dies together to compress said molding material; means for thermally cycling said plurality of molding assemblies, including means for heating each of said molding assemblies to a temperature above the glass transition temperature of said molding material prior to being engaged by said means for engagement, and means for cooling each of said molding assemblies after being released by said means for engagement to cool the molding material below the glass forming temperature thereof. 25. An apparatus for molding finished ophthalmic lenses, comprising; a plurality of molding assemblies, each molding assembly including a sleeve member having a bore extending therein, a pair of mold dies having contoured molding surfaces adapted to form complementary front and back surfaces of a lens, said dies further including outer peripheral surfaces dimensioned to be received in said bore with minimal clearance for sliding translation therein, said mold dies being received in said bore in spaced apart relationship to define therebetween a mold cavity; a mold filling device for processing said plurality of molding assemblies individually and consecutively, including means for releasably engaging each of said plurality of molding assemblies in serial order, means for injecting a molten thermoplastic molding material having a glass transition temperature into said mold cavity, and means for moving said mold dies together to compress said molding material; means for thermally cycling said plurality of molding assemblies, including means for heating each of said molding assemblies to a temperature above the glass transition temperature of said molding material prior to being engaged by said mold filling device, and means for cooling each of said molding assemblies below the glass transition temperature while said molding assemblies are disposed externally of said mold filling device. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said means for heating each of said molding assemblies to a temperature above the glass transition temperature of said molding material is also disposed externally of said mold filling device. 27. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said means for thermally cycling said plurality of molding assemblies also includes means for maintaining compressive force to urge said mold dies to compress said thermoplastic material while said thermoplastic material cools below the glass transition temperature. 28. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said means for releasably engaging each of said plurality of molding assemblies further includes means for compressing said dies together and squeezing excess thermoplastic material from said molding cavity. 