Methods and apparatus for removing condensed metal from the surfaces of metal processing chambers, such as, a vacuum induction metal (VIM) furnaces having, for example, condensed Mg or Ti, are disclosed. The methods and apparatus provide a robotic arm end positioned in the furnace having a nozzle operatively connected to a source of dry ice. The robotic arm end directs a stream of dry ice particles against the surface of the furnace to displace condensed metal. The displaced metal is collected for reuse or disposal. Aspects of the invention provide a safe and automated process for cleaning process chambers and recovering metal that can typically be dangerous when performed by conventional methods.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for removing condensed metal from a surface of a metal processing chamber, the method comprising: positioning a robotic arm end into the metal processing chamber; providing the arm end with a source of dry ice; directing a flow of dry ice against the surface of the metal processing chamber with the arm end to displace at least some condensed metal from the surface; and collecting at least some of the displaced material. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the processing chamber comprises a furnace. 3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the condensed metal comprises at least one of an Mg-containing material and a Ti-containing material. 4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the method further comprises providing the arm end with a nozzle, and wherein providing the arm end with the source of dry ice comprises providing the nozzle with a source of dry ice. 5. The method as recited in claim 4, wherein providing the nozzle with a source of dry ice comprises providing the nozzle with a source of dry ice particles under pressure. 6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein collecting at least some of the displaced material comprises drawing at least some of the displaced material from the chamber. 7. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein drawing at least some of the displaced material from the chamber comprises drawing at least some of the displaced material and gases from the chamber, and wherein the method further comprises isolating at least some of the displaced material from the displaced material and gases drawn from the chamber. 8. A method for removing condensed metal from a surface of a vacuum induction melting furnace, the method comprising: positioning a robotic arm end into the vacuum induction melting furnace; providing the arm end with a source of dry ice; directing a flow of dry ice against the surface of the vacuum induction melting furnace with the arm end to displace at least some condensed metal from the surface; and collecting at least some of the displaced metal. 9. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the condensed metal comprises at least one of a Mg-containing material and a Ti-containing material. 10. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein positioning the robotic arm end comprises positioning the robotic arm end above a crucible in the metal processing vacuum induction melting furnace. 11. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein positioning the robotic arm end above the crucible comprises mounting a plate on the crucible and operatively mounting the arm end above the plate. 12. A method for removing condensed metal from a surface of a metal processing chamber, the method comprising: positioning a robotic arm end above a crucible in the metal processing chamber; providing the arm end with a source of dry ice; directing a flow of dry ice against the surface of the metal processing chamber with the arm end to displace at least some condensed metal from the surface; and collecting at least some of the displaced material. 13. The method as recited in claim 12, wherein positioning the robotic arm end above the crucible comprises mounting a plate on the crucible and operatively mounting the arm end to the plate. 14. The method as recited in claim 12, wherein the processing chamber comprises a furnace. 15. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein the furnace comprises a vacuum induction melting furnace. 16. The method as recited in claim 13, wherein the plate comprises a turntable. 17. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein positioning the robotic arm end into the metal processing chamber comprises positioning a robot having the robotic arm end into the metal processing chamber. 18. The method as recited in claim 17, wherein positioning the robot having the robotic arm end into the metal processing chamber comprises positioning the robot on a support structure in the metal processing chamber. 19. The method as recited in claim 18, wherein positioning the robot on the support structure comprises positioning the robot on a dummy crucible. 20. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein positioning the robotic arm end into the vacuum induction melting furnace comprises positioning the robot having the robotic arm end on a support structure in the vacuum induction melting furnace. 21. The method as recited in claim 20, wherein positioning the robot on the support structure comprises positioning the robot on a dummy crucible. 22. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the method further comprises controlling the operation of the arm end with a controller. 23. The method as recited in claim 12, wherein the condensed metal comprises at least one of an Mg-containing material and a Ti-containing material. 