A thixoropic adhesive composition exhibiing good sag resistance is prepared comprising a mixture of a polymer-modified epoxy resin and a rheological control agent. The polymer-modified epoxy resin is preferably a dispersion of acrylic elastomer in an epoxy resin in which the acrylic elastomer particles have added hydroxyl functionality which interacts favorably with rheological control agents, such as fumed silica. Acrylic epoxy resin dispersions containing added hydroxyl functionality give improved rheological control.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A thixotropic adhesive composition exhibiting good sag resistance comprising a mixture of: a. a dispersion which comprises an uncured epoxy resin as a continuous phase having dispersed therein an in situ polymerized insoluble acrylic elastomer which has a plurality of hydroxyl functionality; and b. an effective amount of a rheological control agent which has a plurality of pendent hydroxyl groups. 2. The adhesive composition of claim 1 wherein the dispersion further comprises a dispersion stabilizer which has a moiety compatible with the epoxy resin and a moiety compatible with the in situ polymerized insoluble acrylic elastomer. 3. The adhesive composition of claim 1 wherein said rheological control agent is hydrophilic fumed silica. 4. The adhesive composition of claim 1 wherein said epoxy resin is a diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A. 5. The adhesive composition of claim 1 wherein said in situ polymerized insoluble acrylic elastomer is hydroxyethyl methacrylate. 6. A process for preparing the adhesive composition of claim 1 comprising: a. preparing a dispersion which comprises an uncured epoxy resin as a continuous phase having dispersed therein an in situ polymerized insoluble acrylic elastomer which has a plurality of hydroxyl functionality, and b. mixing together the dispersion and an effective amount of a rheological control agent which has a plurality of pendent hydroxyl groups. 7. The process of claim 6 further comprising the addition of an epoxy resin curing agent to the mixing together of the dispersion and the rheological control agent. 8. The process of claim 7 wherein said epoxy resin is a diglycidyl ether of bisphenol A. 9. The process of claim 8 wherein said in situ polymerized insoluble acrylic elastomer is derived from hydroxyethyl methacrylate. 10. The process of claim 9 wherein said epoxy resin curing agent is dicyandiamide. 11. The process of claim 10 wherein said rheological control agent is hydrophilic fumed silica. 12. A method for using the adhesive composition of claim 1 comprising: a. applying the adhesive composition to a first surface; b. contacting the first surface having the adhesive composition applied thereto with a second surface in a bonding relationship with the adhesive composition disposed between the surfaces; and c. curing the adhesive composition. 