A mobile robot along with a method and system for a mobile robot including a hydraulic powered mechanism operably connected to the mobile robot for movement of the hydraulic powered mechanism with respect to the mobile robot.
Claims I claim: 1. A mobile robot, comprising: A body member; and A hydraulic powered mechanism operably connected to the body member for movement with respect to the body member. 2. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the mechanism is an arm member. 3. The robot as defined in claim 1, including providing impedance control to the mechanism. 4. The robot as defined in claim 3, wherein the impedance control is provide by a series-elastic actuator. 5. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the mechanism is an articulating arm member having a hydraulic manipulator. 6. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the robot is a humanoid robot. 7. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the robot is autonomous. 8. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the body member includes a track drive type of propulsion mechanism. 9. The robot as defined in claim 1, including a mechanism that enables dynamic balancing of the robot. 10. The robot as defined in claim 9, where the robot can transition from a static operation to a dynamic balanced operation. 11. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the hydraulic powered mechanism is contained within the confines of the robot. 12. The robot as defined in claim 1, wherein the hydraulic powered mechanism is driven by an electrical power source. 13. A method of operating a mobile robot, comprising: Providing a robot body member; Providing an hydraulic powered mechanism operably connected to the body member for movement with respect to the body member; and Actuating the hydraulic powered mechanism when desired to accomplish a particular task. 14. The method as defined in claim 13, wherein the mechanism is an arm member. 15. The method as defined in claim 13, including providing impedance control to the mechanism. 16. The method as defined in claim 13, wherein the mechanism is an articulating arm member having a hydraulic manipulator. 17. The method as defined in claim 13, including providing a mechanism that enables dynamic balancing of the robot. 18. The method as defined in claim 13, wherein the hydraulic powered mechanism is contained within the confines of the robot. 19. A robotic system, comprising: A mobile robot; Wireless communication elements for controlling the operation of the mobile robot; and A self-contained hydraulic powered mechanism operably connected for movement with respect to the mobile robot. 20. A non-transitory computer readable media including program instructions which when executed by a processor causes the processor to perform the following: Provide various commands to enable desired movement of a mobile robot; and Enable a self-contained hydraulic powered mechanism operably connected to the mobile robot to move with respect to the mobile robot. 