A method and system for obstacle mapping for navigation of an autonomous vehicle is disclosed. The method comprises providing an autonomous vehicle with an image capturing device, and focusing the image capturing device at a predetermined number of different specified distances to capture an image at each of the specified distances. The method further comprises identifying which regions in the captured images are in focus, and assigning a corresponding lens-focus distance to each of the regions that are in focus. A composite image is formed from the captured images, with each of the regions labeled with the corresponding lens-focus distance. A three-dimensional obstacle map is then produced from the composite image. The three-dimensional obstacle map has an x, y, z coordinate system, with x being proportional to pixel horizontal position, y being proportional to pixel vertical position, and z being the lens-focus distance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of obstacle mapping for navigation of an autonomous vehicle, the method comprising: providing an autonomous vehicle with an image capturing device; focusing the image capturing device at a predetermined number of different specified distances to capture an image at each of the specified distances; identifying which regions in each captured image are in focus; assigning a corresponding lens-focus distance to each of the regions that are in focus; forming a composite image based on each captured image, with each of the regions labeled with the corresponding lens-focus distance; and producing a three-dimensional obstacle map from the composite image, wherein the three-dimensional obstacle map has an x, y, z coordinate system, with x being proportional to pixel horizontal position, y being proportional to pixel vertical position, and z being the lens-focus distance. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising employing the three-dimensional obstacle map in an obstacle avoidance algorithm. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the obstacle avoidance algorithm comprises a Laplacian path planning algorithm. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising producing a two-dimensional array of ranges for each of the regions that are in focus prior to producing the three-dimensional obstacle map. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the autonomous vehicle comprises an unmanned aerial vehicle. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the unmanned aerial vehicle comprises a micro air vehicle, or an organic air vehicle. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the image capturing device comprises a digital camera. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the digital camera provides seven range bins for an obstacle distance from 7 m to 52 m. 9. An obstacle detection and mapping system, comprising: an image capturing device configured to focus at a predetermined number of different specified distances to capture an image at each of the specified distances; a mapping module in operative communication with the image capturing device, wherein the mapping module has instructions to: identify which regions in each captured image are in focus; assign a corresponding lens-focus distance to each of the regions that are in focus; form a composite image based on each captured image, with each of the regions labeled with the corresponding lens-focus distance; and produce a three-dimensional obstacle map from the composite image, wherein the three-dimensional obstacle map has an x, y, z coordinate system, with x being proportional to pixel horizontal position, y being proportional to pixel vertical position, and z being the lens-focus distance; and an obstacle avoidance module in operative communication with the mapping module. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the image capturing device comprises a digital camera. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the digital camera is configured to provide seven range bins for an obstacle distance from 7 m to 52 m. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the obstacle avoidance module has instructions to employ the three-dimensional obstacle map in an obstacle avoidance algorithm. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the obstacle avoidance algorithm comprises a Laplacian path planning algorithm. 14. An autonomous vehicle comprising the obstacle detection system according to claim 9. 15. The autonomous vehicle of claim 14, wherein the vehicle comprises an unmanned aerial vehicle. 16. The autonomous vehicle of claim 15, wherein the unmanned aerial vehicle comprises a micro air vehicle, or an organic air vehicle. 17. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon for a method of obstacle mapping for navigation of an autonomous vehicle, the method comprising: focusing an image capturing device at a predetermined number of different specified distances from an autonomous vehicle to capture an image at each of the specified distances; identifying which regions in each captured image are in focus; assigning a corresponding lens-focus distance to each of the regions that are in focus; forming a composite image based on each captured image, with each of the regions labeled with the corresponding lens-focus distance; and producing a three-dimensional obstacle map from the composite image, wherein the three-dimensional obstacle map has an x, y, z coordinate system, with x being proportional to pixel horizontal position, y being proportional to pixel vertical position, and z being the lens-focus distance. 18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises employing the three-dimensional obstacle map in an obstacle avoidance algorithm. 19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the obstacle avoidance algorithm comprises a Laplacian path planning algorithm. 20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises producing a two-dimensional array of ranges for each of the regions that are in focus prior to producing the three-dimensional obstacle map. 