A printhead assembly is provided having at least one printhead module of at least two print nozzle integrated circuits and respective electrical connectors, at least one controller configured to process print data and to communicate the processed print data to microprocessing circuitry of at least one of the print nozzle integrated circuits via the respective electrical connector so as to control the printing operation of the print nozzle integrated circuit to print the processed print data, and a casing in which the printhead module and controller are removably mounted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two print nozzle integrated circuits and respective electrical connectors; at least one controller configured to process print data and to communicate the processed print data to microprocessing circuitry of at least one of the print nozzle integrated circuits via the respective electrical connector so as to control the printing operation of said print nozzle integrated circuit to print the processed print data; and a casing in which the at least one printhead module and at least one controller are removably mounted, wherein the casing comprises a support frame incorporating a longitudinally extending channel portion within which the at least one printhead module is mounted and a cover portion removably attached to the support frame. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the at least one printhead module comprises one or more groups of print nozzle integrated circuits and a single controller is selected for controlling each group of print nozzle integrated circuits via the respective electrical connectors. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: drive electronics are provided for driving the print nozzle integrated circuits via the respective electrical connectors; and the support frame supports the drive electronics. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the at least one controller and drive electronics are supported by at least one printed circuit board which is removably mounted to the support frame. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors are located within the casing and are provided for delivering power from a power supply to the at least one controller and the print nozzle integrated circuits. 