An improved planarization process is disclosed which comprises depositing over a patterned integrated circuit structure on a semiconductor wafer a conformal insulation layer by ECR plasma deposition of an insulation material. The ECR plasma deposition is carried out until the trenches or low regions between adjacent raised portions of the structure are completely filled with insulation material. A planarization layer of a low melting glass material, such as a boron oxide glass, is then flowed as it is deposited over the integrated circuit structure to a depth or thickness sufficient to cover the highest portions of the ECR plasma deposited insulation layer. This planarization layer is then anistropically etched back sufficiently to provide a planarized surface on the ECR plasma deposited insulation layer. A further layer of insulation material may then be conventionally CVD deposited over the planarized ECR plasma deposited insulation layer which acts to encapsulate any remaining portions of the planarizing layer.
Claims Having thus described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. A process for planarization of an integrated circuit structure in a vacuum apparatus, said structure having portions on the surface thereof higher than adjacent portion of the surface which comprises; (a) depositing a conformal insulation layer over said substrate using an ECR plasma deposition; (b) depositing a low melting inorganic planarization layer over said conformal insulation layer at a deposition temperature within a range of from about 100.degree. C. to about 700.degree. C. and sufficiently high within said range to permit said low melting inorganic planarizing layer to flow as it is deposited; and (c) etching said planarization layer to planarize said integrated circuit structure. 2. The process of claim 1 which comprises the further step of depositing a further insulation layer over said structure after said planarization step. 3. The process of claim 2 wherein said further deposition step comprises a CVD deposition step. 4. The process of claim 1 wherein said step of ECR plasma depositing said insulating layer further comprises depositing a layer of insulation material over said integrated circuit structure selected from the class consisting of silicon oxide, silicon oxynitride, silicon nitride, and phosphorus silicate. 5. The process of claim 4 wherein said step of ECR plasma depositing said insulating layer further comprises depositing a layer of silicon oxide over said integrated circuit structure. 6. The process of claim 1 wherein said ECR plasma deposition is carried out while maintaining the temperature of said deposition at from about 25.degree. C. to about 400.degree. C. and a pressure ranging from about 0.05 to about 20 millitorr. 7. The process of claim 1 wherein said ECR plasma deposition is carried out while maintaining a magnetic flux density used to provide the electron cyclotron resonance of said ECR plasma at a range of from about 500 to about 2500 gauss. 8. The process of claim 1 wherein said ECR plasma deposition is carried out using a microwave frequency to form the plasma ranging from about 1 to about 4 gHz and a plasma power level of from about 100 to about 1500 watts. 9. The process of claim 1 wherein said step of depositing said inorganic planarizing layer further comprises depositing an inorganic planarizing layer capable of being etched at about the same rate as said insulating layer. 10. The process of claim 9 wherein said step of depositing said low melting inorganic planarizing layer further comprises depositing within a temperature range of from about 300.degree. C. to about 500.degree. C. an inorganic planarizing layer of a material having a flow temperature of not greater than 500.degree. C. and which will flow at the deposition temperature. 11. The process of claim 10 wherein said step of depositing said low melting inorganic planarizing layer further comprises depositing an inorganic planarizing layer consisting essentially of one or more low melting glasses selected from the class consisting of B.sub.2 O.sub.3, B.sub.2 S.sub.6, B.sub.2 O.sub.3 /SiO.sub.2 mixtures, As.sub.2 O.sub.3, As.sub.2 S.sub.3, P.sub.2 O.sub.5 and combinations thereof. 12. The process of claim 11 wherein said step of depositing said planarizing layer of low melting glass further comprises depositing a layer of B.sub.2 O.sub.3 glass on said layer of insulation material. 13. A process for planarization of an integrated circuit structure in a vacuum apparatus, said structure having portions on the surface thereof higher than adjacent portion of the surface which comprises: (a) depositing a conformal insulation layer over said substrate, while maintaining said integrated circuit structure under vacuum, using an ECR plasma deposition which comprises; (i) maintaining a magnetic flux density at a range of from about 500 to about 2500 gauss to provide the electron cyclotron resonance used in said ECR plasma deposition; and (ii) using a microwave frequency to form said plasma ranging from about 1 to about 4 gHz and a plasma power level of from about 100 to about 1500 watts; (b) depositing over said conformal insulation layer, at a temperature within a range of from about 300.degree. C. to about 500.degree. C. and while maintaining said integrated circuit structure under vacuum, a planarization layer of a low melting inorganic glass material capable of being etched at about the same rate as said insulating layer and having a flow temperature of not greater than 500.degree. C., said deposition being carried out at a temperature within said range which will permit said low melting inorganic glass material to flow as it is deposited; (c) anisotropically dry etching said low melting glass planarization layer, while maintaining said integrated circuit structure under vacuum, to planarize said integrated circuit structure; and (d) CVD depositing a further insulation layer over said structure after said planarization step, while maintaining said integrated circuit structure under vacuum; whereby carrying out said steps of depositing said low melting glass planarization layer, anisotropically dry etching said low melting glass, and subsequently depositing a further insulation layer thereover, while maintaining said integrated circuit structure under vacuum, avoids exposing said low melting glass planarizing layer to moisture. 14. The process of claim 13 wherein said step of ECR plasma depositing said insulating layer further comprises depositing a layer of insulation material over said integrated circuit structure selected from the class consisting of silicon oxide, silicon oxynitride, silicon nitride, and phosphorus silicate. 15. The process of claim 13 wherein said step of depositing said low melting inorganic planarizing layer further comprises depositing an inorganic planarizing layer consisting essentially of one or more low melting glasses selected from the class consisting of B.sub.2 O.sub.3, B.sub.2 S.sub.6, B.sub.2 O.sub.3 /SiO.sub.2 mixtures, As.sub.2 O.sub.3, As.sub.2 S.sub.3, P.sub.2 O.sub.5 and combinations thereof. 16. The process of claim 13 including the step of locating one or more deposition zones and an etching zone in the same or separate portions of a common vacuum apparatus wherein said integrated circuit structure may be processed in one or more of said zones while maintaining said integrated circuit structure under vacuum in said apparatus. 17. A process for planarization of an integrated circuit structure in a vacuum apparatus, said structure having portions on the surface thereof higher than adjacent portion of the surface which comprises: (a) depositing a conformal insulation layer over said substrate selected from the class consisting of silicon oxide, silicon oxynitride, silicon nitride, and phosphorus silicate, while maintaining said integrated circuit structure under vacuum, using an ECR plasma deposition which comprises; (i) maintaining a magnetic flux density at a range of from about 500 to about 2500 gauss to provide the electron cyclotron resonance used in said ECR plasma deposition; and (ii) using a microwave frequency to form said plasma ranging from about 1 to about 4 gHz and a plasma power level of from about 500 to about 1500 watts; (b) depositing over said conformal insulation layer, at a temperature within a range of from about 300.degree. C. to about 500.degree. C. and while maintaining said integrated circuit structure under vacuum, a planarization layer of a low melting inorganic glass material capable of being etched at about the same rate as said insulating layer and having a flow temperature of not greater than 500.degree. C. and consisting essentially of one or more low melting glasses selected from the class consisting of B.sub.2 O.sub.3, B.sub.2 S.sub.6, B.sub.2 O.sub.3 /SiO.sub.2 mixtures, As.sub.2 O.sub.3, As.sub.2 S.sub.3, P.sub.2 O.sub.5 and combinations thereof, said deposition being carried out at a temperature within said range which will permit said low melting inorganic glass material to flow as it is deposited; (c) anisotropically dry etching said low melting glass planarization layer, while maintaining said integrated circuit structure under vacuum, to planarize said integrated circuit structure; and (d) CVD depositing a further insulation layer over said structure after said planarization step, while maintaining said integrated circuit structure under vacuum. 18. A process for planarization of an integrated circuit structure in a vacuum apparatus, said structure having portions on the surface thereof higher than adjacent portion of the surface which comprises; (a) depositing a conformal insulation layer over said substrate using an ECR plasma deposition; (b) depositing a low melting inorganic planarization layer over said conformal insulation layer at a deposition temperature within a range of from about 100.degree. C. to about 700.degree. C. and sufficiently high within said range to permit said low melting inorganic planarizing layer to flow as it is deposited; and (c) anisotropically dry etching said planarization layer to planarize said integrated circuit structure without removing said structure from said vacuum apparatus. 19. The process of claim 18 wherein said step of anisotropically etching said planarization layer further comprises removing a portion of said low melting inorganic planarization layer; and said process further comprises the additional step of depositing a further insulation layer over said structure to encapsulate any remaining portions of said planarizing layer. 20. The process of claim 18 wherein said step of depositing said low melting inorganic planarizing layer is carried out within a temperature range of from about 300.degree. C. to about 500.degree. C. 21. The process of claim 20 wherein said step of depositing said low melting inorganic planarizing layer is carried out within a temperature range of from about 390.degree. C. to about 480.degree. C. 