A system for storing and retrieving items to and from a storage receptacle which includes a track riding dolly carrying a robotic item handler for inserting and extracting items to and from storage The dolly also carries a multishelved caddy for receiving a plurality of items thereon. The item handler has the capacity to access each of the shelves of the caddy and may execute, under computer control, a selected sequence of item transfers between the caddy and storage during a single passage of the dolly from an on/off load point past the storage receptacle. A multishelved caddy loader queues a plurality of items received from an on-load device independently of the caddy, via vertical repositioning, and performs a bulk transfer of the queued items to the caddy when the caddy is available. A mass offloader device permits the bulk transfer of a plurality of items from the caddy to an offload receiver. A unit offloader sequentially offloads the offload receiver, via vertical repositioning of the offload receiver, onto an offload surface independently of the caddy.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for automatically transferring items to and from a storage receptacle with a capacity to store a plurality of items in a plurality of locations within a three dimensional spacial matrix form and to a selected on/off load point which comprises: A. caddy means for receiving a plurality of said items, said caddy means including a plurality of substantially parallel shelves vertically oriented with respect to each other with a spacing therebetween, said caddy means affixed to B. dolly means for carrying said caddy means between said storage receptacle and said on/off load point, said dolly means including locomotion means and locomotion control means for moving and positioning said dolly means at a selected location; C. item handler means affixed to said dolly means for transferring said items between said caddy means and said storage receptacle; D. elevator means and elevator control means for positioning said item handler means at a selected elevation; E. caddy loader means for simultaneously loading said plurality of items on said caddy means, said caddy loader means including a plurality of substantially parallel shelves vertically oriented with respect to each other having a spacing therebetween matching said spacing between said caddy means shelves; F. second elevator means and corresponding elevator control means for elevating said caddy loader means to a selected elevation; G. item pusher means for simultaneously pushing said items off said caddy loader shelves and onto said caddy means shelves after said caddy means and said caddy loader means are positioned next to each other via said locomotion means and said second elevator means such that said caddy loader means shelves are coplanar with said caddy means shelves, said item pusher means including pusher control means and a plurality of parallel pusher arms extending from a common pusher frame member and having a vertical spacing therebetween substantially matching that of said spacing between said caddy loader means shelves; and I. control means for managing and controlling said system including said locomotion means, said item handler means, said elevator means, said second elevator means and said item pusher means. 2. A system in accordance with claim 1, further including a vertical member attached at one end thereof to said dolly means and extending substantially parallel to said vertical orientation of said shelves, said item handler means slideably embracing said vertical member to permit elevation of said item handler by said elevator means. 3. A system according to claim 2, wherein said caddy means shelves are affixed to framework means attached a one end thereof to said dolly means and at another end to said vertical member distal to said dolly means. 4. A system in accordance with claim 1, wherein said item handler means includes a rotatable base member having item gripper means disposed on a top surface thereof for releasably grasping said items said control means controlling rotation of said base member and said item gripper means. 5. A system in accordance with claim 4, wherein said item gripper means is linearly extensively and retractable to permit said item gripper means to grasp said item beyond said rotatable base member when extended and draw said item onto said base member as said gripper means is retracted. 6. A system in accordance with claim 5 wherein said caddy means shelves are accessible to said extensively gripper means to allow said gripper means to deposit said item on a selected said caddy means shelf. 7. A system in accordance with claim 6, further comprising additional item sensor means for detecting an item and apprising said rotatable base member and item gripper control means of said item's distance form said item gripper means to permit said item gripper means to be positioned by said rotatable base member and said item gripper control means to allow said item to be grasped by said item gripper means. 8. A system in accordance with claim 1, further comprising onload means for loading items onto said caddy loader means shelves said control means controlling the loading of said items. 9. A system in accordance with claim 8, further comprising caddy offload means controlled by said control means for offloading said caddy means onto said caddy loader means. 10. A system in accordance with claim 9, wherein said offload means simultaneously offloads all said items from said plurality of caddy means shelves. 11. A system in accordance with claim 10, wherein said caddy offload means includes a plurality of parallel pusher arms extending form a common pusher frame member having a vertical spacing therebetween substantially matching that of said spacing between said caddy means shelves. 12. A system in accordance with claim 11, wherein said control means is a programmable digital computer. 13. A system in accordance with claim 12, wherein a vertical position sensor and a item sensor means each provide input data to said computer. 14. A system as in claim 13, further comprising base position sensor means for sensing angular displacement of a rotatable base means, gripper position sensor means for sensing extension of an item gripper means and gripper status sensor means for sensing whether a item gripper means is in a grasping or nongrasping state, each of said sensor means providing input data to said computer. 15. A system in accordance with claim 10, further comprising a caddy loader offloader means for sequentially offloading items from said caddy loader means. 16. A system in accordance with claim 15, wherein said sequential offloading is to a conveyor system. 17. A system in accordance with claim 8, wherein said onload means is a linear conveyor system. 18. A system in accordance with claim 8, wherein said caddy loader means includes a vertical position sensor means for providing said corresponding elevator control means with data on a vertical position of said caddy loader means. 19. A system in accordance with claim 18, further comprising item sensor means for sensing an item passing form said onload means to said caddy loader means. 20. A system in accordance with claim 1, further comprising track means for supporting said dolly means. 21. A system in accordance with claim 1, further comprising uniformly dimensioned bin means for holding said items therein. 