A system and method for generating a set of programming instructions for manipulating a vehicle frame are provided. A frame computing device obtains configuration information for an identified vehicle frame. The frame computing device sub-divides the selected vehicle frame into a set of regions and obtains programming modules for each of the components mounted in the set of regions. The frame computing device processes the program modules to generate a cumulative set of programming instructions for manipulating the vehicle frame.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A method executed by one or more computer processors for manipulating a vehicle frame, the method comprising generating a set of processing instructions for manipulating the vehicle frame by: obtaining a representation of a vehicle frame having a unique configuration; subdividing the representation of the vehicle frame into a plurality of at least four regions each representing a longitudinal segment of the vehicle frame, wherein at least two regions include an axle of the vehicle frame; for each region that represents a portion of the vehicle frame, obtaining an identification of local processing instructions corresponding to a manipulation of one or more components associated with the region and corresponding to the unique configuration; and dynamically generating a cumulative set of processing instructions for the vehicle frame from the local processing instructions corresponding to each region. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the unique configuration includes an identification of one or more components mounted on the vehicle frame. 3. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein obtaining a representation of the vehicle frame having a unique configuration includes: obtaining an identification of the vehicle frame; and obtaining a representation of the vehicle frame identifying the components mounted on the vehicle frame from a data store. 4. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein obtaining an identification of local processing instructions corresponding to a manipulation of components mounted on the vehicle frame and corresponding to the unique configuration includes: identifying one or more processing instructions for manipulating each component mounted on the vehicle frame in a current region; identifying an offset corresponding to the current region; and dynamically associating the offset with the one or more identified processing instructions. 5. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein the one or more processing instructions correspond to instructions for manipulating an automated robotic system. 6. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the cumulative set of processing instructions correspond to instructions for painting the vehicle frame and the one or more components mounted on the vehicle frame. 7. A method implemented by one or more computer processors for generating a set of processing instructions corresponding to the manipulation of a vehicle frame comprising: obtaining an identification of a vehicle frame and an identification of one or more components mounted on the vehicle frame; generating a representation of the vehicle frame subdivided into a plurality of regions each representing a portion of the vehicle frame; for each region that represents a portion of the vehicle frame, obtaining an identification of local processing modules that correspond to the components within the region; and compiling a cumulative set of processing modules for the vehicle frame from the local processing modules from each region, including adjusting a processing effect of the local processing modules for each region based on the other regions of the vehicle frame by at least one of: (1) eliminating redundant instructions; (2) resolving conflicting instructions; and (3) reordering the instructions. 8. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein obtaining an identification of a vehicle frame and an identification of one or more components mounted on the vehicle frame includes obtaining a vehicle identifier and wherein generating a representation of the vehicle frame subdivided into a plurality of regions includes recalling a representation of the vehicle frame corresponding to the vehicle identifier. 9. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein generating a representation of the vehicle frame subdivided into a plurality of regions includes subdividing the vehicle frame into four regions wherein at least two regions include an axle of the vehicle frame. 10. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein obtaining an identification of local processing modules corresponding to a manipulation of components associated with the vehicle frame includes: identifying one or more processing modules for manipulating each component associated with the vehicle frame in a current region; identifying an offset corresponding to the current region; and dynamically associating the offset with the one or more identified processing modules. 11. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein the one or more processing modules correspond to instructions for manipulating an automated robotic system. 12. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the cumulative set of processing modules correspond to instructions for painting the vehicle frame and the one or more components mounted on the vehicle frame. 13. A computer-readable medium having computer-executable modules for generating a set of programming instructions corresponding to the manipulation of a vehicle frame comprising: a modeling module for generating a representation of a vehicle frame subdivided into a plurality of regions each representing a portion of the vehicle frame, wherein the representation includes an identification of one or more components mounted on the vehicle frame; and a program synthesis module for obtaining an identification of processing instructions corresponding to a manipulation of components associated with the vehicle frame by region and for compiling a cumulative set of processing instructions for the vehicle frame from the local processing instructions from each region, wherein the compiling performed by the program synthesis module includes, for each region: calculating an offset for the region based on a longitudinal reference location of the vehicle frame; adjusting the local processing instructions based on the offset; and compiling the adjusted local processing instructions into the cumulative set of processing instructions. 14. The computer-readable medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the modeling module is configured to generate a representation of the vehicle frame that is subdivided into four regions wherein at least two regions include an axle of the vehicle frame. 15. The computer-readable medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the program synthesis module is configured to identify one or more local processing instructions for manipulating each component associated with the vehicle frame in a current region. 16. The computer-readable medium as recited in claim 15, wherein the program synthesis module is configured to associate the offset with the one or more identified local processing instructions for manipulating each component mounted on the vehicle frame in a current region. 17. The computer-readable medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the one or more local processing instructions correspond to instructions for manipulating an automated robotic system. 18. The computer-readable medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the cumulative set of processing instructions correspond to instructions for painting the vehicle frame and the one or more components mounted on the vehicle frame. 19. The computer-readable medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the modeling module obtains a vehicle identifier corresponding to the vehicle frame and recalls a representation of the vehicle frame corresponding to the vehicle identifier. 20. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising causing the cumulative set of processing instructions to be executed to manipulate the vehicle frame. 21. The computer-readable medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the compiling performed by the program synthesis module includes calculating an offset for a region based on at least one offset calculated for a different region. 