A high pressure, high throughput, single wafer, semiconductor processing reactor is disclosed which is capable of thermal CVD, plasma-enhanced CVD, plasma-assisted etchback, plasma self-cleaning, and deposition topography modification by sputtering, either separately or as part of in-situ multiple step processing. A low temperature CVD process for forming a highly conformal layer of silicon dioxide is also disclosed. The process uses very high chamber pressure and low temperature, and TEOS and ozone reactants. The low temperature CVD silicon dioxide deposition step is particularly useful for planarizing underlying stepped dielectric layers, either along or in conjunction with a subsequent isotropic etch. A preferred in-situ multiple-step process for forming a planarized silicon dioxide layer uses (1) high rate silicon dioxide deposition at a low temperature and high pressure followed by (2) the deposition of the conformal silicon dioxide layer also at high pressure and low temperature, followed by (3) a high rate isotropic etch, preferably at low temperature and high pressure in the same reactor used for the two oxide deposition steps. Various combinations of the steps are disclosed for different applications, as is a preferred reactor self-cleaning step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for depositing a conformal layer of silicon dioxide onto a substrate, comprising exposing the substrate to a reactive species formed from ozone, oxygen and tetraethylorthosilicate within a chamber, the pressure within the chamber being within the approximate range 10 torr to 200 torr and the substrate temperature being within the approximate range 200.degree. C. and 500.degree. C. 2. A process for forming a silicon oxide overlayer on a substrate within a chamber, comprising: positioning the substrate within a chamber and closely adjacent a manifold having a multiplicity of closely-spaced outlet holes closely-adjacent the substrate; and applying a mixture comprising ozone, oxygen and tetraethylorthosilicate to the manifold for communicating reactive nitrogen and oxygen species into the chamber via the outlet holes, while maintaining the substrate within the approximate range 200.degree. to 500.degree. C. and the chamber within the approximate range 10 to 200 torr. 3. The process of claim 2, further comprising communicating a purging gas into the chamber from the periphery of the manifold in a flow radially away from the substrate to confine the reactive species to the substrate. 4. The process of claim 2, wherein the substrate comprises a coating selected from silicon oxide, silicon nitride, silicon oxynitride and polysilicon, the process further comprising isotropically etching at least the silicon oxide overlayer in the chamber without breaking vacuum in the chamber following formation of the silicon oxide overlayer. 5. The process of claim 4, wherein the substrate coating is silicon oxide and is deposited by a plasma formed from a gas mixture which includes tetraethylorthosilicate, by communicating the gas mixture into the manifold while applying RF energy between the manifold and the substrate support and maintaining the pressure in the chamber within the range of about 1 to 50 torr and the temperature of the substrate within the range of about 200.degree. C. to 500.degree. C. 6. The process of claim 2, 3, 4 or 5, wherein the silicon oxide overlayer is formed using a chamber pressure of 40 to 120 torr and the silicon oxide substrate coating is formed using a chamber pressure of about 1 to 12 torr. 7. The process of claim 2, 3, 4 or 5, wherein the silicon oxide overlayer is formed using a chamber pressure of 40 to 120 torr and the silicon oxide substrate coating is formed using a chamber pressure of about 1 to 12 torr and the substrate temperature is maintained at about 375.degree. C. during the formation of both silicon oxide layers. 8. The process of claim 4 or claim 5, wherein the step of isotropically etching the silicon oxide comprises exposing the silicon oxide to a plasma formed from fluorinated gas selected from NF.sub.3, CF.sub.4 and C.sub.2 F.sub.6 in a carrier gas inlet to the chamber, with the substrate temperature being maintained within the range of about 100.degree. C. to 500.degree. C. 9. A process for planarizing a dielectric layer formed on a substrate in-situ in a chamber, comprising: first, depositing a first, conformal, relatively thick layer of silicon oxide by exposing the substrate to a reactive plasma by positioning the substrate on a support within a chamber and adjacent a gas inlet manifold which is an RF electrode and includes a multiplicity of closely-spaced gas outlet holes closely adjacent the substrate; and communicating a gas mixture containing tetraethylorthosilicate into the manifold while applying RF energy between the manifold and the substrate support, with the pressure in the chamber being within the range of about 1 to 50 torr and heating the substrate to within the range of about 200.degree. C. to 500.degree. C.; second, depositing a second, relatively thin silicon oxide layer on the first silicon oxide layer by applying a mixture comprising ozone, oxygen and tetraethylorthosilicate to the gas inlet manifold for communicating reactive nitrogen and oxygen species into the vacuum chamber via the outlet holes, while heating the substrate to within the approximate range 200.degree. C. to 500.degree. C. with the chamber pressure within the approximate range 10 to 200 torr; and third, isotropically etching the resulting composite film by exposing the composite to a plasma formed within said chamber, by communicating a reactive gas selected from fluorinated gases such as NF.sub.3, CF.sub.4 and C.sub.2 F.sub.6 into the gas inlet manifold, and applying RF energy between the gas inlet manifold and the substrate support and heating the substrate to within the approximate range 200.degree. C. to 500.degree. C. while maintaining the chamber pressure within the approximate range 200 mt to 20 torr. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising communicating a purging gas into the vacuum chamber from the periphery of the gas inlet manifold in a flow radially away from the substrate to confine the reactive species to the substrate. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising communicating purging gas into the vacuum chamber in upwardly and downwardly directed flows merging about the periphery of the substrate and then proceeding radially outwardly thereof for confining the reactive deposition species to the substrate. 12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: prior to the first step, positioning the substrate on the support and depositing on the dielectric layer a relatively thin silicon oxide layer using a reactive species formed from tetraethylorthosilicate, ozone and oxygen, a chamber pressure within the range of about 10 torr to 200 torr and while heating the substrate to within the range of about 200.degree. C. to 500.degree. C.; and between said second and third steps, depositing a relatively thick layer of silicon oxide onto the second silicon layer oxide using plasma formed from tetraethylorthosilicate and oxygen, chamber pressure within the range of about 1 torr to 50 torr and while heating the substrate to the range of about 200.degree. C. to 500.degree. C. 13. The method of claim 2 or 9, further comprising communicating an inert gas into the chamber. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the inert gas is communicated into the chamber via the base inlet manifold. 