A method of applying a clear glass primer material and then a black glass primer material onto the marginal edge of a windshield and/or rear window of a vehicle, in which a dispenser is employed to discharge such primer materials in discrete streams or drops. The streams or drops impinge upon the surface of the glass such that any ricocheting or deflection of the material will remain within the area to be coated or is entrapped by a felt wick or pad without splashing or overspray onto the surrounding surfaces. An optical detector is employed to monitor the streams or drops of primer material dispensed.
Claims It is claimed: 1. The method of dispensing discrete streams or drops of fluid coating material onto a glass substrate comprising the steps of: a) causing a wick means and a dispensing means to be moved relative to the glass; b) intermittently dispensing the fluid material from said dispenser means such that said streams or drops are propelled under pressure to impinge upon the substrate at an angle of incident which is less than 45.degree. while substantially avoiding the application of liquid coating material outside a portion of the substrate to be coated; and c) distributing the dispensed fluid material over the portion of the substrate to be coated by said wick means. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein at least some deflected droplets or particles of fluid coating material are entrapped by the wick means. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the fluid material is directed to impinge within the vicinity of an area formed between the wick means and the glass. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the discrete streams or drops of the fluid coating material impinge the portion of the glass to be coated in an area underneath a gripper assembly carrying the wick means. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the intermittent dispensing of the fluid coating material is varied over the portion of the substrates to be coated. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein a means for retaining the wick means is skewed with respect to the substrate, such that a gripper angle, the angle formed between a center line of the gripper and a line perpendicular to the substrate, is from about 1.degree. to about 15.degree.. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein force is applied to the wick means, such that the wick means makes sufficient contact with the substrate to uniformly distribute the fluid material, while also maintaining sufficient compliance to compensate for deviations in distance to the substrate. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the angle of incident is in the range of about 35.degree. to about 10.degree.. 9. The method of claim 1 comprising the step of: sensing the presence or absence of the discrete stream or drops dispensed from the dispenser, before the discrete stream or drops contact the substrate, and producing a single corresponding to the sensing; and comparing the signal with a reference. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the signal corresponds to a total number of discrete streams or drops dispensed over an interval. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of producing a signal includes: transmitting a beam of light; causing the discrete streams or drops to intersect with the beam of light; and generating a signal in response to the presence or absence of a stream or drop within the beam of light. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of producing a signal includes: determining a volume of fluid dispensed to said substrate over an interval of time and generating a corresponding measurement signal. 13. The method of claim 10 further including: transmitting a beam of light; causing the discrete stream or drop to intersect the beam of light; generating a signal corresponding to the presence of a discrete stream or drop within the beam; and generating said measurement signal corresponding to a summations of each signal corresponding to the presence of a discrete stream or drop within the beam over an interval. 14. The method of preparing glass for attachment to a vehicle comprising the steps of: a) causing a dispensing means to be moved with respect to the glass; b) dispensing a liquid primer material to form a stream; c) producing a signal corresponding to the presence or absence of the dispensed stream at a point between the dispensing means and the glass; and d) uniformly distributing the dispensed liquid primer material over an area of the glass. 15. The method of preparing glass for attachment to a vehicle comprising the steps of: a) causing a dispensing means to be moved with respect to the glass; b) intermittently dispensing a liquid coating material to form discrete streams or drops; c) sensing the presence or absence of the discrete streams or drops dispensed from the dispenser, before the discrete streams or drops contact the glass, and producing a signal corresponding to the sensing; d) distributing the dispensed liquid coating material over an area of the glass; and e) comparing the signal with a reference. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the signal of stem (c) corresponds to a total number of discrete streams or drops dispensed over an interval. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein step (c) includes: transmitting a beam of light; causing the discrete streams or drops to intersect with the beam of light; and generating a signal in response to the presence or absence of a stream or drop within the beam of light. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein step (c) further includes: generating said signal corresponding to an interval between the presence of a stream or drop in the beam of light and a subsequent presence of another stream or drop in the beam of light. 19. The method of claim 5 wherein step (c) includes: determining a volume of fluid dispensed to said glass over an interval of time and generating a corresponding measurement signal. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein step (c) further includes: generating a signal corresponding to the presence of a discrete stream or drop within a beam of light; and generating said measurement signal corresponding to a summations of each signal corresponding to the presence of a discrete stream or drop within the beam over an interval. 