Where components are drilled by means of a robot a problem occurs when different size holes are needed to be drilled. The existing solution to this problem is to provide a drill unit (including drill bit, chuck and feed device) for each size of hole to be drilled and programme the robot to select the appropriate drill unit from the series of drill units supplied, perform its task, replace the drill unit in its store and select a further drill unit. Thus a complete drill unit is changed for every change in hole size. The presently described arrangement provides means to effect only drill bit change, the chuck and feed unit remaining on the robot at all times. The arrangement also provides means to effect such drill bit change while the chuck is rotating thereby obviating the need to stop and restart every time the drill bit is changed.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for automatically effecting drill bit assembly change in a drill unit carried by robot means, the drill unit including chuck means rotatable about an axis of rotation for accepting, holding, and releasing a drill bit assembly, the chuck means having relatively movable means for effecting a chuck open condition in which the drill bit assembly can be accepted and released, and for effecting a chuck closed condition in which the drill bit assembly can be held, the apparatus characterised by including a drill bit assembly storage unit having a plurality of holding means for holding a corresponding number of drill bit assemblies in an attitude for acceptance by chuck means positioned by the robot means, with respect to a selected drill bit assembly, and the holding means therefor, urging means for axially urging each holding means from a storage position to a position in which the drill bit assembly held thereby is presented to the chuck means, chuck engagement means on said unit for each of said holding means positioned to engage the relatively movable means to effect sequential opening and closing of the chuck means, and sequencing means responsive to the position of the chuck means relative to the selected holding means to effect urging of the drill bit assembly into the chuck means in correct sequence. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1 in which the relatively movable means for effecting a chuck open condition and a chuck closed condition comprise outer and inner sleeves relatively movable along said axis of rotation characterised in that the chuck engagement means comprises an abutment member carried by the storage unit which, when the chuck is moved toward the holding means, engages the outer sleeve but allows the inner sleeve to continue to move toward the holding means to open the chuck means to receive the drill bit assembly. 3. Apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the abutment member is in the form of annular bearing pad such that engagement by the outer sleeve can occur whilst chuck rotation is taking place. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the holding means includes support means for allowing rotation of the drill bit assembly during holding by the holding means. 5. Apparatus according to claim 2 in which the sequencing means comprises first sensing means responsive to the open condition of the chuck means, second sensing means responsive to the presence of the drill bit assembly in the holding means, and valve means associated with said urging means responsive to signals from said first and second sensing means to actuate said urging means to urge the drill bit assembly toward the open chuck means. 6. Apparatus according to claim 5 in which the sequencing means further includes third sensing means responsive to the position of the holding means to cause said valve means associated with said urging means to actuate said urging means so as to move away from the chuck means only on closure of the chuck means. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6 in which the first, second, and third sensing means are arranged such that the urging means continues to urge the drill bit assembly into the chuck means, irrespective of movement of the chuck means by the robot, until the chuck means is closed. 