A coating end effector may be carried by a robot. A plasma spray head is mounted by a joint to the end effector. A plurality of actuators couple the end effector and plasma spray head to provide articulation of the joint. The apparatus may be used to coat an airfoil cluster of a gas turbine engine. The coating may include passing the head between the airfoils.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A coating apparatus comprising: a plasma spray head; an end effector; a multi-axis robot carrying the end effector; a joint mounting the plasma spray head to the end effector; and means for coupling the end effector and plasma spray head to provide multi-axis articulation of the joint, the means comprising: a plurality of push-pull actuators; and a plurality of guide tubes disposed on the end effector, each guide tube corresponding to one said actuator, wherein: each guide tube has a proximal end and distal end; and each actuator comprises a flexible member which passes through the corresponding guide tube from the proximal end to the distal end to be in connection with the spray head. 2. A coating apparatus comprising: a plasma spray head; an end effector; a multi-axis robot carrying the end effector; a joint mounting the plasma spray head to the end effector; and three push-pull actuators coupling the end effector and plasma spray head to provide multi-axis articulation of the joint; and a plurality of guide tubes disposed on the end effector, each guide tube corresponding to one said actuator, wherein: each guide tube has a proximal end and distal end; and each actuator comprises a flexible member which passes through the corresponding guide tube from the proximal end to the distal end to be in connection with the spray head. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein: the actuators are positioned to provide three-axis articulation of the joint. 4. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprising: a controller programmed to operate and articulate the joint to coat a vane cluster wherein the plasma spray head passes between first and second airfoils of the vane cluster. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein: the joint is a ball joint; each of the three push-pull actuators comprises a flexible member; and pitch control of the plasma spray head is provided by actuating a first of the three push-pull actuators opposite to the second and third push-pull actuators. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein: each flexible member comprises a wire. 7. A coating apparatus comprising: a robot; an end effector carried by the robot; a plasma spray head; a ball and socket joint mounting the plasma spray head to the end effector; a plurality of actuators disposed on the end effector and coupling the end effector and plasma spray head to provide multi-axis articulation of the joint; and a plurality of guide tubes disposed on the end effector, each guide tube corresponding to one said actuator, wherein: each guide tube has a proximal end and distal end; and each actuator comprises a flexible member which passes through the corresponding guide tube from the proximal end to the distal end to be in connection with the spray head. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein: the multi-axis articulation is about intersecting axes. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein: the articulation includes pitch articulation. 10. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein: the there are exactly three said actuators. 11. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein: the actuators are push-pull actuators. 12. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein: the robot is a six-axis robot. 13. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising: a flexible conduit coupled to the plasma spray head to guide a carrier gas and powder flow to the plasma spray head; a flexible conduit coupled to the head to guide a plasma gas flow to the plasma spray head; a flexible conduit coupled to the head to guide a coolant flow to the plasma spray head; a flexible conduit coupled to the head to guide the coolant flow from the plasma spray head; and at least one electrical power line coupled to the plasma spray head. 14. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising: a controller programmed to operate and articulate the plasma spray head to apply a coating to a vane cluster. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein: the controller is programmed to operate and articulate the plasma spray head to so that the plasma spray head passes between first and second airfoils of the cluster. 16. A method comprising: coating an airfoil cluster, the airfoil cluster comprising a metallic substrate including: at least first and second airfoils, each airfoil having a pressure side and a suction side, the pressure side of the first airfoil facing the suction side of the second airfoil, wherein the coating comprises, with the coating appratus of claim 1: moving the end effector; using the plurality of actuators to articulate the joint; and discharging a plasma spray from the plasma spray head to coat the cluster, including while the plasma spray head is between the first and second airfoils. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein: the cluster is a vane cluster having: a platform; a shroud; and at least said first and second airfoils extending between an outer face of the platform and an inner face of the shroud; and the articulating moves the plasma spray head between the platform and shroud. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein: the articulating comprises combined pitch, roll, and yaw. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein: the articulating comprises a pitch articulation. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein: the articulating comprises a combined at least two of pitch, roll, and yaw. 21. The method of claim 16 further comprising: separately directing flows of a carrier gas and a powder coating material to the plasma spray head. 22. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein: the actuators comprise three push-pull actuators. 23. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein: the actuators comprise a first actuator, a second actuator, and a third actuator; and pitch is controlled by actuating the first actuator differently from the second and third actuators. 24. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein: the first actuator is centrally coupled to the head and the second and third actuators are coupled at opposite sides of the head. 25. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein: said flexible member consists over at least a portion of said flexible member, of a flexible material. 