The present invention provides devices and methods for attachment of an endolumenal gastrointestinal device, such as an artificial stoma device, a gastrointestinal bypass sleeve or other therapeutic or diagnostic device, within a patient's digestive tract. In one application of the invention, an endolumenal bypass sleeve is removably attached in the vicinity of the gastroesophageal junction to treat obesity and/or its comorbidities, such as diabetes. The bypass sleeve may be at least partially deployed by eversion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of treating a patient, comprising the steps of: advancing a bypass sleeve deployment device transesophageally at least as far as the stomach; advancing a distal end of a bypass sleeve from the bypass sleeve deployment device distally into the intestine; attaching an attachment cuff in the vicinity of the gastroesophageal junction; and attaching a proximal end of the bypass sleeve to the attachment cuff. 2. A method as in claim 1, wherein the advancing a bypass sleeve step comprises everting the bypass sleeve under pressure. 3. A method as in claim 1, wherein the attaching an attachment cuff step comprises advancing at least one tissue anchor through tissue in the area of the gastroesophageal junction. 4. A method as in claim 3, wherein the attaching an attachment cuff step comprises advancing at least eight tissue anchors through tissue in the area of the gastroesophageal junction. 5. A method as in claim 1, wherein the attaching the bypass sleeve step comprises reversibly attaching the bypass sleeve to the attachment cuff. 6. A method as in claim 1, wherein advancing the bypass sleeve deployment device transesophageally step comprises advancing the bypass sleeve deployment device transesophageally to about the pylorus. 7. A method as in claim 1, wherein attaching the attachment cuff step comprises attaching the attachment cuff at the gastroesophageal junction. 8. A method as in claim 1, wherein attaching the attachment cuff step comprises attaching the attachment cuff no more than about 2 cm below the squamocolumnar junction. 9. A method as in claim 1, wherein attaching the attachment cuff step comprises attaching the attachment cuff no more than about 1 cm below the squamocolumnar junction. 10. A method as in claim 1, wherein attaching the attachment cuff step comprises attaching the attachment cuff transmurally in the vicinity of the gastroesophageal junction. 11. A method as in claim 1, wherein advancing a bypass sleeve from the bypass sleeve deployment device distally into the intestine step comprises advancing the distal end of the bypass sleeve from the bypass sleeve deployment device distally into the duodenum. 12. A method as in claim 1, wherein advancing a bypass sleeve from the bypass sleeve deployment device distally into the intestine step comprises advancing the distal end of the bypass sleeve from the bypass sleeve deployment device distally into the jejunum. 13. A method as in claim 1, wherein advancing a bypass sleeve from the bypass sleeve deployment device distally into the intestine step comprises advancing the distal end of the bypass sleeve from the bypass sleeve deployment device distally into the ileum. 14. A method as in claim 1, wherein the method is accomplished endoscopically. 15. A method as in claim 1, wherein the bypass sleeve deployment device comprises a filling catheter. 