A force-moment sensor, as an article of manufacture, for detecting and controlling movements of a robot arm, positionable between the arm and a tool wherein a pair of parallel disc or plate members are joined together adjacent their outer peripheries by a plurality of spaced apart unitary bridge elements or members to form a cylindrical chamber between the discs. In one form the ring member between the disc members has formed therein at least three generally circular or polygonal shaped bridge elements, each having a central opening therethrough. Each of the bridge elements extends across a slot extending circumferentially around a portion of and through the ring between the bridge elements, and a pair of slots at each end of and angularly transverse to the circumferential slot to define the circular bridge elements. In another form the two discs have complementary recesses cut at equal intervals in their peripheries to receive one or more platelets welded therein to the discs apart. Preferably, the edges of the platelets are similarly cut to form the bridge element within the platelets and then the edges of the platelets are carved to join the slot between the plates to leave the bridges as the sole connections between the plates. Also disclosed is a method of forming the sensor unit. Strain gages are mounted on the edges or center of the bridge elements to form sensing apparatus for detecting forces and/or moments in any of a plurality of mutually perpendicular directions to permit control of a robot arm and tool.
Claims I claim: 1. An article of manufacture for use as a multiple force and/or moment measuring element of a force-moment sensor unit, including a pair of parallel disc members joined together adjacent to the outer periphery of said discs by a plurality of circumferentially spaced bridge elements to form a hollow cylindrical chamber between said discs, each of said bridge elements being spaced from each other circumferentially around the periphery of said discs to thereby hold said discs generally parallel to each other and form a slot extending circumferentially between each of said bridge elements, and each of said bridge elements having a pair of transverse slots formed in the edges thereof extending generally transverse to the adjacent ends of said circumferential slot to define a generally circular load carrying member in each of said bridge elements for transmitting forces and moments between said parallel disc members. 2. An article in accordance with claim 1 in which said circular load carrying member of each of said bridge elements includes at least one surface generally perpendicular to said circumferential slot and generally radial to the central axes of said disc members. 3. An article in accordance with claim 2 in which each of said circular load carrying members includes a pair of diametrically opposed surfaces formed on the edges thereof. 4. An article in accordance with claim 3 in which said diametrically opposed surfaces are on central opening through said circular load carrying member. 5. An article of manufacture in accordance with claim 1 in which said circumferential slots extend radially and laterally between said parallel discs so that the attached ends of said bridge elements are the sole connection between said discs. 6. An article in accordance with claim 1 in which four bridge elements are equally spaced circumferentially around said parallel disc members. 7. An articles in accordance with claim 1 wherein each of said circumferential spaced bridge elements includes at least another bridge element parallel and radially adjacent thereto. 8. An article in accordance with claim 7 wherein said parallel bridge elements includes a second parallel and radially adjacent bridge element. 9. An article in accordance with claim 1 in which each of said discs includes a plurality of mounting means parallel to the axis of said disc, said mounting means being formed radially inwardly from said bridge elements and circumferentially spaced apart on the outer surface of said disc. 10. An article in accordance with claim 1 in which each of said discs includes a plurality of holes equally spaced radially from the axes and through said discs for mounting said unit between two axially aligned mounting surfaces. 11. A force-moment measuring unit for detecting forces and/or moments in a plurality of mutually perpendicular directions between a driving element and a driven element comprising a pair of substantially parallel circular plates adapted to be mounted between a driving plate and a driven plate; said plates being adapted for alignment therewith by mounting means formed on each of said plates; said parallel plates being joined together at their periphery by at least three equally spaced apart bridge elements, each of said bridge elements being a relatively thin and generally circular disc with diametrically opposed edges integral with adjacent faces of said plates, and the disc faces of said bridge elements substantially parallel to the axes of said plates, the edges of said discs extending between said plates including at least a pair of diametrically opposed mounting surfaces with strain gage means secured to said mounting surfaces of each bridge element for the detection of forces and/or moments between said driving and driven plates. 12. A force-moment measuring unit in accordance with claim 11 wherein each said bridge element includes a circular opening through the center of said disc. 13. A force-moment measuring unit in accordance with claim 11 wherein four bridge element discs are equally spaced circumferentially around the periphery of said parallel plates. 14. A force-moment measuring unit in accordance with claim 11 wherein each of said bridge elements includes a plurality of parallel discs radially adjacent each other and axially integral with the adjacent faces of said plates. 15. A force-moment measuring unit in accordance with claim 14 wherein each of said plurality of parallel discs includes a coaxial circular opening through the center thereof. 