A data processing device is used with peripheral devices having addresses and differing communication response periods. The data processing device includes a digital processor adapted for selecting different ones of the peripheral devices by asserting addresses of each selected peripheral device. Addressable programmable registers hold wait state values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges. Circuitry responsive to an asserted address to the peripheral devices asserted by the digital processor generates the number of wait states represented by the value held in one of the addressable programmable registers corresponding to the one of the address ranges in which the asserted address occurs, thereby accommodating the differing communication response periods of the peripheral devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data processing device for use with peripheral devices having addresses and differing communication response periods, the data processing device comprising: digital processor means for selecting different ones of the peripheral devices by asserting on a bus addresses of each selected peripheral device; addressable programmable registers for holding wait state values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges; and generator means, connected to the addressable programmable registers, responsive to an asserted address to said peripheral devices asserted by said digital processor means for generating a wait signal comprising a number of wait states represented by the value held in one of the addressable programmable registers and communicated to said generator means, said value corresponding to one of the address ranges in which the asserted address occurs, thereby accommodating the differing communication response periods of the peripheral devices. 2. The data processing devices of claim 1 further comprising address decoding means for decoding said asserted address connected to said addressable programmable registers and responsive to said digital processor means. 3. The data processing device of claim 2 further comprising an address bus having a set of lines, fewer than all of which lines are connected to said address decoding means so that said address decoding means is responsive to addresses by the address ranges in which the addresses occur. 4. The data processing device of claim 3 wherein the lines connected to said address decoding means from said address bus are most significant bit lines representative of memory pages. 5. The data processing device of claim 3 further comprising a data address bus having a set of lines connecting said address decoding means to said digital processor means, said address decoding means including means for addressing said addressable programmable registers individually in response to all of the lines of said data address bus. 6. The data processing device of claim 1 further comprising means responsive to a ready signal from at least one of the peripheral devices for altering the duration of the wait signal. 7. The data processing device of claim 6 further comprising a memory for storing software, said digital processor including means connected to said memory for executing the software to modify a wait state value in any selected one of the addressable programmable registers in response to the ready signal, the register selected depending on the address range in which an address was asserted to the peripheral which returned the ready signal. 8. The data processing device of claim 1 further comprising a memory for storing software, said digital processor including means connected to said memory for executing the software to load wait state values into the addressable programmable registers. 9. A data processing device for use with banks of memory having a memory space divisible by memory pages, the data processing device comprising: a digital processor and an address bus and a data bus for connecting the digital processor to the banks of memory; storing means, connected to the digital processor, addressable by said digital processor, said digital processor including means for entering values into said storing means defining respective numbers of wait states corresponding to the memory pages; and wait state generator means connected to the address bus for generating the number of wait states defined by a value in said storing means for a particular memory page when an address is asserted by the digital processor on the particular memory page. 10. The data processing device of claim 9 wherein the address asserted by the digital processor includes address bits indicating the memory page and the device further includes means connected to the address bus for accessing the storing means in response to the address bits indicating the memory page to retrieve the value defining the number of wait states for said wait state generator means. 11. The data processing device of claim 9 wherein said storing means includes a plurality of registers simultaneously holding values defining respective numbers of wait states corresponding to the memory pages. 12. The data processing device of claim 9 further comprising means responsive to a ready signal from at least one of said memory banks for overriding the number of waitstates provided by said wait state generator means. 13. A data processing device, comprising: a digital processor; a plurality of peripheral devices coupled to said digital processor, the peripheral devices having addresses addressable by said digital processor, said peripheral devices having different operating speeds for communication with said digital processor; and said digital processor having a higher maximum speed than at least one of said peripheral devices, and said processor including programmable means for generating wait states in response to the asserted addresses of the peripheral devices to accommodate the speed of each slower peripheral device on an individual basis. 14. The data processing system of claim 13 wherein said programmable means includes addressable programmable registers for holding values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges and means responsive to each particular address asserted by said digital processor to access peripheral devices for supplying the number of wait states represented by the programmable register for the range in which the particular address occurs. 15. The data processing system of claim 13 wherein the digital processor is connected to said plurality of peripheral devices free of glue logic. 16. The data processing system of claim 13 further comprising means responsive to a ready signal from at least one of said peripheral device for altering the number of wait states provided by said means for generating wait states. 17. The data processing system of claim 13 further comprising a memory for storing software, said digital processor including means connected to said memory for executing the software to load wait state values into the addressable programmable registers. 18. The data processing system of claim 13 wherein at least some of said peripheral devices comprise memory means having memory page boundaries and said means for generating wait states includes means for comparing the particular address asserted by said digital processor with the page boundaries to determine which of the addressable programmable registers holds the value indicative of the number of the wait states for said memory means. 19. The data processing system of claim 13 wherein said digital processor has a machine cycle rate and the apparatus further comprises an external bus connected between said peripheral devices and said digital processor, the external bus operating at the machine cycle rate of said digital processor. 20. A method of operating a data processing device with peripheral devices having addresses and differing communication response periods, the method comprising the steps of: programming addressable registers of a data processing device to hold values representative of distinct numbers of wait states corresponding to different address ranges; selecting different ones of the peripheral devices by asserting addresses of each selected peripheral device; and generating a number of wait states, in response to an asserted address to a peripheral device and in response to the value held in one of the programmable registers that corresponds to the address range of the peripheral device, thereby accommodating the data processing device to the differing communication response periods of the peripheral devices. 