A releasable locking mechanism comprising a pair of interconnecting members. One of the members has a cavity for receiving therein a terminal end on the other member generally configured to the cavity. The terminal end is laterally placed in the cavity and a spring biased plunger in the member having the terminal end engages the exterior wall of the cavity and moves backwardly allowing a locking sleeve on the member having the terminal end to be slid to a position surrounding the engaged terminal end in the cavity and locking the same. A frictional-held release sleeve is also provided on the member having the terminal end rearward of the locking sleeve which may be slid forwardly to release the locking sleeve from locking engagement.
Claims I claim: 1. A locking mechanism comprising: a first connecting member having a cavity with a bottom wall therein for receiving one end of a second connecting member therein; a second connecting member having a terminal end receivable in said cavity and generally conforming to the configuration of said cavity, said terminal end having a bottom wall generally conforming to the bottom wall of said cavity so that said terminal end bottoms out in said cavity thereby preventing lateral movement of said first and second connecting members, said second connecting member having a locking sleeve with an inner wall axially slidable thereon normally held in a position away from said terminal end by means of a spring biased detent on said connecting member disposed in a groove on the inner wall of said sleeve, and first releasable locking sleeve means associated with said second connecting member and said locking sleeve for releasing said locking sleeve and allowing the same to be slid to a position overlying said terminal end thereby retaining said terminal end in said cavity when said terminal end is disposed in said cavity. 2. In the locking mechanism of claim 1 including second locking means associated with said second connecting member and said locking sleeve for positively locking said locking sleeve in said position overlying said terminal end. 3. In the locking mechanism of claim 2 including a release sleeve mounted on said second connecting member and movable thereon from a position remote from said locking sleeve to a position engaging said second locking means thereby releasing said second locking means from locking engagement with said locking sleeve. 4. In the locking mechanism of claim 3 wherein said second locking sleeve means further including a shoulder on the inner wall of said locking sleeve remote from the end thereof adjacent said terminal end. 5. In the locking mechanism of claim 3 including release sleeve retention means associated with said second connecting member and said release sleeve for retaining the same in said remote position. 6. In the locking mechanism of claim 5 wherein said release sleeve retention means includes said release sleeve having an inner and outer wall with a groove in said inner wall receiving therein a spring biased detent mounted in said second connecting member. 7. In the locking mechanism of claim 6 including an annular stop at the end of said second connecting member opposite said terminal end, said release sleeve having a shoulder thereon abutting against said stop when in said remote position. 8. In the locking mechanism of claim 6 wherein said locking sleeve has an outer wall and including an undercut section at the end thereof opposite the end adjacent said terminal end providing a shoulder on the inner wall of said locking sleeve, said second locking sleeve means including a spring biased detent disposed in said second connecting member engaging the inner wall of said locking sleeve when said locking sleeve is in a position remote from said terminal end, said undercut section being disposed over said detent when said locking sleeve is in a position overlying said terminal end with said detent engaging said shoulder. 9. In the locking mechanism of claim 1 wherein said first releasable locking sleeve means further including a spring biased plunger movable from a first position normally biasing said detent into said groove to a second position releasing said detent from said groove. 10. In the locking mechanism of claim 9 wherein said first connecting member has a hole therein of an inner diameter slightly less than the outer diameter of said plunger and coaxially aligned with the longitudinal axis of said plunger when said terminal end is disposed in said cavity whereby said plunger enters said hole and is pushed against its spring bias to release said detent. 11. In the locking mechanism of claim 10 wherein the width of said terminal end along the longitudinal axis of said second connecting member is substantially the same as the width of said cavity along the longitudinal axis of said first connecting member. 12. In the locking mechanism of claim 1 wherein said first connecting member has an annular stop thereon against which said locking sleeve abuts when in said overlying position. 13. In the locking mechanism of claim 1 wherein said cavity is open at the top and said bottom wall is generally flat and upwardly and outwardly extending side walls on each side of said bottom wall, said terminal end also being generally flat and conforming to said first mentioned bottom wall with upwardly and outwardly side walls on each side of said last mentioned bottom wall also conforming to said first mentioned side walls. 14. In the locking mechanism of claim 1 including a first connector releasably coupled to the end of said first connecting means opposite said connector releasably coupled to the end of said second connecting means opposite said terminal end. 15. In the locking mechanism of claim 1 wherein the overall height of said terminal end when disposed in said cavity in a direction normal to the longitudinal axis of said second connecting member is substantially the same as the depth of said cavity in a direction normal to the longitudinal axis of said first connecting members so that the mating outer surfaces of said first and second connecting members when said terminal end is disposed in said cavity are substantially flush. 16. A locking mechanism comprising: a first elongated connecting member having a cavity with a bottom wall therein at one end with a forward wall portion with a hole therein having its longitudinal axis substantially coincident with the longitudinal axis of said first elongated connecting member; a second elongated connecting member having a terminal end conforming substantially to said cavity, said terminal end having a bottom wall generally conforming to the bottom wall of said cavity so that said terminal end bottoms out in said cavity thereby preventing lateral movement of said first and second connecting member, said elongated connecting member having a locking sleeve slidably mounted for axial movement on the exterior thereof, said locking sleeve having annular flanges at the front and rear ends thereof with a main body portion interconnecting the flanges having an inner and outer wall, a groove in said inner wall adjacent said front flange receiving therein a spring biased detent in said second connecting member, an undercut area in said inner wall adjacent said rear flange, and a release sleeve mounted on said second connecting member having a thin-walled generally cylindrical portion received in said undercut area and a main body portion abutting against said rear flange with an inner and outer wall, said inner wall having a diameter conforming generally to the exterior of said second connecting member. 17. In the locking mechanism of claim 16 wherein said release sleeve is frictionally held in position to the exterior of said second connecting member prior to release thereof. 18. In the locking mechanism of claim 17 wherein said release sleeve is frictionally held in position prior to release thereof. 19. In the locking mechanism of claim 17 wherein said release sleeve has a groove in said last mentioned inner wall receiving therein a spring biased detent mounted in said second connecting member rearwardly of said first mentioned detent, and a spring biased detent mounted in said second connecting member abutting against the inner wall of said locking sleeve when said locking sleeve is released from engagement with said first mentioned detent and moved to a position on said second connecting member over said second mentioned detent. 20. In the locking mechanism of claim 17 wherein a second spring biased detent is mounted in said second connecting member abutting against the inner wall of said locking sleeve when said locking sleeve is moved to a position on said second connecting member over said second detent. 21. In the locking mechanism of claim 20 wherein said second detent has a tapered upper wall with an apex abutting against said inner wall of said locking sleeve and tapering inwardly toward the central longitudinal axis of said second connecting member and rearwardly thereof. 22. In the locking mechanism of claim 21 including an annular flange on said second connecting member rearwardly of said second mentioned detent, said release sleeve having a shoulder rearwardly of said cylindrical portion, said last mentioned shoulder abutting against said last mentioned flange. 23. In the locking mechanism of claim 22 wherein said first mentioned detent is biased by a spring loaded plunger having a head portion extending in a direction away from said outer release sleeve of a first outer diameter integral with a main body portion of a second outer diameter greater than the first diameter with a tapered area interconnecting said head portion to said plunger main body portion, the longitudinal axis of said plunger being generally coincident with the longitudinal axis of said second connecting member, said first mentioned detent engaging the main body portion of said plunger. 24. In the locking mechanism of claim 23 wherein the outer diameter of said head portion is slightly less than the inner diameter of said hole in said first connecting member. 25. A locking mechanism comprising: a first connecting member having a cavity for receiving one end of a second connecting member therein; a second connecting member having a terminal end receivable in said cavity and generally conforming to the configuration of said cavity, said second connecting member having a locking sleeve slidable thereon normally held in a position away from said terminal end, and first releasable locking sleeve means associated with said second connecting member and said locking sleeve for releasing said locking sleeve and allowing the same to be slid to a position overlying said terminal end thereby retaining said terminal end in said cavity when said terminal end is disposed in said cavity, said first releasable locking sleeve means includes said locking sleeve having an inner and outer wall, a groove in said inner wall, said second connecting member having at least one detent disposed in said groove when said locking sleeve is held in a position away from said terminal end, said first releasable locking sleeve means further including a spring biased plunger movable from a first position normally biasing said detent into said groove to a second position releasing said detent from said groove. 26. In the locking mechanism of claim 25 wherein said first connecting member has a hole therein of an inner diameter slightly less than the outer diameter of said plunger and coaxially aligned with the longitudinal axis of said plunger when said terminal end is disposed in said cavity whereby said plunger enters said hole and is pushed against its spring bias to release said detent. 27. In the locking mechanism of claim 26 wherein the width of said terminal end along the longitudinal axis of said second connecting member is substantially the same as the width of said cavity along the longitudinal axis of said first connecting member. 28. A locking mechanism comprising: a first connecting member having a cavity for receiving one end of a second connecting member therein; a second connecting member having a terminal end receivable in said cavity and generally conforming to the configuration of said cavity, said second connecting member having a locking sleeve slidable thereon normally held in a position away from said terminal end, and first releasable locking sleeve means associated with said second connecting member and said locking sleeve for releasing said locking sleeve and allowing the same to be slid to a position overlying said terminal end thereby retaining said terminal end in said cavity when said terminal end is disposed in said cavity; second locking means associated with said second connecting member and said locking sleeve for positively locking said locking sleeve in said position overlying said terminal end; a release sleeve mounted on said second connecting member and movable thereon from a position remote from said locking sleeve to a position engaging said second locking means thereby releasing said second locking means from locking engagement with said locking sleeve; release sleeve retention means associated with said second connecting member and said release sleeve for retaining the same in said remote position, said release sleeve retention means including said release sleeve having an inner and outer wall with a groove in said inner wall receiving therein a spring biased detent mounted in said second connecting member, said locking sleeve having an inner and an outer wall and including an undercut section at the end thereof opposite the end adjacent said terminal end providing a shoulder on the inner wall of said locking sleeve, said second locking sleeve means including a spring biased detent disposed in said second connecting member engaging the inner wall of said locking sleeve when said locking sleeve is in a position remote from said terminal end, said undercut section being disposed over said detent when said locking sleeve is in a position overlying said terminal end with said detent engaging said shoulder. 29. A locking mechanism comprising: a first elongated connecting member having a cavity at one end with a forward wall portion with a hole therein having its longitudinal axis substantially coincident with the longitudinal axis of said first elongated connecting member; a second elongated connecting member having a terminal end conforming substantially to said cavity, said second connecting member having a locking sleeve slidably mounted on the exterior thereof, said locking sleeve having annular flanges at the front and rear ends thereof with a main body portion interconnecting the flanges having an inner and outer wall, a groove in said inner wall adjacent said front flange receiving therein a spring biased detent in said second connecting member, an undercut area in said inner wall adjacent said rear flange, and a release sleeve mounted on said second connecting member having a thin-walled generally cylindrical portion received in said undercut area and a main body portion abutting against said rear flange with an inner and outer wall, said inner wall having a diameter conforming generally to the exterior of said second connecting member, said release sleeve being frictionally held in position to the exterior of said second connecting member prior to release thereof; a second detent having a tapered upper wall with an apex abutting against said inner wall of said locking sleeve and tapering inwardly toward the central longitudinal axis of said second connecting member and rearwardly thereof; an annular flange on said second connecting member rearwardly of said second mentioned detent, said release sleeve having a shoulder rearwardly of said cylindrical portion, said last mentioned shoulder abutting against said last mentioned flange, said first mentioned detent being biased by a spring loaded plunger having a head portion extending in a direction away from said outer release sleeve of a first outer diameter integral with a main body portion of a second outer diameter greater than the first diameter with a tapered area interconnecting said head portion to said plunger main body portion, the longitudinal axis of said plunger being generally coincident with the longitudinal axis of said second connecting member, said first mentioned detent engaging the main body portion of said plunger. 30. In the locking mechanism of claim 29 wherein the outer diameter of said head portion is slightly less than the inner diameter of said hole in said first connecting member. 31. A locking mechanism comprising: a first elongated connecting member having a cavity at one end with a forward wall portion with a hole therein having its longitudinal axis substantially coincident with the longitudinal axis of said first elongated connecting member; a second elongated connecting member having a terminal end conforming substantially to said cavity, said second connecting member having a locking sleeve slidably mounted on the exterior thereof, said locking sleeve having annular flanges at the front and rear ends thereof with a main body portion interconnecting the flanges having an inner and outer wall, a groove in said inner wall adjacent said front flange receiving therein a spring biased detent in said second connecting member, an undercut area in said inner wall adjacent said rear flange, and a release sleeve mounted on said second connecting member having a thin-walled generally cylindrical portion received in said undercut member having a thin-walled generally cylindrical portion received in said undercut area and a main body portion abutting against said rear flange with an inner and outer wall, said inner wall having a diameter conforming generally to the exterior of said second connecting member, said release sleeve being frictionally held in position to the exterior of said second connecting member prior to release thereof, and said release sleeve having a groove in said last mentioned inner wall receiving therein a spring biased detent mounted in said second connecting member rearwardly of said first mentioned detent, and a spring biased detent mounted in said second connecting member abutting against the inner wall of said locking sleeve when said locking sleeve is released from engagement with said first mentioned detent and moved to a position on said second connecting member over said second mentioned detent. 