A robotic system that can have a body and four flippers is described. Any or all of the flippers can be rotated. The flippers can have self-cleaning tracks. The tracks can be driven or passive. The robotic system can be controlled by, and send audio and/or video to and/or from, a remote operator control module. The methods of using and making the robotic system are also described.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic vehicle system comprising: a chassis; track drive system configured to move the chassis, wherein the track drive system comprises a pulley, a pulley cap, and a track, and wherein the pulley cap is attached to the pulley away from the chassis, and wherein a diameter of the pulley cap is equal to or greater than a diameter of the pulley; wherein the pulley cap comprises a track interface, and wherein the track comprises a pulley cap interface, and wherein the track interface is configured to releasably engage the pulley cap interface. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the pulley cap has a diameter less than an outer diameter of the track when the track is on the pulley. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the pulley cap interface comprises a nub extending from an inside of the track, and wherein the track interface comprises a radial vane. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein a side of the chassis adjacent to the track system is adapted to retain the track on the pulley. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the side of the chassis adjacent to the track system is larger than an inner diameter of the track. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the track interface comprises a vane-less surface. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the track interface is configured to frictionally engage the pulley cap interface. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein a side of the track is smooth. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein a surface of the side of the track is configured to frictionally interface with an adjacent surface. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the track interface comprises a rib. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the track interface comprises a fin. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the track interface is fin-less, and rib-less, and vane-less. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the pulley cap is configured to rotate independently of the rotation of the track. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the track comprises a feature configured to increase grip on the pulley. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the pulley is configured to turn the track, and wherein the track is tensioned with a track tension to the pulley, and where the track tension is at least 0.4 N. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the chassis is configured to maintain an alignment of the track on the pulley. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the track drive system further comprises a flipper, and wherein the flipper is rotatable with respect to the chassis. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the pulley cap is configured to rotate the flipper when the pulley cap rotates. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the flipper comprises a track guide and wherein the track guide is configured to align the track with the pulley. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein the pulley has a first radial rib, a second radial rib, and an outer wall, wherein a first length of the outer wall spans between the first radial rib and the second radial rib, and wherein the first length of the outer wall is configured to deform when a foreign object is between the first length and the track. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the pulley cap interface is geometrically mated to the track interface. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein when the pulley cap interface is misaligned with the track interface, the pulley cap interface is configured to flexibly engage the track interface and configured to flexibly disengage the track interface, causing the pulley cap interface to align with the track interface. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein pulley cap is configured to flexibly disengage the pulley cap interface from the track interface. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the pulley cap interface is configured to rotate with respect to the track interface. 