The invention concerns an automated vending system which uses a commercially available, multi-axis robot arm to retrieve an article from a storage location and deliver the article to a customer. The invention includes a control system which interacts with at least three entities: (a) the customers; (b) credit card agencies, as by verifying the customer's credit situation and by performing daily credit reconciliations; and (c) the control system of the robot arm, as by informing the robot which articles to retrieve. The invention includes a display which provides to the customer a catalog of articles, and allows the customer to choose an article for purchase from the catalog. The invention allows remote control of the vending system, by telephone, whereby the system can be shut down in case of malfunction. If the vending system is used to sell music recordings, the invention allows the customer to hear samples of selected recordings available for sale.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated system for vending recorded music packaged in generally flat boxes, comprising: a) an articulated, multi-limbed robotic arm having a control system which controls motion of the limbs in response to a command to move the arm to a designated place; b) a gripper supported by the arm and having two conveyor belts capable of pinching one of the boxes therebetween and drawing the box into a pair of channels in the gripper; c) several stacks of horizontal boxes, at least partially surrounding the robotic arm, with a vertical space between adjacent stacks, the stacks being grouped into planar panels; d) several stacks of vertical boxes, located near respective vertical spaces, but farther from the arm than the horizontal boxes, with movable carriers associated with at least some vertical boxes for moving vertical boxes into the vertical space for allowing grasping by the gripper; e) communication means for communicating with a customer; f) computation means connected to the communication means and to the control system, for i) allowing a customer to designate boxes for purchase; ii) ascertaining the location of the designated box, in terms of rack address and x-y position within a rack; iii) informing the control system of the location, and prompting the control system to articulate the arm in order to position the gripper near the designated box; iv) accepting payment from the customer; and v) responding to external commands by doing one or more of the following: A) transmitting stored information; B) storing received information; C) terminating electric power to a component of the station; or D) connecting electric power to a component of the station; and g) means for playing samples of recorded music which is available for purchase, in response to a request by a person. 2. A system according to claim 1 in which the gripper conveyor belts comprises moving surfaces which can grasp and withdraw an article from a stored location, without bulk motion of either the gripper or the robotic arm. 3. A system according to claim 1 in which each of the planar panels forms one side of a polygon. 4. A system according to claim 1 in which the articles are supported by racks, and the articles rest in two different orientations in the racks. 5. A system according to claim 4 in which the gripper executes one sequence of actions in grasping articles of the first orientation, and a different sequence of actions in grasping articles of the second orientation. 6. A system according to claim 4 in which the articulated arm comprises a plurality of limbs articulated about respective axes, such that movement of several limbs is required to move the gripper from (A) a position for gripping articles of the first orientation to (B) a position for gripping articles of the second orientation. 7. A system according to claim 4 in which the gripper means comprises means for repositioning articles which are vertically oriented, prior to withdrawal of the vertical article. 8. A system according to claim 1 in which the articles of vertical orientation are supported by movable carriers which can be moved closer to the arm. 9. A system according to claim 1 further comprising a sensor on the gripper which produces one type of signal when an article enters the gripper and a second type of signal when the artical has further entered the gripper. 10. An automated system for vending recorded music packaged in generally flat boxes, comprising: a) a multi-limbed robotic arm having a control system which controls motion of the limbs in response to a command to move the arm to a designated place; b) a transport device, supported by the arm, for transporting boxes; c) several stacks of horizontal boxes, oriented adjacent to the robotic arm, wherein the stacks are grouped into planar panels; d) communication means for communicating with a customer; e) computation means connected to the communication means and to the control system, for i) allowing a customer to designate boxes for purchase; ii) ascertaining the location of the designated box, in terms of rack address and x-y position within a rack; iii) informing the control system of the location, and prompting the control system to move the arm in order to position the transport device near the designated box; iv) accepting payment from the customer; and v) responding to external commands by doing one or more of the following: A) transmitting stored information; B) storing received information; C) terminating electric power to a component of the station; or D) connecting electric power to a component of the station; and f) means for playing samples of recorded music which is available for purchase, in response to a request by a person. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the transport device includes a gripper which is comprised of two conveyor belts arranged and configured for pinching individual boxes therebetween and drawing the box into a pair of channels in the gripper. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein adjacent stacks have vertical spaces located therebetween, and further comprising several stacks of vertical boxes, located near respective vertical spaces, but farther from the arm than the horizontal boxes, with movable carriers associated with at least some vertical boxes for moving vertical boxes into the vertical space for allowing grasping by the transport device. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein the robot arm is articulated. 14. An automated system for vending recorded music packaged in generally flat boxes, comprising: a) a multi-limbed robotic arm having a control system which controls motion of the limbs in response to a command to move the arm to a designated place; b) a transport device, supported by the arm, for transporting boxes; c) a grouping of vertical boxes, located near the robot arm, the vertical boxes being arranged and configured to be grasped by the transport device; d) communication means for communicating with a customer; e) computation means connected to the communication means and to the control system, for i) allowing a customer to designate boxes for purchase; ii) ascertaining the location of the designated box, in terms of rack address and x-y position within a rack; iii) informing the control system of the location, and prompting the control system to move the arm in order to position the transport device near the designated box; iv) accepting payment from the customer; and v) responding to external commands by doing one or more of the following: A) transmitting stored information; B) storing received information; C) terminating electric power to a component of the station; or D) connecting electric power to a component of the station; and f) means for playing samples of recorded music which is available for purchase, in response to a request by a person. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising several stacks of horizontal boxes, wherein the horizontal boxes are located adjacent to the robotic arm, are cooperatively interspersed with the vertical boxes, and are generally oriented into planar panels. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein the transport device includes a gripper which is comprised of two conveyor belts arranged and configured for pinching individual boxes therebetween and drawing the box into a pair of channels in the gripper. 17. The system of claim 14, wherein the robot arm is articulated. 