Position, velocity and direction of movement of a linear motor is determined by a fiberoptic encoder comprised of first and second fiberoptic bundles. The first ends of each of the bundles have their fibers arranged within a narrow elongated slit, the fibers of each bundle being distributed substantially along the entire length of the slit and further so that the fibers of the bundles are substantially interspersed with one another along said slit. One of the bundles conveys light directed upon the opposite end of the bundle to a surface adjacent said slit and along which the linear motor is moving. The remaining bundle conveys light reflected from the surface to a sensor which converts the intensity of the reflected light into an electrical signal. Changes in the reflectivity of the surface, which may be the etched stator of a linear motor system are utilized to determine the position of the linear motor along the stator. The direction of movement is determined through the utilization of a pair of encoders of the type described wherein the slits of each encoder are arranged in spaced parallel fashion, the spacing being related to the spacing of the pattern on the etched stator to obtain motion and direction detection. Use of a plurality of pairs of encoders having the aforesaid arrangements provides for position, acceleration velocity and direction detection as well as rotation detection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Encoder means mounted upon a linear motor for detecting movement of said linear motor along a platen surface having a predetermined surface pattern of grid lines wherein portions of the pattern have a reflectivity characteristic which is different from the reflectivity characteristic of the remainder of said platen surface, said encoder means comprising: a plurality of flexible, elongated optical fibers each capable of transmitting light rays impinging on one end to an opposite end thereof and being arranged in a bundle; a housing having an opening for receiving said fibers and for maintaining said fibers in said bundle in intimate contact; said housing having a narrow, elongated, linear slit positioned in close proximity to said surface; the free ends of fibers in said bundle extending into and terminating at said slit; said slit having a predetermined length; the free ends of the fibers substantially completely filling said slit; a first portion of the group of fibers being gathered together to form a first light conveying branch bundle extending away from said slit; a second portion of remaining fibers of said group of fibers being gathered together to form a second light conveying branch bundle extending away from said slit; the ends of the fibers in said first light conveying branch bundle extending into said main bundle being distributed along the length of said slit; the ends of the fibers in said second branch bundle being distributed along the length of said slit; means for directing light rays onto the free ends of the fibers in said first branch bundle, whereby the free ends of the first branch bundle fibers extend into said slit to direct light upon said surface along a full length of said slit; sensing means positioned adjacent a free end of said second branch bundle for generating a signal responsive to light rays reflected by said platen surface onto said main bundle and conveyed by the fibers in said second branch bundle to said sensing means; the length of said slit being greater than a pitch of the grid lines on the platen surface being scanned by said encoder means. 2. The encoder means of claim 1 wherein the length of said slit is approximately 1.0 inch. 3. The encoder means of claim 1 wherein the pattern on said platen surface is comprised of first and second sets of grid lines orthogonal to one another each set being spaced apart at predetermined uniform distances; the length of said slit being greater than said predetermined uniform distance. 4. The encoder means of claim 3 wherein said uniform distance is of the order of 0.004 inches. 5. The encoder means of claim 3 wherein the grid lines define teeth arranged in regular rows and columns, said teeth being arranged twenty-five teeth per inch. 6. The encoder means of claim 5 wherein the length of said slit is significantly greater than the length of a tooth. 7. The encoder means of claim 6 wherein the slit is of the order of 1.0 inches. 8. Encoder means comprising: a housing mounted upon a linear motor and having a surface provided with a pair of elongated, narrow slits arranged in spaced parallel fashion; said linear motor being movable along a platen surface; said slits being positioned in close proximity to said platen surface; a plurality of elongated light transmissive optical fibers arranged in first and second groups; a first end of each of said first and second groups of fibers each arranged in one of said slits and being tightly bundled therein forming first and second main bundles; said slits each forming elongated linear openings; the opposite ends of each main bundle being divided into first and second branch bundles; the optical fibers of each branch bundle being arranged along the length of its associated slit; means for introducing light rays into the fibers of each first branch bundle for directing light upon said surface of said platen adjacent said slits; and means for converting light rays reflected from said platen surface and conveyed by each of said second branch bundles into electric signals for representing one of distance, velocity and acceleration. 9. The encoder means for claim 8 wherein the platen surface along which said detection means is moved is provided with first and second rows of spaced parallel grooves arranged perpendicular to one another to form a grid-like pattern; the spacing between said slits being less than the spacing between adjacent parallel grooves. 10. The encoder means of claim 8 wherein the spacing between adjacent parallel grooves is in the range from 0.010 to 0.090 inches. 11. The encoder means of claim 10 wherein the spacing between said slits is of the order of 0.010 inches. 12. The encoder means of claim 10 wherein the spacing between the center lines of said slits is S=.+-.0.020 inches +n(Pinches), where n=0, 1, 2, . . .N and P is the pitch between said grooves. 13. The encoder means of claim 8 wherein the fibers of said first and second branch bundles are interspersed in alternating fashion in each slit. 14. The encoder means of claim 8 wherein each of said branch bundles is arranged within a covering sleeve. 15. The encoder means of claim 8 wherein the grid lines define teeth arranged in regular rows and columns, said teeth being arranged twenty-five teeth per inch. 16. The encoder means of claim 8 wherein said optical fibers, said means for introducing light rays, and said means for converting light rays are all contained within said housing. 17. The encoder means of claim 8 wherein the hollow housing of substantially perpendicular parallelipiped shape; said slits being arranged in one surface of said housing; said optical fiber bundles extending into a surface of said housing which is opposite and parallel to said surface having said slits. 18. The encoder means of claim 8 wherein the hollow housing is of substantially perpendicular parallelipiped shape; said slits being arranged in one surface of said housing; said optical fiber bundles extending into a surface of said housing which is opposite and parallel to said surface having said slits. 19. The encoder means of claim 8 wherein the hollow housing is of substantially perpendicular parallelipiped shape; said slits being arranged in one surface of said housing; said optical fiber bundles extending into a surface of said housing which is adjacent and perpendicular to the surface containing said slits. 20. Means for detecting the movement of a linear motor in mutually perpendicular directions relative to a stationary platen including first and second encoder means, each encoder means comprising: a housing having a surface provided with a pair of elongated, narrow slits arranged in spaced parallel fashion; a plurality of elongated light transmissive optical fibers arranged in first and second groups; a first end of each of said first and second groups of fibers each arranged in one of said slits and being tightly bundled therein forming first and second main bundles; the opposite ends of each main bundle being divided into first and second branch bundles; said first and second branch bundles of each main bundle having a substantially equal number of optic fibers; the optic fibers of each branch bundle being arranged along an entire length of its associate slit; means for introducing light rays into the fibers of each first branch bundle for directing light along an entire length of the slit upon a platen surface adjacent said slits; means for converting light rays reflected from said surface and conveyed by said second branch bundles into electric signals for representing one of distance velocity and acceleration; the slits of said first encoder means being arranged on said linear motor perpendicular to the slits of said second encoder means. 21. Means for detecting the movement of a linear motor in mutually perpendicular directions relative to a surface of a stationary platen including first, second and third encoder means, each encoder means comprising: a housing having a surface provided with a pair of elongated, narrow slits arranged in spaced parallel fashion; a plurality of elongated light transmissive optical fibers arranged in first and second groups; a first end of each of said first and second groups of fibers each arranged in one of said slits and being tightly bundled therein forming first and second main bundles; the opposite ends of each main bundle being divided into first and second branch bundles; said first and second branch bundles of each main bundle having a substantially equal number of optic fibers; the optic fibers of each branch bundle being arranged along the length of its associated slit; means for introducing light rays into the fibers of each first branch bundle for directing light upon a surface of said platen adjacent said slits; means for converting light rays reflected from said platen surface and conveyed by said second branch bundles into electric signals; the slits in said first and second encoder means being arranged on said body so as to be parallel to one another; the slits in said third encoder means being arranged on said body so as to be perpendicular to the slits of said first and second encoder means. 22. The encoder means of claim 8 wherein the means for introducing light rays into the fibers of said first branch bundles is a single light source. 23. The encoder means of claim 22 wherein said single light source is a light emitting diode. 24. The encoder means of claim 8 wherein the means for introducing light rays into the fibers of said first branch bundles is a single light source; the ends of said first branch bundles receiving light from said single light source being commingled into a common bundle to receive light from said light source. 25. The encoder means of claim 15 wherein said slits have a length substantially greater than several of said teeth. 