Detection of image salience in a visual display of an image. The image is analyzed at multiple spatial scales and over multiple feature channels to determine the likely salience of different portions of the image. One application for the system is in an advertising context. The detection may be improved by second order statistics, e.g. mean and the standard deviations of different image portions relative to other portions. Different edges may be considered as being extended edges by looking at the edges over multiple spatial scales. One set of feature channels can be optimized for use in moving images, and can detect motion or flicker. The images can be obtained over multiple spectral ranges the user can be instructed about how to maximize the saliency. This can be applied to automatically evaluate and optimize sales or advertisement displays.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: using a computer or processor to transform an image representation into a two dimensional spatial map to predict which parts in said image may be perceived as visually conspicuous by a human observer, and processing, by using a computer or processor, said predicted visually conspicuous parts to change visual appearance of objects or locations in said image to improve conspicuity or saliency of the objects or locations in the image. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein said parts may attract the visual attention of said observer. 3. A method as in claim 1, wherein said parts may attract the eye gaze of said human observer. 4. A method as in claim 1, wherein said image representation may be a digital capture of some portion of the real world. 5. A method as in claim 1, wherein said perceived is by an animal observer. 6. A method as in claim 1, wherein said perceived is by a robotic device. 7. A method as in claim 1, wherein said transforming comprises analyzing pixels of said image using mean pixel values. 8. A method as in claim 1, wherein said transforming comprises analyzing pixels of said image using higher order statistical variations. 9. A method as in claim 1, wherein said image representation includes a single image at a single time. 10. A method as in claim 1, wherein said image representation includes a sequence of images over time. 11. A method as in claim 1, wherein said using comprises evaluating an effectiveness of said image in an advertising context. 12. A method as in claim 1, wherein said using comprises evaluating a display showing one or more items for sale. 13. A method as in claim 1, wherein said transforming comprises obtaining information about the image in at least a first spectral range and a second spectral range that is a different spectral range than said first spectral range; and correlating said information about the image in said first spectral range to information in said second spectral range. 14. A method as in claim 1, further comprising using said transforming to optimize a display of visual information. 15. A method as in claim 1, wherein said processing changes visual appearance of objects or locations in said image while maintaining visual appearance of parts of said image not associated with said objects or locations. 16. A method as in claim 1, wherein the change to visual appearance of objects or locations in said image changes a part of said image but not the entirety of said image. 17. A method, comprising: using a computer or processor to transform an image representation into a spatial map to predict which parts in said image may be perceived as visually conspicuous by a human observer; and processing, by using a computer or processor, said predicted visually conspicuous parts to determine effectiveness of said image in displaying its contents, wherein the transforming comprises: obtaining information about the image in at least a first spectral range and a second spectral range that is a different spectral range than said first spectral range; and correlating said information about the image in said first spectral range to information in said second spectral range. 18. A method, comprising: using a computer or processor to transform an image representation into a two dimensional spatial map to predict which parts in said image may be perceived as visually conspicuous by a human observer, wherein said predicted visually conspicuous parts comprises at least a first set of visually conspicuous parts and a second set of visually conspicuous parts, and processing, by using a computer or processor, said predicted visually conspicuous parts to change visual appearance of objects or locations in said image to improve conspicuity or saliency of the objects or locations in the image, wherein the processing changes visual appearance of visually conspicuous parts in the first set of visually conspicuous parts differently from how the processing changes visual appearance of visually conspicuous parts in the second set of visually conspicuous parts. 19. A method as in claim 18, wherein the change to each of the predicted visually conspicuous parts comprise at least one of change to texture, shape, spatial scale, color, orientation, and intensity. 