A robotic transport and assembly system includes a worktable upon which are supported a printed circuit board conveyor, a controllably displaceable circuit component feed mechanism and a robotic manipulator, mounted on the worktable and having a multi(four)-axis end effector, for controllably seizing an electronic circuit component from the component feed mechanism and placing the seized component on the printed circuit board for surface mounted attachment. The controllably displaceable circuit component feed mechanism, which includes a component feed device and an associated feeder device positioning table, is mounted on the worktable at a position adjacent to the position whereat a printed circuit board is supported for the pick and placement operation of the robotic manipulator. The component feed device controllably supplies a plurality of the components to be seized by the end effector and placed on said workpiece by the robotic manipulator. A control processor is coupled with the robotic manipulator and the transport mechanisms for controlling their operation such that, during a pick and placement cycle, the component feed device locates the next component to be captured by the robotic manipulator at pickup point which is centrally located within the work envelope of the robotic manipulator. In other words, control of the component feed device positioning mechanism is dependent upon the next transport action of the robotic manipulator, so as to effectively minimize component capture and surface mount cycle time.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system for transporting and assembling a plurality of components with respect to a workpiece comprising: a worktable upon which said workpiece is supported; a robotic manipulator, coupled with said worktable and having an end effector, for controllably seizing a component from a component feed mechanism and placing said seized component on said workpiece; said component feed mechanism being coupled with said worktable, containing a plurality of component feed devices arranged adjacent to one another, each feed device storing and feeding a plurality of components, and including transport means, arranged to be coupled with each of said adjacent component feed devices, for causing a component in any of said plurality of component feed devices to be transported to a position to be seized by said end effector, so as to be placed on said workpiece by said robotic manipulator; and control means, coupled with said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism, for controlling the operation of said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism such that, during travel of said robotic manipulator and said transport means to a position whereat a component is seized by said robotic manipulator for placement on a component mounting position on said workpiece, there is simultaneous translational movement of said end effector and said transport means. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said component feed devices are arranged in side-by-side parallel relationship. 3. A system according to claim 2, wherein said transport means includes means for causing a component in any of said plurality of component feed devices to be transported to a position to be seized by said end effector for placement on said workpiece by said robotic manipulator, such that said side-by-side, parallel relationship of said component feed devices is maintained during transport. 4. A system according to claim 1, further including workpiece conveyor means, coupled with said worktable, for controllably conveying said workpiece with respect to a location on said worktable whereat said robotic manipulator places components that have been seized from said component feed mechanism. 5. A system according to claim 4, wherein said worktable is sized to accommodate differently sized workpieces. 6. A system according to claim 1, further including a camera device, optically coupled with said workpiece, for enabling visually inspection of the component placement operation carried out by said end effector. 7. A system for transporting and assembling a plurality of components with respect to a workpiece comprising: a worktable upon which said workpiece is supported; a robotic manipulator, coupled with said worktable and having an end effector, for controllably seizing a component from a component feed mechanism and placing said seized component on said workpiece; said component feed mechanism being supported on said worktable adjacent to the location where said workpiece is supported, containing a plurality of component feed devices arranged adjacent to one another, each feed device storing and feeding a plurality of components, and including transport means, coupled with each of said adjacent component feed devices, for transporting each of said plurality of component feed devices, so that a component stored and fed by one of said component feed devices and to be seized by said end effector is delivered to a pick-up position from which said component may be seized and placed on said workpiece by said robotic manipulator; and control means, coupled with said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism, for controlling the operation of said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism such that, during travel of said robotic manipulator and said transport means to a position whereat a component is seized by said robotic manipulator for placement on a component mounting position on said workpiece, there is simultaneous translational movement of said end effector and said transport means, thereby shortening the travel time of said end effector and increasing the system's speed of assembly. 8. A system according to claim 7, wherein said pick-up position is located at a prescribed location in the work envelope of said robotic manipulator. 9. A system according to claim 7, wherein said component feed devices are arranged in side-by-side parallel relationship. 10. A system according to claim 7, further including workpiece conveyor means, coupled with said worktable, for controllably conveying said workpiece with respect to a location on said worktable whereat said robotic manipulator places components that have been seized from said component feed mechanism. 11. A system according to claim 10, wherein said worktable is sized to accommodate differently sized workpieces. 12. A system according to claim 7, further including a camera device, optically coupled with said workpiece, for enabling visually inspection of the component placement operation carried out by said end effector. 13. A system for transporting and assembling a plurality of components with respect to a workpiece comprising: a worktable upon which said workpiece is supported; a robotic manipulator, coupled with said worktable and having an end effector, for controllably seizing a component from a component feed mechanism and placing said seized component on said workpiece; said component feed mechanism being coupled with said worktable and being displaceable with respect to the location of said workpiece, and controllably supplying a plurality of said components to be seized by said end effector and placed on said workpiece by said robotic manipulator, said component feed mechanism including a plurality of component feed transport devices, each component feeder transport device supplying a plurality of components for placement by said robotic manipulator on said workpiece and being positioned adjacent to that location on said worktable whereat said workpiece is supported; and control means, coupled with said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism, for controlling the operation of said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism such that, for each cycle of travel to seize a component and place a seized component on said workpiece by said robotic manipulator said component feed mechanism is positioned at a location which shortens travel time of said end effector and including means for controlling the operation of said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism such that there is simultaneous translational movement of said end effector and said component feed mechanism to a location whereat a component supplied by said feed mechanism for placement on said workpiece is seized by said end effector and transported thereby to be placed on a prescribed component mounting location on said workpiece. 14. A system according to claim 13, wherein said worktable is sized to accommodate differently sized workpieces. 15. A system according to claim 13, wherein said component feed mechanism comprises means for storing a plurality of said components and controllably feeding individual ones of said plurality of components to a position to be seized by said end effector and placed thereby on said workpiece. 16. A system according to claim 15, wherein said component feed mechanism further includes transport means, coupled with said worktable and said storing and controllably feeding means, for controllably transporting said storing and controllably feeding means over the surface of said worktable. 17. A system according to claim 13, further including workpiece conveyor means, coupled with said worktable, for controllably conveying said workpiece with respect to a location on said worktable whereat said robotic manipulator places components that have been seized from said component feed mechanism. 18. A system according to claim 13, further including a camera device, optically coupled with said workpiece, for enabling visual inspection of the component placement operation carried out by said end effector. 19. A system according to claim 18, wherein said worktable is configured to accommodate differently sized workpieces. 20. A system for transporting and assembling a plurality of components with respect to a workpiece comprising: a worktable upon which said workpiece is supported; a robotic manipulator, coupled with said worktable and having an end effector, for controllably seizing a component from a component feed mechanism and placing said seized component on said workpiece; said component feed mechanism being coupled with said worktable and being displaceable with respect to the location of said workpiece, for controllably supplying a plurality of said components to be seized by said end effector and placed on said workpiece by said robotic manipulator wherein said component feed mechanism includes a plurality of component feeder transport devices, each component feeder transport device supplying a plurality of components for placement by said robotic manipulator on said workpiece and being positioned adjacent to that location on said worktable whereat said workpiece is supported; and control means, coupled with said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism, for controlling the operation of said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism such that, for each cycle of travel to seize a component and place a seized component on said workpiece by said robotic manipulator, said component feed mechanism is positioned at a location which effectively minimizes travel distance between successive component mounting locations on said workpiece, and including means for controlling the operation of said robotic manipulator translational movement of said end effector and said component feed mechanism to a location whereat a component supplied by said feed mechanism for placement on said workpiece is seized by said end effector and transported thereby to be placed on a prescribed component mounting location on said workpiece. 21. A system according to claim 20, wherein said end effector includes a mechanism for positioning a component seized thereby in a prescribed orientation. 22. A system according to claim 21, wherein said workpiece comprises a printed circuit board and said components include electronic circuit components to be mounted on and interconnected with one another by way of said printed circuit board. 23. A system according to claim 20, wherein said worktable is configured to accommodate differently sized workpieces. 24. A system according to claim 20, wherein said component feed mechanism comprises means for storing a plurality of said components and controllably feeding individual ones of said plurality of components to a position to be seized by said end effector and placed thereby on said workpiece. 25. A system according to claim 24, wherein said component feed mechanism further includes transport means, coupled with said worktable and said storing and controllably feeding means, for controllably transporting said storing and controllably feeding means over the surface of said worktable. 26. A system according to claim 20, further including workpiece conveyor means, coupled with said worktable, for controllably conveying said workpiece with respect to a location on said worktable whereat said robotic manipulator places components that have been seized from said component feed mechanism. 27. A system according to claim 20, further including a camera device, optically coupled with said workpiece, for enabling visual inspection of the component placement operation carried out by said end effector. 28. A system according to claim 26, wherein said end effector includes a mechanism for positioning a component seized thereby in a prescribed orientation. 29. A system according to claim 28, wherein said worktable is configured to accommodate differently sized workpieces. 30. A system according to claim 29, wherein said component feed mechanism comprises means for storing a plurality of said components and controllably feeding individual ones of said plurality of components to a position to be seized by said end effector and placed thereby on said workpiece. 31. A system according to claim 30, wherein said component feed mechanism further includes transport means, coupled with said worktable and said storing and controllably feeding means, for controllably transporting said storing and controllably feeding means over the surface of said worktable. 32. A system according to claim 31, wherein said workpiece comprises a printed circuit board and said components include electronic circuit components to be mounted on and interconnected with one another by way of said printed circuit board. 33. A system for transporting and assembling a plurality of electrical circuit components for surface mounting on a printed circuit board comprising: a worktable upon which said printed circuit board is supported; a robotic manipulator, coupled with said worktable and having a multi-axis end effector, for controllably seizing an electrical component from a component feed mechanism and placing said seized component on said printed circuit board; wherein said component feed mechanism, coupled with said worktable and being displaceable with respect to the location of said printed circuit board, controllably supplies a plurality of said components to be seized by said end effector and placed on said printed circuit board by said robotic manipulator, said component feed mechanism including a plurality of component feeder transport devices, each component feeder transport device supplying a plurality of components for placement by said robotic manipulator on said workpiece and being positioned adjacent to that location on said worktable whereat said workpiece is supported and control means, coupled with said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism, for controlling the operation of said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism such that, for each cycle of travel to seize a component and place a seized component on said printed circuit board by said robotic manipulator, said component feed mechanism is positioned at a location which effectively minimizes travel distance between successive component mounting locations on said printed circuit board and including means for controlling the operation of said robotic manipulator and said component feed mechanism such that there is simultaneous translational movement of said end effector and said component feed mechanism to a location whereat a component supplied by said feed mechanism for placement on said printed circuit board is seized by said end effector and transported thereby to be placed on a prescribed component mounting location on said printed circuit board. 