A robotic hand is provided with an array of movable spring loaded fingers and an assembly opposed to the fingers. An object to be grasped by the hand is pushed by the assembly toward and into contact with the fingers. An electrical signal is produced when each finger is contacted by the object. The time intervals between various finger contacts are measured and used to calculate the distance that the object moved during those intervals. These distances provide information about the shape of the object which can be used to differentiate between objects of various shapes.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic hand for grasping an object and sensing its shape, said hand comprising: a first array of fingers; means for grasping said object against at least some of the fingers in said first array; and a first means for producing an electrical signal identifying when the object contacts each of at least some of the fingers. 2. The hand as in claim 1 wherein said means for producing an electrical signal comprises a plurality of electrical switches, each being connected to a different finger. 3. The hand as in claim 1 wherein said object grasping means comprises: an assembly opposed to said first array of fingers; and drive means for moving said assembly toward to said first array of fingers. 4. The hand as in claim 3, wherein said assembly comprises: a second array of fingers; and a second means for producing an electrical signal identifying when the object contacts each of at least some of the fingers in the second array. 5. The hand as in claim 4 wherein each of said first and second means for producing an electrical signal comprises a plurality of electrical switches, each associated with a different finger in said first and second arrays of fingers. 6. The hand in claim 3 wherein the drive means moves said assembly at a substantially constant velocity. 7. A system for determining the shape of an object comprising: a plurality of fingers arranged in a first array; means for grasping said object against at least some of the fingers in said first array; a first means for producing an electrical signal identifying when the object contacts each of at least some of the fingers in said first array; and means responsive to said electrical signal for determining the shape of the object. 8. The hand as in claim 7 wherein said object grasping means comprises: an assembly opposed to said first array of fingers for contacting the object; and a drive means for moving said assembly toward said first array of fingers. 9. The system as in claim 8 wherein said drive means moves said assembly at a constant velocity; and wherein said shape determining means comprises: first time measuring means for providing an output signal indicating the time periods between when the object contacts the first of the fingers to when each other finger is contacted by the object, if such other fingers are contacted; and means for calculating the distance the object was moved between contacting various fingers, said calculation being based on the output signal from said time measuring means and the velocity at which the object was moved. 10. The system as in claim 9 further comprising: second time measuring means for providing another output signal indicating the time period between when said drive means begins moving said assembly toward said array of fingers to when the object contacts the first of the fingers; and means responsive to said second time measuring means for determining the distance the object moved during the period measured by said second time measuring means. 11. A system for determining the shape of an object comprising: a plurality of fingers arranged in an array; means for moving at least some of the fingers in said array and the object into contact with each other; a first means for producing an electrical signal identifying when the object contacts each of at least some of the fingers in said array; and means responsive to said electrical signal for determining the shape of the object. 12. The system as in claim 11 wherein moving means moves said assembly at a constant velocity; and wherein said shape determining means comprises: first time measuring means for providing an output signal indicating the time periods between when the object contacts the first of the fingers to when each other finger is contacted by the object, if such other fingers are contacted; and means for calculating the distance the object was moved between contacting various fingers, said calculation being based on the output signal from said time measuring means and the velocity at which the object was moved. 