Leak detector arrangement for the detection of small openings in car bodies or other enclosures or containers which may permit undesired passage of water, fumes, or other fluids in which phase coded or linearly frequency modulated sound waves are directed towards potential leak areas. The portion of these waves which pass through the leak openings is received, and these signals are processed so as to discriminate these leak signals from other sound waves normally entering the receiver from other parts or from other sources. The discriminated signals are compared with a threshold so as to determine the absence or presence of a leak.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting regions of imperfect sealing along seams formed by overlapping sheet materials that would allow gas or liquid penetration, comprising the steps of: generating a modulation code; generating ultrasonic energy; modulating said energy by said modulation code; illuminating one side of a reference seam to be inspected with the modulated ultrasonic energy; transporting a microphone on the opposite side of said reference seam by a robotic positioner; processing the output signal of said microphone to enhance the signal to noise ratio; detecting singularities in said signal; recording said singularities as reference singularities; repeating the steps of illuminating, transporting, processing and detecting on a seam similar to said reference seam; comparing said detected singularities with said recorded reference singularities; and declaring as imperfect any region containing a new singularity or significantly larger singularity. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said modulation code is a pseudo-random code. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said step of modulating said energy comprises phase modulation. 4. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the microphone output signal processing step comprises: hetrodyning said signal to baseband and producing a baseband signal and cross-correlating said baseband signal with said modulation code. 5. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the microphone output signal processing step comprises: hetrodyning said signal to baseband, forming an in-phase and quadrature signal component; cross-correlating said signals with said modulation code; and vectorily combining the cross-correlation output signals. 6. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said step of detecting singularities comprises: determining an average noise level in said signal for a given distance from a source of modulated sonic energy; determining a distance interval at which said signal has a level exceeding the level of said signal at adjacent closer and further distance; subtracting the smaller signal level of said adjacent closer and further distances from the signal level of said distance interval and forming a difference level from said subtracting step; and declaring a singularity if said difference level exceeds a predetermined multiple of said average noise level and a predetermined threshold level. 7. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein said singularity detection occurs at discrete distance intervals and said comparing step comprises: testing in a first test if a reference singulatity with an amplitude of half or more of the amplitude of a detected singularity is at the same distance; repeating in a second test said first test at one said discrete distance interval shorter distance if said first test fails; repeating in a third test said first test at one said discrete distance interval greater distance than said detected singularity if said first and second tests fail; declaring a leak candidate at said detected distance if all said three tests fail; repeating for all detected singularities; and declaring a new singularity if a specified number of leak candidates are declared out of a predetermined number of statistically independent measurements at a common distance. 8. An arrangement for detecting regions of imperfect sealing along seams formed by overlapping sheet materials that would allow gas or liquid penetration comprising: means for generating a pseudo random modulation waveform; means for generating a carrier signal; means for modulating said carrier signal by said modulation waveform; transducer means for generating ultrasonic energy by said modulated carrier signal; means for directing said ultrasonic energy toward one side of a seam to be investigated; robotic positioner means; sonic energy detecting means transported on the opposite side of said seam by said robitic positioner means; signal processing means for enhancing the signal to noise ratio of a signal from said detecting means; computation means for detecting and recording a reference signal pattern; computation means for comparing a detected signal with said reference pattern to declare singularities; and storage means for recording said robotic positioner means position and said singularities. 9. An arrangement as defined in claim 8, wherein said modulating said carrier signal comprises phase-encoding. 10. An arrangement as defined in claim 8, wherein said signal processing means comprises: an amplifier; a bandpass filter; mixing means for hetrodyning signals derived from said detecting means to baseband; and means for cross correlating said baseband signal with said modulation waveform. 11. An arrangement as defined in claim 10, wherein said mixing means provides an in-phase and quadrature component of said baseband signals; means for cross-correlating said in-phase and said quadrature components with said modulation waveform; and means for vectorily combining outputs of said cross-correlating means. 12. A method for detecting regions of imperfect sealing along seams formed at the juncture of two materials that would allow gas or liquid penetration comprising the steps of: generating a periodic modulation waveform with specified period; providing a source of acoustic energy; frequency modulating said acoustic energy by said modulation waveform; illuminating one side of a reference seam with said modulated acoustic energy; transporting an acoustic sensor along the opposite side of said seam; multiplying the signal output of said acoustic sensor by a signal proportional to said modulated acoustic energy; filtering the signal generated by multiplying to attenuate frequencies greater than a predetermined value; recording said filtered signal to provide a reference record; repeating the illuminating, transporting, multiplying filtering and recording steps on a seam to be inspected to provide an inspection record; and declaring leaks at locations where said inspection record signal is greater than said reference record signal by a designated amount. 13. A method as defined in claim 12, wherein said frequency modulating step comprises a sawtooth. 14. A method as defined in claim 12, wherein said transporting step is carried out by a robotic positioner. 15. A method as defined in claim 13, wherein a predetermined amount of frequency deviation is used for causing the signal generated by multiplying to be greater than a predetermined frequency for a given distance traveled by said acoustic energy from said acoustic source to said acoustic sensor. 