A method for molding optical waveguides (600) wherein one or more optical cores (230) are molded first with an attached support structure (206). A unitary cladding layer (601) is then molded around the cores (230) and the support structure (206) is removed to provide optical inlet/outlets to the cores (230). The ends of the cores (605) where the support structure (206) is removed may require subsequent polishing.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for making a molded waveguide comprising the steps of: molding a first support apparatus, a second support apparatus, and a core region simultaneously, the core region attaches to and extends between the first support apparatus and the second support apparatus; and molding a unitary cladding region surrounding the core region, thereby making a molded waveguide. 2. A method for making a molded waveguide as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of: removing at least the first support apparatus from the core region of the waveguide, thereby separating the at least first support apparatus from the core region of the waveguide and generating a separated region on the waveguide. 3. A method for making a molded waveguide as claimed in claim 2 further comprising the step of: polishing the separated region on the waveguide, thereby generating an optical surface at the separated region on the waveguide. 4. A method for making a molded waveguide as claimed in claim 1 wherein the step of molding a first support apparatus, a second support apparatus, and a core region is achieved by using a molding compound selected from one of the following materials: a polymer material, a plastic material, a polyimide material, or an epoxy material. 5. A method for making a molded waveguide as claimed in claim 1 wherein the sep of molding a unitary cladding region surrounding the core region is achieved by using a molding compound selected from one of the following materials: a polymer material, a plastic material, a polyimide material, or an epoxy material. 6. A method for making a molded waveguide as claimed in claim 1 further including the step of molding an alignment guided into the unitary cladding region. 7. A method for making a molded waveguide comprising the steps of: molding a first optical portion having a plurality of core regions, a first support structure, and a second support structure; wherein the plurality of core regions are attached to and extend between the first support structure and the second support structure, thereby holding the plurality of core regions; molding a second unitary optical portion that overmolds the plurality of core regions with the second unitary optical portion while leaving portions of the support structure exposed, thereby generating a unitary cladding region that surrounds the plurality of core regions; and detaching at least the first support structure from the plurality of core regions making detached areas on the plurality of core regions, thereby generating a molded optical waveguide. 8. A method for making a molded waveguide as claimed in claim 7 further comprising the step of: polishing the detached areas on the plurality of core regions, thereby generating an optical surface at the detached areas on the plurality of core regions of the molded optical waveguide. 9. A method for making a molded waveguide as claimed in claim 7 wherein the plurality of core regions have an optical refraction greater than the cladding region. 10. A molded optical waveguide comprising: a molded first optical portion having a plurality of molded core regions, the plurality of molded core regions each having a first end and a second end that are formed in a single molding step; and a molded unitary optical portion that surrounds the plurality of molded core regions, wherein the first end and the second end of the plurality of molded core regions is exposed from the molded unitary optical portion, where the plurality of molded core regions are clad by the unitary optical portion that surrounds the plurality of molded core regions. 11. The molded optical waveguide as claimed in claim 10 further including an alignment guide molded into the molded unitary optical portion. 12. The molded optical waveguide as claimed in claim 10 wherein the refractive index of the first optical portion is at least 0.01 greater than the refractive index of the molded unitary optical portion. 13. The molded optical waveguide as claimed in claim 10 wherein the molded first optical portion is made from selecting a material from one of the following: a polymer material, a plastic material, a polyimide material, or an epoxy material. 14. The molded optical waveguide as claimed in claim 10 wherein the molded unitary optical portion is made from selecting a material from one of the following: a polymer material, a plastic material, a polyimide material, or an epoxy material. 15. An optical electronic module comprising: an interconnect board having standard electronic components with an output pad and output leads; a molded optical waveguide including a molded core region surrounded by a unitary cladding region, and an optical component with a working portion, the optical component being mechanically and electrically connected to the molded optical waveguide such that the working portion of the optical component is aligned to the core region of the molded optical waveguide which is mounted to the interconnect board; and means for electrically connecting the output pad of the standard electronic components to the optical component, thereby interconnecting the standard electronic components to the optical component. 16. An optical electronic module as claimed in claim 15 wherein the means for connecting the output pad to the optical component is achieved by wire bonding. 17. An optical electronic module as claimed in claim 15 wherein the optical component is a phototransmitter. 18. An optical electronic module as claimed in claim 15 wherein the optical component is a photodetector. 19. An optical electronic module as claimed in claim 15 further comprising an alignment guided molded into the molded unitary optical portion. 