An electrode tip dresser which is comprised of a pair of interlocking cutter blades. A rotatable holder is provided for assisting in securing the blades to each other. A clamping mechanism is provided to releasably secure both the blades and the rotatable holder in such a manner that they may be driven by a power source. The blades, when interlocked, expose two cutting and two burnishing edges on each side of the holder and blade assembly. The clamping mechanism is designed to lock the holder and blade assembly in place for rotation by employing a locking cam clamp which is engaged when a toggle is overthrown.
Claims We claim: 1. An electrode tip dresser comprising a pair of interlocking cutter blades, a rotatable holder for securing said blades, and a clamping means for releasably securing both said blades and said rotatable holder, said blades having opposed ends and each of said blades having a cutting edge on one of the ends and a burnishing edge on the other end. 2. The tip dresser of claim 1, wherein said cutter blades are notched and said notches face each other in mating, interlocking relationship such that a cross-shaped pair of cutter blades is formed. 3. The tip dresser of claim 1, wherein said blades have sides and further wherein said rotatable holder is substantially cylindrical and interiorly grooved to receive the sides of the cutter blades. 4. An electrode tip dresser comprising a pair of interlocking cutter blades, a rotatable holder for securing said blades, and a clamping means for releasably securing both said blades and said rotatable holder, wherein each of the blades comprising the pair of interlocking blades has one cutting end and one burnishing end and wherein the cutting end of one blade is juxtaposed to the burnishing end of the other blade. 5. An electrode tip dresser comprising a pair of interlocking cutter blades, a rotatable holder for securing said blades, and a clamping means for releasably securing both said blades and said rotatable holder, wherein said clamping means comprises a toggle mechanism defining an overthrow, locking cam clamp. 6. An electrode tip dresser comprising a pair of interlocking cutter blades, a rotatable holder for securing said blades, and a clamping means for releasably securing both said blades and said rotatable holder wherein said blades have sides and wherein said rotatable holder is substantially cylindrical and interiorly grooved to receive the sides of the cutter blades and further wherein said holder is comprised of a multiplicity of sections, said sections releasably securing said blades and being releasably secured to each other by a ring. 7. A two-sided cutter blade assembly comprising a pair of interlocking blades for dressing electrode tips, said blades, when interlocked, exposing two cutting and two burnishing edges on each side of said assembly. 8. A notched, double-sided cutter blade for dressing electrode tips comprising at least two cutting edges on one side of said blade and at least two polishing edges on the other side. 9. The cutter blade of claim 8, wherein said blade is adapted for rotation about a central axis bisecting said blade from the cutting side to the burnishing side and further wherein said blade is centrally notched about the axis of rotation. 10. The cutter blade of claim 9, wherein said blade is notched transverse to the axis. 