An elongate main body section of the manipulator has its opposite ends respectively connected to a base section and an object support section. The main body section consists of elongate flexible rod members extending in generally parallel spaced relationship to each other and to the central axis of such section. The lower end portions of the rods are driven by drive mechanisms within the base section to selectively cause the main body section to undergo extension/retraction, bending and/or twisting movement in desired directions. The rod members may be resiliently flexible throughout their entire extent, or may be comprised of rigid sections interconnected by elastomeric joints. In one embodiment the drive mechanisms imparts rotation to the lower end portion of each rod member to produce twisting of the main body section, while in another embodiment axial movement imparted to the rods is reacted by an object support section having relatively moveable components to produce the twisting movement.
Claims I claim: 1. An object manipulator for selectively positioning an object, comprising: base means; object support means for supporting the object to be positioned; elongate flexible main body means connected adjacent one end thereof to said base means and adjacent its opposite end to said support means for undergoing selected multidirectional bending and twisting movements effective to vary the position of said support means relative to said base means; said elongate body means having a longitudinal axis and including at least three resilient flexure members spaced from and about said axis and extending in generally parallel relationship thereto; and drive means connected to said flexure members for imparting thereto motions causing said multidirectional bending and twisting movements of said elongate body means, said drive means including means for applying axial compressive-type forces of substantial magnitude upon said flexure members, said flexure members being rods adapted for and capable of transmission of said compressive forces from said one end to said other end thereof. 2. A manipulator as in claim 1, wherein said drive means is located and connected to said flexure members adjacent said base means. 3. A manipulator as in claim 2, wherein said drive means includes a piston and cylinder assembly. 4. A manipulator as in claim 1, wherein there are four of said flexure elements spaced at intervals of approximately 90.degree. about said axis of said elongate member. 5. A manipulator as in claim 1, wherein said flexure members converge toward said axis of said elongate means in the direction toward the end thereof connected to said support means. 6. An object manipulator for selectively positioning an object, comprising: base means; object support means for supporting the object to be positioned; elongate flexible main body means connected adjacent one end thereof to said base means and adjacent its opposite end to said support means for undergoing selected multidirectional bending and twisting movements effective to vary the position of said support means relative to said base; said elongate body means having a longitudinal axis and including resilient flexure members spaced about said axis and having respective longitudinal axes extending in generally parallel relationship to said axis of said elongate body means; and drive means connected to said flexure members for imparting thereto motions causing said multidirectional bending and twisting movements of said elongate body means, said drive means including means for selectively rotating said flexure members about the respective longitudinal axes thereof. 7. A manipulator as in claim 6, wherein said drive means includes means for imparting axial movements to said flexure members. 8. A manipulator as in claim 6, wherein said flexure members are resiliently flexible along substantially their entire lengths. 9. A manipulator as in claim 6, wherein said flexure members each include substantially rigid sections, and resilient elastomeric joint means interconnecting said sections for permitting bending of said members while resiliently biasing said sections thereof toward preselected positions relative to each other. 10. An object manipulator for selectively positioning an object, comprising: base means; object support means for supporting the object to be positioned; elongate flexible main body means connected adjacent one end thereof to said base means and adjacent its opposite end to said support means for undergoing selected multidirectional bending and twisting movements effective to vary the position of said support means relative to said base; said elongate body means having a longitudinal axis and including resilient flexure members spaced about said axis and extending in generally parallel relationship thereto, said object support means including a support member having first and second sections interconnected for pivotal movement relative to each other and rotative movement with each other in response to axial movement of said flexure members; and drive means connected to said flexure members for imparting thereto motions causing said multidirectional bending and twisting movements of said elongate body means. 11. A manipulator as in claim 10, wherein said support member includes shaft means interconnecting said sections thereof for said relative pivotal movement, and wherein at least one of said flexure members is connected to one of said sections of said support member and at least a second one of said flexure members is connected to the other of said support member sections. 12. A manipulator as in claim 10, wherein said object support means further includes a second support member, and means mounting said second support member in a substantially stable orientation upon said first mentioned support member for rotative movement in unison with said first support member. 13. An object manipulator for selectively positioning an object, comprising: base means; object support means for supporting the object to be positioned; elongate flexible main body means connected adjacent one end thereof to said base means and adjacent its opposite end to said support means for undergoing selected multidirectional bending and twisting movements effective to vary the position of said support means relative to said base; said elongate body means having a longitudinal axis and including resilient flexure members spaced about said axis and extending in generally parallel relationship thereto; and drive means connected to said flexure members for imparting thereto motions causing said multidirectional bending and twisting movements of said elongate body means, said drive means being located and connected to said flexure members adjacent said base means, said drive means including a piston and cylinder assembly and means for rotating said assembly about its longitudinal axis. 14. A manipulator as in claim 13, wherein said drive means includes a plurality of piston and cylinder assemblies drivably connected to respective ones of said flexure members. 15. A manipulator as in claim 14, including means mounting the cylinder component of each of said assemblies for rotative movement about the longitudinal axis of said assembly, said drive means further including means for imparting rotative movement to said cylinder component of each of said assemblies. 16. An object manipulator for use as a robot arm or the like, comprising: base means; object support means for supporting an object to be positioned; elongate flexible main body means connected adjacent one end thereof to said base means and adjacent its opposite end to said support means, for undergoing controlled multidirectional movements, effective to vary the position of said support means relative to said base means, of any desired type in the group consisting of the extension, retraction, bending and twisting types; said main body means having a longitudinal axis and including at least three elongate resilient flexure members spaced equally from each other about said axis and extending in generally parallel relationship thereto, said main body undergoing translatory movement generally parallel to said axis during said extension and retraction thereof; said flexure members being rods adapted for and capable of transmission of axial compressive-type loads of substantial magnitude applied thereto during use of the manipulator, and having first end portions adjacent said base means; drive means carried by said base means and operatively connected to said first end portions of said flexure members for, when actuated, imparting to said flexure members selected motions causing movement of said main body elongate means of any desired one of said types. 17. An object manipulator for use as a robot arm or the like, comprising: base means; object support means; elongate means extending between and interconnecting said base and support means, said elongate means having a central axis and including a plurality of elongate resilient flexure members spaced from each other about said axis and extending in generally parallel relationship thereto; drive means connected to said flexure members for axially moving some of said members relative to other of said members; reacting means associated with said support means for so reacting to forces applied thereto by said relative axial movement of said flexure members as to produce a moment causing rotation of said support means and twisting of said elongate means about said axis of said elongate means, said reacting means including a support member having first and second sections, and pivot means pivotally interconnecting said sections for pivotal movement thereof in opposite directions relative to each other. 18. A manipulator as in claim 17, and further including resilient flexible means interconnecting said flexure members intermediate the length thereof for assisting in maintaining said members in said substantially parallel relationship. 