Apparatus for providing a continuous supply of workpieces to a pickup station comprises a frame having a magazine in the top thereof, the workpieces being packaged in open-ended trays stacked in the magazine. A pickup plate assembly pivots downward from a position paralleling the bottom of the magazine, where it picks up a tray, to an inclined delivery position aligned with the inclined surface of a delivery station. Holding means are released so the connectors slide from the open end of the tray until it is empty. Thereafter the pickup plate pivots further downward and the empty tray is ejected.
Claims We claim: 1. Apparatus for providing a continuous supply of workpieces to a pickup station, said workpieces being packaged in trays, each tray having a top surface bounded by a first end and an opposed open second end, said workpieces being in side-by-side rows on said top surface, each row having a plurality of workpieces aligned end-to-end, said apparatus comprising: a frame having opposed first and second vertical ends; a magazine in the top of said frame where trays are stacked, each tray being generally horizontal, the first end of each tray being proximate the first vertical end of said frame, the open second end of each tray being proximate vertical second end of said frame, a pickup plate assembly having a first end and an opposed second end, said first end being pivoted at said first end of said frame proximate the bottom of said magazine, said assembly being pivotable from a generally horizontal pickup position paralleling the bottom of said magazine to an inclined delivery position; a delivery station having a generally planar inclined surface which is substantially coplanar with the top surface of a tray and substantially contiguous with the open second end thereof when said pickup plate is in the inclined delivery position with a tray thereon. 2. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said pickup plate assembly comprises a pickup plate and a generally parallel base plate, said base plate being pivoted in said first end of said frame, said pickup plate being movable vertically from a lower to an upper position relative to said base plate, when said assembly is horizontal, to lift the stack of trays in said magazine, said frame having mounted therein release means which hold said stack before lifting, said release means being positioned to hold only the trays above the lowest tray in the stack when said pickup plate is in the lower position. 3. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said pickup plate assembly comprises a pickup plate profiled to receive a tray therein, said tray having a recessed bottom surface which receives said pickup plate therein. 4. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said pickup plate assembly comprises releasable holding means toward the second end thereof, said holding means being effective to prevent downward movement of said workpieces when said assembly is pivoted downward from the horizontal position. 5. Apparatus as in claim 1 or claim 4 further comprising releasable spring-loaded down-down means associated with said frame, said means being effective to prevent downward movement of said workpieces when said assembly is in the inclined delivery position with a tray thereon. 6. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said delivery station is adapted to receive workpieces from a tray having channels therein, said channels being profiled to carry respective rows of card edge electrical connectors or the like end-to-end therein, said connectors or the like each having two rows of parallel leads extending into the respective channel, said inclined surface having rows of channels therein separated by ridges, said ridges aligning with channels in the tray when the assembly is in the delivery position with a tray thereon, whereby electrical connectors are received on the ridges with one row of leads extending into each adjacent channel in the inclined surface. 7. Apparatus as in claim 6 wherein said ridges have respective fingers extending toward the channels in the tray when the assembly is in the inclined delivery position. 8. Apparatus as in claim 7 wherein said assembly further comprises means for moving said tray toward said inclined surface when the assembly is in the delivery position, whereby the tray may be moved toward the inclined surface until the fingers are received in respective channels in the tray. 9. Apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said pickup plate assembly is pivotable from the inclined delivery position further downward from the pickup position to a dumping position whereby an empty tray may be dumped. 