A system for use in preparing a dental prosthesis comprises a signal generator for generating an electrical signal encoding geometric specifications of a dental prosthesis, the specifications including dimensions and shape of a tooth preparation at a dental site at which the prosthesis is to be affixed and configuration of the prosthesis. The system further comprises a robot mechanism for placing a first mold component and a second mold component, selected in accordance with the electrical signal, in predetermined relative positions to form a mold cavity, the first mold component corresponding in shape and dimensions to the tooth preparation. The system also comprises a filling device, a furnace and a computer. The filling device serves to introduce into the mold cavity a quantity of a fluidic solidifiable dental material such as a liquid or liquifiable precious metal or alloy or composite material. The metal or alloy may be in any of a number of equivalent forms, for example, powder, pellets or ingots. The robot mechanism and the filling device are at least partially disposed inside the furnace. The computer is operatively connected to the robot mechanism and the filling device for controlling and sequencing the operation thereof.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for use in preparing dental appliances, comprising the steps of: automatically receiving a plurality of electrical signals encoding geometric specifications of a plurality of dental prostheses, said specifications including dimensions and shape of tooth preparations at dental sites at which said prostheses are to be affixed and configuration of said prostheses; automatically calculating from said geometric specifications additional geometric specifications of a common nearest net shape from which all of said plurality of dental prostheses may be machined; upon completing said step of calculating, providing a pair of mold components to produce, in cooperation with one another, a mold cavity having dimensions and configuration corresponding at least substantially to dimensions and configuration of said common nearest net shape; operating a robotic device to automatically place said first mold component and said second mold component in predetermined relative positions to form said mold cavity; automatically introducing into said mold cavity a quantity of a fluidic solidifiable dental material; and removing a prosthesis form from said mold cavity upon solidification of the dental material with which said mold cavity is filled. 2. The method defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of shipping said prosthesis form to a user for machining of said prosthesis form by said user. 3. The method defined in claim 2, further comprising the step of conveying to said user an electronic codification of the dimensions and configuration of said prosthesis form. 4. The method defined in claim 2, further comprising the step of removably attaching said prosthesis form to a support having marking means for providing a distance reference for said prosthesis form, said support being shipped to said user with said prosthesis form. 5. The method defined in claim 4 wherein said support is provided with alignment means for guiding said support molded form into a predetermined relationship with a machining apparatus. 