A system and method for evaluating performance of a microphone for long-distance speech recognition, which enables a robot to receive and respond to voices. A robot, which includes a network robot, must correctly recognize speech in order to recognize the user and to perceive its surroundings, objective evaluation criteria are required for choosing a microphone to be used in the robot. The methods include measuring a degree of attenuation of the voice, measuring a degree of distortion of the voice, and simultaneously measuring the degree of attenuation of the voice and the degree of distortion of the voice. A standard for the choice of a microphone, which can be digitalized, for a speech recognition function of a robot, permits choice of a microphone which has good sensitivity and can pick up voices without distortion when used at a large distance.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for evaluating performance of a microphone for long-distance speech recognition in a robot, the system comprising: a reference voice database for storing a voice signal required for performance evaluation of at least two microphones; a measurement value calculator for calculating both attenuation and distortion of the input voice signal at the same time, when the voice signal from the reference voice database is input to a reference microphone and a target microphone from among the at least two microphones; a comparator for comparing a value calculated by the measurement value calculator with a reference value; and a microphone chooser for determining whether to choose the target microphone according to a result of the comparison; wherein a respective preamplifier for each of the microphones is adjusted to have a same value of gain so that an evaluation measure of performance of all the microphones does not depend on a variance in gain of a particular preamplifier, and wherein the microphones are arranged at different distances from the reference microphone; and a reference voice DB generator for generating the reference voice database by determining a distance from a speaker to a reference microphone and the target microphone, and for recording a voice signal according to each microphone. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the measurement value calculator calculates attenuation of the voice signal by means of any one of an averaged signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of an entire voice signal input to the microphone and a segmental SNR of the voice signal. 3. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the measurement value calculator calculates attenuation of the voice signal by means of a voice attenuation ratio between the reference microphone and the target microphone. 4. A system for evaluating performance of a microphone for long-distance speech recognition in a robot, the system comprising: a reference voice database for storing a voice signal required for performance evaluation of at least two microphones; a measurement value calculator for measuring and digitalizing at least one of attenuation and distortion of the input voice signal according to a selected performance evaluation criterion, when the voice signal from the reference voice database is input to a reference microphone and a target microphone from among the at least two microphones; a comparator for comparing a measurement result digitalized by the measurement value calculator with a reference value; and a microphone chooser for determining whether to choose the target microphone according to a result of the comparison; wherein the measurement value calculator measures and digitalizes attenuation of the voice signal by means of a voice attenuation ratio between the reference microphone and the target microphone, and wherein the voice attenuation ratio comprises a Microphone-to-Microphone Ratio (MMR) calculated by: .ident..times..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..times..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function. ##EQU00013## wherein T.sub.s represents a voice section, T.sub.n represents a noise section, s.sub.mic1(t) represents a voice signal at the reference microphone, and s.sub.mic2(t) represents a voice signal at a comparative microphone. 5. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the measurement value calculator calculates distortion of the voice signal by means of any one of a log area ratio, a log-likelihood ratio measure, and a cepstral distance. 6. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the measurement value calculator calculates distortion of the voice signal by means of any one among an Itakura-Saito distortion measure, a weighted spectral slope measure, and a Perceptual Evaluation of Speech Quality. 7. A system for evaluating performance of a microphone for long-distance speech recognition in a robot, the system comprising: a reference voice database for storing a voice signal required for performance evaluation of at least two microphones; a measurement value calculator for calculating a voice attenuation ratio between the microphones in order to measure attenuation of the input voice signal, when the voice signal from the reference voice database is input to a reference microphone and a target microphone from among the at least two microphones; and a microphone chooser for determining whether to choose the target microphone, according to a result of comparison between a result calculated by the measurement value calculator and a reference value; wherein the measurement value calculator calculates energy of a voice section and energy of a noise section for each of the reference and target microphones, divides a difference between the voice-section energy and noise-section energy of the reference microphone by a difference between the voice-section energy and noise-section energy of the target microphone, multiplies a result value of the division by a value which has been obtained by dividing the noise-section energy of the target microphone by the noise-section energy of the reference microphone in order to compensate for a difference between preamplifier gains, and takes a logarithm of a result value of the multiplication, thereby obtaining the voice attenuation ratio between. 8. The system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the microphone chooser determines choosing the target microphone when the result calculated by the measurement value calculator is less than the reference value. 9. A method for evaluating performance of a microphone for long-distance speech recognition in a robot, the method comprising the steps of: inputting a voice signal required for performance evaluation to a reference microphone and a target microphone from among at least two microphones; calculating a voice attenuation ratio between the microphones in order to measure attenuation of the input voice signal when the voice signal is input; comparing the calculated voice attenuation ratio between the reference microphone and target microphone with a reference value; and determining whether to choose the target microphone according to a result of the comparison; wherein the voice attenuation ratio comprises a Microphone-to-Microphone Ratio (MMR) between the microphones which is calculated by: .ident..times..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..times..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function. ##EQU00014## wherein T.sub.s represents a voice section, T.sub.n represents a noise section, s.sub.mic1(t) represents a voice signal at the reference microphone, and s.sub.mic2(t) represents a voice signal at a comparative microphone. 10. The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein, in the step of determining whether to choose the target microphone, the target microphone is finally determined to be chosen when the calculated voice attenuation ratio between the microphones is less than the reference value. 11. The method according to claim 9, wherein the reference value is retrieved from a reference voice database (DB). 12. The method according to claim 9, wherein the reference value is determined by generating a reference voice database by determining a distance from a speaker to a reference microphone and the target microphone, and for recording a voice signal according to each microphone. 13. A method for evaluating performance of a microphone for long-distance speech recognition in a robot, the method comprising the steps of: storing a voice signal required for performance evaluation of at least two microphones; inputting the voice signal to a reference microphone and a target microphone among the at least two microphones; calculating both attenuation and distortion of the voice signal at the same time when the voice signal is input; comparing the calculated result with a reference value; and determining whether to choose the target microphone according to a result of the comparison; and wherein attenuation of the voice signal is calculated by using a voice attenuation ratio between the reference microphone and the target microphone; wherein a respective preamplifier for each of the microphones is adjusted to have a same value of gain so that an evaluation measure of performance of all the microphones does not depend on a variance in gain of a particular preamplifier and wherein the microphones are arranged at different distances from the reference microphone; and wherein the reference value is determined by generating a reference voice database by determining a distance from a speaker to the reference microphone and the target microphone, and for recording a voice signal according to each microphone. 14. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the voice attenuation ratio comprises a Microphone-to-Microphone Ratio (MMR) which is calculated by: .ident..times..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..times..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function..di-elect cons..times..times..times..function. ##EQU00015## wherein T.sub.s represents a voice section, T.sub.n represents a noise section, s.sub.mic1(t) represents a voice signal at the reference microphone, and s.sub.mic2(t) represents a voice signal at a comparative microphone. 15. The method according to claim 13, wherein the reference value is retrieved from a reference voice database (DB). 