A pre-tensioned shape memory actuator for providing remote actuation at relatively high loads. The actuator utilizes a two-way shape memory alloy which is pre-tensioned to a pre-tensioned position, then partially compressed to a position intermediate its original position and the pre-tensioned position so as to allow the actuator unit to then fore-shorten back to the original position when heated, and to expand back to the intermediate position when again allowed to cool. The alloy is a part of a clamping device which applies compressive force to a work object at the intermediate position under normal temperatures and releases the compressive force when heated. Upon cooling, the cycle is completed as the memory alloy reverts to the intermediate position and once again applies the compressive force to the work object.
Claims I claim: 1. A shape memory actuator capable of reliable functioning after long periods of inactivity for providing remote actuation at relatively high loads to clamping mecahnisms comprising a two-way shape memory alloy formed into an actuator having an original position, said alloy being pre-tensioned to a pre-tensioned position, means for partially compressing said alloy actuator to a position intermediate said original position and said pre-tensioned position whereby said alloy actuator fore-shortens back to its original position when heated and expands back to the intermediate position when cooled. 2. An actuator in accordance with claim 1 wherein the alloy is selected from the group consisting of CuZnAl and NiTi. 3. An actuator in accordance with claim 2 wherein the alloy possesses the following properties: 4. An actuator in accordance with claim 2 wherein the alloy possesses the following properties: 5. A clamping device comprising a shape memory actuator capable of reliable functioning after long periods of inactivity for providing remote actuation at relatively high loads to mechanisms, a two-way shape memory alloy formed into said actuator and having an original position, said alloy being pre-tensioned to a pre-tensioned position, means for partially compressing said alloy actuator to a position intermediate said original position and said pre-tensioned position whereby said alloy actuator fore-shortens back to its original position when heated and expands back to the intermediate position when cooled, means for applying force to a work object, said actuator being in contact with the applying means whereby said actuator supplies the force to said applying means at its intermediate position under normal temperatures and releases the force to said applying means when heated, the force being supplied again when said actuator is cooled and reverts to its intermediate position. 6. A clamping device in accordance with claim 5 wherein the alloy is selected from the group consisting of CuZnAl and NiTi. 7. A clamping device in accordance with claim 6 wherein the alloy possesses the following properties: 8. A clamping device in accordance with claim 6 wherein the alloy possesses the following properties: 9. A clamping device in accordance with claim 5 wherein the force applying means constitutes a pair of spaced apart platens, said actuator being in contact with at least one of said platens. 10. The method of making a two-way shape memory alloy article comprising the steps of fabricating the article from a shape memory alloy having a predetermined initial length l.sub.o, stretching the article to a length l.sub.s greater than its initial length l.sub.o, compressing the article to a length l.sub.c, heating the article until its length returns to the initial length l.sub.o, and cooling the article until its length expands to the compressed length l.sub.c. 11. The method of applying a compressive force to a work object comprising the steps of utilizing as part of a clamping device a two-way shape memory alloy actuator, pre-tensioning said alloy actuator to a pre-tensioned position, partially compressing said actuator to a position intermediate its original position and said pre-tensioned position, heating said actuator and allowing said actuator to fore-shorten back to its original position, cooling said actuator to cause it to expand again to its intermediate position, arranging said actuator in the clamping device in order to apply compressive forces to the work object under normal temperatures, heating the actuator to release the compressive forces, and cooling the actuator to again apply the compressive forces to the work object. 12. The method of treating an alloy in order to impart to its pretensioned properties comprising the steps of fabricating an article from a shape memory alloy having a predetermined initial length l.sub.o, stretching the article to a length l.sub.s greater than its initial length l.sub.o, compressing the article to a length l.sub.c, heating the article until its length returns to the initial length l.sub.o, and cooling the article until its length expands to the compressed length l.sub.c. 13. A method as in one of the claims 10-12 wherein the alloy is in the shape of a tube. 14. A method as in one of the claims 10-12 wherein the alloy is selected from the group consisting of CuZnAl and NiTi. 15. A method as in one of the claim 10-12 wherein the alloy possesses the following properties: 16. A method as in one of the claims 10-12 wherein the alloy possesses the following properties: 