A patellar 3-D guidance tool includes a template. The template includes at least one contact surface for engaging a surface of the patella. The at least one contact surface substantially conforms with the surface associated with the patellar. At least one guide aperture directs movement of a surgical instrument, wherein the shape and/or position of the guide aperture is based, at least in part, on three or more anatomic reference points associated with the patellar.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A patient-specific surgical tool for use in surgically repairing a joint of a patient, comprising: a block having a patient-specific surface and a guide, the patient-specific surface having a shape configured to be substantially a negative of a corresponding portion of a surface of the joint, wherein the surface of the joint includes an osteophyte; and the guide being sized to accommodate a surgical tool and have a position and orientation relative to the patient-specific surface to provide a predetermined cutting or drilling path for the cutting or drilling tool that is aligned through a portion of tissue of the joint. 2. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the surgical tool is configured such that the patient-specific surface substantially does not engage a second osteophyte when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 3. The surgical tool of claim 2, wherein the patient-specific surgical tool is configured such that the patient-specific surface extends over but does not engage the second osteophyte when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 4. The surgical tool of claim 2, wherein the patient-specific surgical tool is configured such that the patient specific surface extends over but substantially does not engage the second osteophyte when the patient specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 5. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific surface substantially engages the entire osteophyte. 6. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific surface substantially engages a portion of a surface of the osteophyte. 7. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the cutting tool is a drill. 8. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the cutting tool is a saw. 9. The surgical tool of claim 1, further comprising an attachment mechanism. 10. The surgical tool of claim 9, further comprising a surgical device for use with the block and connectable to the block by the attachment mechanism. 11. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the tool is comprised of multiple components. 12. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the block containing the patient-specific surface and the guide is a single component. 13. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the block includes a plurality of pins that define the patient specific surface. 14. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific surface is a continuous surface. 15. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the surface of the joint is a femoral surface of a knee of the patient and the guide is configured to define a cutting path through a femoral surface when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding surface. 16. The surgical tool of claim 15, wherein the cutting path is configured to extend through a distal portion of a femoral condyle when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding surface portion of the joint. 17. The surgical tool of claim 15, wherein the cutting path is configured to extend through an anterior portion of a femoral condyle when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding surface portion of the joint. 18. The surgical tool of claim 15, wherein the cutting path is configured to extend through a posterior portion of a femoral condyle when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding surface portion of the joint. 19. The surgical tool of claim 15, wherein the cutting path is configured to extend through a portion of two femoral condyles when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding surface portion of the joint. 20. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the surface of the joint is a femoral surface of a knee of the patient and the guide defines a cutting path through distal portions of the femoral condyles of the joint. 21. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the surface of the joint is a tibial surface of a tibia of the patient and the guide defines a cutting path through a tibial plateau of the tibia. 22. The surgical tool of claim 21, wherein the cutting path has a predetermined sloped relative to the tibial plateau. 23. The surgical tool of claim 22, wherein the slope is between 0 and 7 degrees. 24. The surgical tool of claim 22, wherein the slope substantially matches the normal slope of the tibial plateau. 25. The surgical tool of claim 21, wherein the cutting path is substantially parallel to the tibial plateau. 26. The surgical tool of claim 21, wherein the cutting path is at a predetermined orientation relative to at least one of a mechanical axis and an anatomic axis of the tibia. 27. The surgical tool of claim 21, wherein the cutting path is at a predetermined distance relative to a cartilage surface of the tibial plateau. 28. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the joint is a knee joint and further comprising a spacer sized to fit in a space between a femoral surface and a tibial surface of the knee and to balance ligaments associated with the knee. 29. The surgical tool of claim 28, wherein the spacer is not connected to the block. 30. The surgical tool of claim 28, wherein the spacer is connected to the block. 31. The surgical tool of claim 28, further comprising an attachment mechanism allowing the spacer to be connected to the block. 32. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the joint is a knee joint and further comprising an adjustment mechanism to balance ligaments associated with the knee. 33. The surgical tool of claim 32, wherein the adjustment mechanism is not connected to the block. 34. The surgical tool of claim 33, wherein the adjustment mechanism is connected to the block. 35. The surgical tool of claim 33, further comprising an attachment mechanism allowing the adjustment mechanism to be connected to the block. 36. The surgical tool of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of guide apertures. 37. The surgical tool of claim 36, wherein the first guide aperture is configured at an angle to a second guide aperture of the plurality of guide apertures. 38. The surgical tool of claim 1, further comprising at least one stabilizer on the surface of the tool oriented to engage the joint surface when the patient-specific surface engages the cartilage surface. 39. The surgical tool of claim 38, wherein the stabilizer is selected from the group consisting of pin, peg, post, and nub. 40. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the when tool is configured to resist movement when the patient specific surface is placed against a surface of the joint. 41. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the when tool is configured to resist rotation in at least one axis when the patient specific surface is placed against a surface of the joint. 42. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the joint is one of a hip, knee, ankle, shoulder, elbow and wrist joint. 43. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the tool is configured to be oriented along a mechanical axis of the joint when the patient specific surface is placed against and aligned with the corresponding surface portion of the joint. 44. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the tool is configured to be oriented along an anatomical axis of the joint when the patient specific surface is placed against and aligned with the corresponding surface portion of the joint. 45. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the surface of the joint includes portions of at least one of a medial condyle and a lateral condyle. 46. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the surface of the joint includes portions of at least one of a medial tibial plateau and a lateral tibial plateau. 47. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the guide includes a stop to control the depth of the cutting or drilling tool. 48. The surgical tool of claim 47, wherein the stop is a drill stop. 49. The surgical tool of claim 47, wherein the stop is a blade stop. 50. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the guide includes a metal insert. 51. The surgical tool of claim 50, wherein the metal insert is a bushing. 52. The surgical tool of claim 1, further comprising an adjustment mechanism for adjusting the position of the guide relative to the joint. 53. The surgical tool of claim 52, wherein the adjustment mechanism includes at least one of a tensiometer, a spacer, a shim, a hinge device, a jack device, and a ratchet device. 54. The surgical tool of claim 53, wherein said adjustment mechanism includes adjustment means for optimizing balance of the joint. 55. The surgical tool of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific surface references but does not engage the osteophyte, when the patient specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 56. A surgical tool for use in surgically repairing a joint of a patient, comprising: a cutting block having a patient-specific surface and a guide; the patient-specific surface having a first portion has a shape that is substantially a negative of a corresponding portion of an articular surface of the joint and a second portion that is configured to substantially avoid contact with one or more osteophytes of the joint when the first portion is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface; and the guide being sized to accommodate a cutting tool and have a position and orientation relative to the patient-specific surface to provide a predetermined drilling or cutting path for the cutting tool that is aligned through a portion of tissue of the joint when the first portion is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 57. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the patient-specific surgical tool is configured such that the patient-specific surface does not engage any osteophyte when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 58. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the patient-specific surgical tool is configured such that the patient-specific surface substantially does not engage any osteophyte when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 59. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the patient-specific surgical tool is configured such that the patient-specific surface extends over but does not engage an osteophyte when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 60. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the patient-specific surgical tool is configured such that the patient-specific surface extends over but substantially does not engage an osteophyte when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 61. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the patient-specific surgical tool is configured such that the patient-specific surface extends around an edge of an osteophyte but does not engage the osteophyte when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 62. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the patient-specific surgical tool is configured such that the patient-specific surface extends around an edge of an osteophyte but substantially does not engage the osteophyte when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 63. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the cutting tool is a drill. 64. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the cutting tool is a saw. 65. The surgical tool of claim 56, further comprising an attachment mechanism. 66. The surgical tool of claim 65, further comprising a surgical device for use with the cutting block and connectable to the cutting block by the attachment mechanism. 67. The surgical tool of claim 66, wherein the tool is comprised of multiple components. 68. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the cutting block containing the patient-specific surface and the guide is defined by a single component. 69. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the cutting block includes a plurality of pins that define the patient-specific surface. 70. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the patient-specific surface is a continuous surface. 71. The surgical tool of claim 70, wherein the patient-specific surface is made of a polymer. 72. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the surface of the joint is a femoral surface of a knee of the patient and the guide is configured to define a cutting path through a femoral surface when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the surface of the joint. 73. The surgical tool of claim 72, wherein the cutting path is configured to extend through a distal portion of a femoral condyle when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the surface of the joint. 74. The surgical tool of claim 72, wherein the cutting path is configured to extend through an anterior portion of a femoral condyle when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the surface of the joint. 75. The surgical tool of claim 72, wherein the cutting path is configured to extend through a posterior portion of a femoral condyle when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the surface of the joint. 76. The surgical tool of claim 72, wherein the cutting path is configured to extend through a portion of two femoral condyles when the patient-specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the surface of the joint. 77. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the surface of the joint is a femoral surface of a knee of the patient and the guide defines a cutting path through a proximal portion of the femoral surface. 78. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the surface of the joint is a tibial surface of a tibia of the patient and the guide defines a cutting path through a tibial plateau of the tibia. 79. The surgical tool of claim 78, wherein the cutting path has a predetermined sloped relative to the tibial plateau. 80. The surgical tool of claim 79, wherein the slope is between 0 and 7 degrees. 81. The surgical tool of claim 79, wherein the slope substantially matches the normal slope of the tibial plateau. 82. The surgical tool of claim 78, wherein the cutting path is substantially parallel to the tibial plateau. 83. The surgical tool of claim 78, wherein the cutting path is at a predetermined orientation relative to at least one of a mechanical axis and an anatomic axis of the tibia. 84. The surgical tool of claim 78, wherein the cutting path is at a predetermined distance relative to a cartilage surface of the tibial plateau. 85. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the joint is a knee joint and further comprising a spacer sized to fit in a space between a femoral surface and a tibial surface of the knee and to balance ligaments associated with the knee. 86. The surgical tool of claim 85, wherein the spacer is not connected to the cutting block. 87. The surgical tool of claim 85, wherein the spacer is connected to the cutting block. 88. The surgical tool of claim 85, further comprising an attachment mechanism allowing the spacer to be connected to the cutting block. 89. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the joint is a knee joint and further comprising an adjustment mechanism to balance ligaments associated with the knee. 90. The surgical tool of claim 89, wherein the adjustment mechanism is not connected to the cutting block. 91. The surgical tool of claim 89, wherein the adjustment mechanism is connected to the cutting block. 92. The surgical tool of claim 89, further comprising an attachment mechanism allowing the adjustment mechanism to be connected to the cutting block. 93. The surgical tool of claim 56, further comprising a plurality of guide apertures. 94. The surgical tool of claim 93, wherein a first guide aperture is configured at an angle to a second guide aperture of the plurality of guide apertures. 95. The surgical tool of claim 56, further comprising at least one stabilizer on the surface of the tool oriented to engage the joint surface when the patient-specific surface engages the cartilage surface. 96. The surgical tool of claim 95, wherein the stabilizer is selected from the group consisting of pin, peg, post, and nub. 97. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the tool is configured to resist movement when the patient-specific surface is placed against the cartilage surface. 98. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the tool is configured to resist rotation in at least one axis when the patient-specific surface is placed against the cartilage surface. 99. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the joint is one of a hip, knee, ankle, shoulder, elbow and wrist joint. 100. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the tool is configured to be oriented along a mechanical axis of the joint when the patient-specific surface is placed against and aligned with the cartilage surface. 101. The surgical tool of claim 75, wherein the tool is configured to be oriented along an anatomical axis of the joint when the patient-specific surface is placed against and aligned with the cartilage surface. 102. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the surface of the joint includes portions of at least one of a medial condyle and a lateral condyle. 103. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the surface of the joint includes portions of at least one of a medial tibial plateau and a lateral tibial plateau. 104. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the guide includes a stop to control the depth of the cutting tool. 105. The surgical tool of claim 104, wherein the stop is a drill stop. 106. The surgical tool of claim 104, wherein the stop is a blade stop. 107. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the guide includes a metal insert. 108. The surgical tool of claim 107, wherein the metal insert is a bushing. 109. The surgical tool of claim 56, further comprising an adjustment mechanism for adjusting the position of the guide relative to the joint. 110. The surgical tool of claim 109, wherein the adjustment mechanism includes at least one of a tensiometer, a spacer, a shim, a hinge device, a jack device, and a ratchet device. 111. The surgical tool of claim 109, wherein said adjustment mechanism includes adjustment means for optimizing balance of the joint. 112. The surgical tool of claim 56, wherein the patient-specific surface references the one or more osteophytes when the first portion is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the articular surface. 113. A surgical tool for use in surgically repairing a joint of a patient, comprising: a cutting block having a patient-specific surface and a guide; the patient-specific surface having a first portion configured to have a shape that is substantially a negative of a cartilage surface of the joint and a second portion configured to have a shape that is substantially a negative of a cortical bone surface of the joint; the guide being sized to accommodate a surgical tool for cutting or drilling and have a position and orientation relative to the patient-specific surface to provide a predetermined cutting path for the cutting tool that is aligned through a portion of bone of the joint. 114. A surgical tool for use in surgically repairing a joint of a patient, comprising: a cutting block having a patient-specific surface and a; the patient-specific surface having a first portion configured to have a shape that is substantially a negative of a subchondral bone surface of the joint and a second portion configured to have a shape that is substantially a negative of a cortical bone surface of the joint; the guide being sized to accommodate a cutting tool and have a position and orientation relative to the patient-specific surface to provide a predetermined cutting path for the cutting tool that is aligned through a portion of tissue of the joint. 115. A surgical tool for use in surgically repairing a joint of a patient, comprising: a cutting block having a patient-specific surface and a guide; the patient-specific surface having a first portion configured to have a shape that is substantially a negative of a subchondral bone surface of the joint, a second portion configured to have a shape that is substantially a negative of a cortical bone surface of the joint, and a third portion configured to have a shape that is substantially a negative of a cartilage surface of the joint; the guide being sized to accommodate a cutting tool and have a position and orientation relative to the patient-specific surface to provide a predetermined cutting path for the cutting tool that is aligned through a portion of bone associated with the joint. 116. A surgical tool for use in surgically repairing a joint of a patient, comprising: a block having a patient-specific surface and a guide sized to accommodate a surgical tool; the patient-specific surface having at least a portion configured to have a shape that is substantially a negative of a corresponding portion of a joint surface of the patient that includes an osteophyte; the guide having a position and orientation relative to the patient-specific surface to provide a predetermined path for cutting or drilling when the patient-specific surface is placed against the joint surface of the patient such that the guide has a predetermined alignment relative to an anatomical or biomechanical axis of the patient's joint. 117. The surgical tool of claim 116, wherein the when tool is configured to resist movement when the patient-specific surface is placed against the joint surface. 118. The surgical tool of claim 116, wherein the when tool is configured to resist rotation in at least one axis when the patient-specific surface is placed against the joint surface. 119. The surgical tool of claim 116, wherein the joint surface of the patient further includes a cartilage surface. 120. The surgical tool of claim 116, wherein the joint surface of the patient further includes a bone surface. 121. The surgical tool of claim 116, wherein the joint surface of the patient further includes a subchondral bone surface. 122. The surgical tool of claim 116, wherein the joint surface of the patient further includes a cortical bone surface. 123. The surgical tool of 116, wherein the patient-specific surface references the osteophyte, when the portion of the patient specific surface is engaged and aligned with the corresponding portion of the joint surface. 