The present invention provides an end of arm tooling device (EOAT) for a robotic arm. The present invention may be adjusted to modify the gripping force exerted by the EOAT without a change of force by the actuator. The present invention also provides an EOAT which can be adjusted to handle workpieces of various dimensions and shapes.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. An adjustable workpiece centering end of arm tooling gripper adapted to be connected with a robot arm to grab a workpiece, said gripper in combination comprising: a plate having a plurality of slots; an actuator adjacent said plate having rod means extendible with respect to said plate; a plurality of mounting guides locationally adjustably respectively fitted with said slots of said plates; a quadrangular linkage member pivotally connected with each of said mounting guides and being pivotally and slotably connected with said rod means; a finger pivotally connected with each of said quadrangular linkage members whereby movement of said rod means causes said fingers to grab and locate the workpiece with respect to said rod means. 2. A gripper as described in claim 1 wherein said quadrangular linkage member, said mounting guide and said finger pivotal connections form a parallelogram. 3. An adjustable workpiece centering end of arm tooling gripper adapted to be connected with a robot arm to grab a workpiece, said gripper in combination comprising: a plate having a plurality of slots; an actuator adjacent said plate having rod means extendible with respect to said plate; a plurality of mounting guides locationally adjustably respectively fitted with said slots of said plate; a quadrangular linkage member pivotally connected with each of said mounting guides; a finger pivotally connected with each of said quadrangular linkage members; and an actuator link pivotally connected between each of said quadrangular linkage members and said rod means whereby movement of said rod means causes said fingers to grab and locate the workpiece with respect to said rod means. 4. A gripper as described in claim 3 wherein said quadrangular linkage member, said mounting guide and said finger pivotal connections form a parallelogram. 5. A gripper as described in claim 3 wherein at least one of said slots in said plate extends in a nonradial fashion with respect to said rod means. 6. A gripper as described in claim 3 wherein said finger includes a jaw plate pivotally connected with said quadrangular linkage member and a jaw adjustably mounted to said jaw plate. 7. An adjustable workpiece centering end of arm tooling gripper adapted to be connected with a robot arm to grab a workpiece, said gripper in combination comprising: a plate having a plurality of slots; an actuator adjacent said plate having a flanged rod extendible with respect to said plate; a plurality of mounting guides locationally adjustably respectively fitted with said slots of said plate by bolts; a parallel linkage member pivotally connected with each of said mounting guides; a finger including a jaw plate pivotally connected with each said parallel linkage members and a jaw adjustably mounted to said jaw plate; and an actuator link pivotally connected between each of said parallel linkage members and said flanged rod whereby movement of said rod causes said fingers to grab and locate the workpiece with respect to said rod. 8. A method of changing the gripping pressure of an adjustable workpiece centering EOAT gripper with a plate having a plurality of slots and an actuator adjacent to said plate with a rod means extendible with respect to said plate, said gripper being connected with a robot arm to grab a workpiece, said method in combination comprising: locationally adjustably respectively fitting with said slots of said plate a plurality of mounting guides; pivotally connecting to said mounting guides a quadrangular linkage member; pivotally connecting to each said quadrangular linkage members a finger; pivotally connecting with each of said quadrangular linkage members and said rod means an actuator link; and adjusting the location of said mounting guides on said plate whereby the gripping force exerted upon movement of said rod means is adjusted. 