A range imaging system, and a method for calibrating such a system are based on the principles of projective geometry. The system comprises four subsystems: (1) a laser and a cylindrical lens or vibrating mirror for producing a planar beam of light; (2) an electronic camera equipped with a lens and an appropriate interference filter; (3) an electronic circuit for height (depth) measurements and video image generation; and (4) a scanning mechanism for moving the object with respect to the light beam and the camera so as to scan an area of the object surface. The system is calibrated by determining the position in the electronic image of the object surface at three different heights. The range image is generated from these three known heights from either a previously determined look-up table, or from a calculation based on the invariance of the cross-ratio, a well known ratio from projective geometry.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for producing a range image of an area of the surface of an object, said apparatus comprising, in combination: (a) light source means for projecting a substantially planar light beam onto said object surface to illuminate said surface along a light stripe; (b) electronic camera means, arranged to view said object surface, as illustrated by said light beam, at an angle with respect to the plane of said light beam, for converting the viewed image into an electronic representation thereof which is divided into a plurality of picture scan elements; (c) electronic signal processing means, coupled to said electronic camera means, comprising: (1) means responsive to said electronic representation of said image, for determining the relative position, within said electronic representation, of the scan elements thereof corresponding to said light stripe on said object surface, said position determining means including means for counting the number of scan elements in said electronic representation of said image from a known line of said image to said scan elements corresponding to the image of said light stripe; and (2) table look-up means responsive to said position determining means for determining the height of said object surface at a plurality of points along said light stripe; (3) means responsive to said height determining means for storing each height in association with its respective point of said object surface; and (d) means for moving at least one of (i) said object with respect to said light source means and said camera means and (ii) said light source means and said camera means with respect to said object, thereby to scan an area of said object surface with said planar light beam. 2. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said light source means comprises: (1) means for producing a pencil beam of light; and (2) means for scanning said pencil beam in a substantially linear direction. 3. The apparatus defined in claim 2, wherein said scanning means includes a mirror having a mirror surface arranged in the path of said pencil beam, and means for moving said mirror to adjust the angle of incidence of said pencil beam with respect to said mirror surface. 4. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said light source means comprises: (1) means for producing a pencil beam of light; and (2) means for spreading said pencil beam in a substantially linear direction. 5. The apparatus defined in claim 4, wherein said spreading means includes a cylindrical lens arranged in the path of said pencil beam. 6. The apparatus defined in claim 5, wherein said cylindrical lens has a cylinder axis which intersects and is transverse to said pencil beam. 7. The apparatus defined in claim 2, wherein said means for producing said pencil beam includes a laser. 8. The apparatus defined in claim 4, wherein said means for producing said pencil beam includes a laser. 9. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said light source means projects said light beam in a direction generally perpendicular to said object surface. 10. The apparatus defined in claim 9, wherein said object surface has a minimum height which is generally planar, and wherein the plane of said light beam is substantially perpendicular to the minimum height plane of said object surface. 11. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said electronic camera means comprises video camera means for scanning the viewed image and producing a video signal representing a plurality of horizontal scan lines. 12. The apparatus defined in claim 11, wherein said scan lines form said scan elements of said electronic representation. 13. The apparatus defined in claim 11, wherein said video camera is oriented such that said scan lines are substantially perpendicular to the image of said light stripe. 14. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said camera means has a viewing axis which is arranged at an angle in the range of 10.degree.-80.degree. with respect to the plane of said light beam. 15. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said position determining means includes means for counting the number of scan elements in said electronic representation of said image from the edge of said image to said scan elements corresponding to the image of said light stripe. 16. The apparatus defined in claim 15, wherein said position determining means further includes means for determining the presence of said light stripe image in said electronic representation of said viewed image. 17. The apparatus defined in claim 16, wherein said light stripe presence determining means include signal peak determining means for determining the peak of an electronic representation of said light stripe image. 18. The apparatus defined in claim 16, wherein said light stripe presence determining means include signal threshold means for determining when said electronic representation of said light stripe image exceeds a threshold. 19. The apparatus defined in claim 18, wherein said signal threshold means includes means for varying said threshold. 20. The apparatus defined in claim 16, wherein said light stripe presence determining means include signal centroid determining means for determining the centroid of an electronic representation of said light stripe image. 21. The apparatus defined in claim 15, wherein said counting means include means for generating clock pulses; a pulse counter, responsive to said pulse generator means, for counting said clock pulses during a prescribed period of time; sync generator means, coupled to said pulse generator means, to said camera means and to said pulse counter, for enabling said pulse counter at the beginning of a scan of said camera means; and light stripe detection means, responsive to said electronic representation of said image, for stopping said pulse counter when said light stripe is scanned by said camera means. 22. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said table look-up means includes a table containing the height associated with each possible relative position. 23. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said height determining means include means for storing the known, calibrated height of at least two points (B, D) of different height. 24. The apparatus defined in claim 23, wherein said height determining means include means for storing the known, calibrated height of at least three points (A,B,D) of different height. 25. The apparatus defined in claim 24, wherein points A and D are at substantially minimum and maximum viewing height, respectively, of said camera means, and point B is substantially mid-height between points A and D. 26. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said light source means and said camera means are immovably mounted with respect to each other, and wherein said moving means includes conveyor means for moving said object past said planar light beam. 27. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said light source means and said camera means are mounted on a common support, and wherein said moving means include means for moving said common support past said object so as to scan an area of said object surface with said planar light beam. 28. The apparatus defined in claim 22, further comprising target means, positionable as said object, for calibrating said apparatus, said target means having a different, known height associated with each possible relative position. 29. The apparatus defined in claim 28, wherein said target means is in the shape of a wedge. 30. The apparatus defined in claim 6, wherein said camera means has a viewing axis which is arranged at an angle of 10.degree.-80.degree. with respect to the plane of said light beam. 31. The apparatus defined in claim 30, wherein said cylindrical lens has an optical axis arranged in line with said pencil beam, and wherein said viewing axis of said camera is perpendicular to said optical axis. 32. The apparatus defined in claim 18, wherein said signal threshold means is a Schmitt Trigger circuit. 33. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said signal processing means is continuously operative to repeatedly process and store successive range images of the object surface viewed by said camera means. 34. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said signal processing means is responsive to an externally generated trigger signal to process and store a single range image of the object surface viewed by said camera means. 35. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said signal processing means include a mode switch which is switchable into asynchronous mode and synchronous mode positions, respectively: wherein said signal processing means is continuously operative, when said mode switch is placed in the asynchronous mode position, to repeatedly process and store successive range images of the object surface viewed by said camera means; and wherein said signal processing means is operative, in response to the setting of said mode switch in the synchronous mode position and to an externally generated trigger signal, to process and store a single range image of the object surface viewed by said camera means. 36. The apparatus defined in claim 1, wherein said moving means includes means for varying the speed with which said object is moved with respect to said light source means and said camera means, thereby to vary the pixel density of the scanned image in the direction of scan. 37. Apparatus for producing a range image of an area of the surface of an object, said apparatus comprising, in combination: (a) light source means for projecting a substantially planar light beam onto said object surface to illuminate said surface along a light stripe; (b) electronic camera means, arranged to view said object surface, as illuminated by said light beam, at an angle with respect to the plane of said light beam, for converting the viewed image into an electronic representation thereof which is divided into a plurality of picture scan elements; (c) electronic signal processing means, coupled to said electronic camera means, comprising: (1) means, responsive to said electronic representation of said image, for determining the relative position, within said electronic representation, of the scan elements thereof corresponding to said light stripe on said object surface; (2) means responsive to said position determining means for determining the height of said object surface at a plurality of points along said light stripe, said height determining means including means for determining the height (h) of said object surface at a plurality of points (1, 2, 3 . . . i . . . N) along said light stripe in dependence upon the heights (h(A), h(B), h(D)) of three known points (A,B,D) and the cross ratio (d(A), d(B), d(i), d(D)) with respect to point i, where "d" is the position of the respective point; (3) means responsive to said height determining means for storing each height in association with its respective point on said object surface; and (d) means for moving said object with respect to said light source means and said camera means so as to scan an area of said object surface with said planar light beam. 38. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said heights of said three known points (A, B, D) are, respectively, at substantially minimum height viewable by said camera means, at substantially intermediate height between said minimum and maximum heights viewable by said camera means, and at substantially maximum height viewable by said camera means. 39. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said height h(i) is determined in accordance with the formula: ##EQU13## where d(A)=h(A)=0. 40. The apparatus defined in claim 39, wherein the height h(i) associated with each point (i) is stored in a look-up table in association with the number of scan elements d(i) associated with that point. 41. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said height h(i) is determined in accordance with the formula: ##EQU14## 42. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said height determining means includes: (i) means for precalculating the height h(i) at a plurality of points, with each point i associated with a different scan element d(i) of said electronic representation; (ii) means for storing said precalculated heights h(i) in association with their respective scan elements d(i); and (iii) means, coupled to said position determining means and responsive to the scan element position d(i) corresponding to said light stripe, for retrieving from said storage means the precalculated height h(i) of said light stripe at point i. 43. The apparatus defined in claim 42, wherein said precalculating means calculates the height h(i) at each point i in accordance with the formula: ##EQU15## 44. The apparatus defined in claim 43, wherein d(A)=h(A)=0. 45. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said height determining means includes means, coupled to said position determining means and responsive to the scan element position d(i) corresponding to said light stripe, for calculating the height h(i) of said light stripe at point i. 46. The apparatus defined in claim 45, wherein said calculating means calculates the height h(i) at point i in accordance with the formula ##EQU16## 47. The apparatus defined in claim 46, wherein d(A)=h(A)=0. 48. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein d(i) is the number of scan elements from the edge of said electronic representation of the respective point i. 49. The apparatus defined in claim 37, further comprising target means, positionable as said object, for calibrating said apparatus, said target means having at least two known heights h(B) and h(C). 50. The apparatus defined in claim 49, wherein h(A)=0 and h(B) and h(C) are at substantially mid and maximum viewing heights, respectively of said camera means. 51. The apparatus defined in claim 49, wherein said target means has three known heights h(A), h(B) and h(C). 52. The apparatus defined in claim 51, wherein h(A), h(B) and h(C) are at substantially minimum, mid and maximum heights, respectively, of said camera means. 53. The apparatus defined in claim 42, wherein said storage means is an electrically programmable read only memory (EPROM). 54. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said light source means comprises: (1) means for producing a pencil beam of light; and (2) means for scanning said pencil beam in a substantially linear direction. 55. The apparatus defined in claim 54, wherein said scanning means includes a mirror having a mirror surface arranged in the path of said pencil beam, and means for moving said mirror to adjust the angle of incidence of said pencil beam with respect to said mirror surface. 56. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said light source means comprises: (1) means for producing a pencil beam of light; and (2) means for spreading said pencil beam in a substantially linear direction. 57. The apparatus defined in claim 56, wherein said spreading means includes a cylindrical lens arranged in the path of said pencil beam. 58. The apparatus defined in claim 57, wherein said cylindrical lens has a cylinder axis which intersects and is transverse to said pencil beam. 59. The apparatus defined in claim 54, wherein said means for producing said pencil beam includes a laser. 60. The apparatus defined in claim 56, wherein said means for producing said pencil beam includes a laser. 61. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said light source means projects said light beam in a direction generally perpendicular to said object surface. 62. The apparatus defined in claim 61, wherein said object surface has a minimum height which is generally planar, and wherein the plane of said light beam is substantially perpendicular to the minimum height plane of said object surface. 63. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said electronic camera means comprises video camera means for scanning the viewed image and producing a video signal representing a plurality of horizontal scan lines. 64. The apparatus defined in claim 63, wherein said scan lines form said scan elements of said electronic representation. 65. The apparatus defined in claim 63, wherein said video camera is oriented such that said scan lines are substantially perpendicular to the image of said light stripe. 66. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein the viewing axis of said camera means is arranged at an angle in the range of 10.degree.-80.degree. with respect to the plane of said light beam. 67. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said position determining means includes means for counting the number of scan elements in said electronic representation of said image from the edge of said image to said scan elements corresponding to the image of said light stripe. 68. The apparatus defined in claim 67, wherein said position determining means further includes means for determining the presence of said light stripe image in said electronic representation of said viewed image. 69. The apparatus defined in claim 68, wherein said light stripe presence determining means include signal peak determining means for determining the peak of an electronic representation of said light stripe image. 70. The apparatus defined in claim 68, wherein said light stripe presence determining means include signal threshold means for determining when said electronic representation of said light stripe image exceeds a threshold. 71. The apparatus defined in claim 70, wherein said signal threshold means includes means for varying said threshold. 72. The apparatus defined in claim 68, wherein said light stripe presence determining means include signal centroid determining means for determining the centroid of an electronic representation of said light stripe image. 73. The apparatus defined in claim 67, wherein said counting means include means for generating clock pulses; a pulse counter, responsive to said pulse generator means, for counting said clock pulses during a prescribed period of time; sync generator means, coupled to said pulse generator means, to said camera means and to said pulse counter, for enabling said pulse counter at the beginning of a scan of said camera means; and light stripe detection means, responsive to said electronic representation of said image, for stopping said pulse counter when said light stripe is scanned by said camera means. 74. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said height determining means include means for storing the known, calibrated height of at least two points (B, D) of different height. 75. The apparatus defined in claim 74, wherein said height determining means include means for storing the known, calibrated height of at least three points (A,B,D) of different height. 76. The apparatus defined in claim 75, wherein points A and D are at substantially minimum and maximum viewing height, respectively, of said camera means, and point B is substantially mid-height between points A and D. 77. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said light source means and said camera means are immovably mounted with respect to each other, and wherein said moving means includes conveyor means for moving said object past said planar light beam. 78. The apparatus defined in claim 37, wherein said light source means and said camera means are mounted on a common support, and wherein said moving means include means for moving said common support past said object so as to scan an area of said object surface with said planar light beam. 79. A method of calibrating apparatus for producing a range image of an area of the surface of an object, said method comprising the step of: (a) viewing a target object having a surface with at least three known heights h(A), h(B) and h(D) at different points A, B and D along a light stripe, and producing an electronic representation of said target object along said light stripe which is divided into a plurality of picture scan elements; and (b) determining the relative positions, d(A), d(B) and d(D), within said electronic representation of the scan elements thereof, of said target object surface at said known heights h(A), h(B) and h(D). 80. The method defined in claim 79, wherein the height h(A) of point A equals 0, and wherein said target object is viewed such that said relative position d(A) equals 0. 81. The method defined in claim 79, further comprising the steps of determining the height h(i) of a point i at each possible relative position d(i), and storing said heights in a look-up table. 82. The method defined in claim 81, wherein said heights h(i) are determined in accordance in the formula: ##EQU17## 83. The method defined in claim 82, wherein the height h(A) of point A equals 0, and wherein said target object is viewed such that said relative position d(A) equals 0. 84. The method defined in claim 82, further comprising the steps of determining the height h(i) of a point i at each possible relative position d(i), and storing said heights in a look-up table. 85. A method for producing a range image of an area of the surface of an object, said method comprising the steps of: (a) projecting a substantially planar light beam onto said object surface to illuminate said surface along a light stripe; (b) viewing said object surface, as illuminated by said light beam, at an angle with respect to the plane of said light beam and converting the viewed image into an image representation thereof which is divided into a plurality of picture scan elements; (c) determining the relative positions, within said representation, of the scan elements thereof corresponding to said light stripe on said object surface; (d) determining the height of said object surface at a plurality of points along said light stripe by means of the following steps: (1) determining the height of at least three points (A,B,D) of different height within the field of view of said object surface, as illuminated by said light beam; and (2) calculating from said known heights and from the relative positions, within said image representation, of the scan elements thereof corresponding to said light stripe on said object surface, the height h(i) of said object surface at each point (i) a plurality of points along said light stripe being calculated according to the formula: ##EQU18## where d(i) is the number of scan elements from the edge of the image representation to each respective point i; and (e) moving said object with respect to said planar light beam so as to scan an area of said object surface with said light beam. 86. The method defined in claim 85, wherein said height h(i) at each point (i) is calculated according to the formula: ##EQU19## where d(i) is the number of scan elements from the edge of the image representation to each respective point i. 87. The method defined in claim 86, wherein said viewing step is carried out such that d(A)=h(A)=0 in the viewed image. 