An improved robotic contractile device having, besides general industrial and other-usage applicability for automation and other purposes, particularly attractive utility in and for prosthetic applicances and which is characterizable in being able to function in a way remarkably analogous to that of biological muscle is structurally made up of an expandable conduit which is contractible on fluid inflation with a plurality of longitudinally-directed filaments peripherally-secured thereabout that are connectable with an object to be moved or displaced as a result of the contractability experienced upon inflation of said conduit; there being associated means in the device for introducing and exhausting fluid under pressure to the interior of the said conduit in order to inflate same to effectuate its motive contraction action and deflate it to its normal rest condition of maximum or intermediate extension. The way of using the device takes advantage of the cooperative interaction of its constructional components and means.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tree trimmer appliance for snipping and cutting twigs and branches in which a cutting means is at a spaced distance from a handling and manipulating end of the appliance comprising: an extending support pole having spaced-apart terminating extremities sufficiently distance one-from-another to facilitate reaching an object to be severed by an operator of the appliance; with a handle and manipulating end portion towards one of said extremities of said pole; and an actuatable cutting means having at least one movable cutting part that is closable for severing performance thereof by pulling effort upon said at least one movable cutting part; said cutting means being positioned and secured on said pole at or near an outward extremity of said pole projecting opposite said handle portion thereof; wherein there comprises between said extremities of and along said pole for energization and movement-powering of said cutting means by contractile pulling action of a robotic fluid-actuated muscle analogue device adapted to exert contractile and pulling motive power upon its activation, said device comprising: a hollow expandable central conduit member containing an interior void space and having an expandable, balloonable, fluid-confining wall structure thereabout, i.e., about said void space, and respective end portions terminating same, said expandable conduit member exhibiting end-to-end contractibility when inflated from a position of undistended and non-foreshortened rest upon admission thereinto within said interior void space thereof of a fluid under pressure for expanding activation of said conduit member; at least a single, longitudinally-extending strand of filamentary material running at least relatively peripherally as to, and fixedly secured with, said wall structure of the expandable conduit member of which said filamentary material is an integral part in physical attachment thereto, said filamentary material being aligned so as to extend along from one end of the expandable conduit to another end of said conduit member in emplacement therewith that is at least substantially parallel with the longitudinal center line of said conduit, said filamentary material having a tensile extensibility that is not in any substantial excess of the elongability of same under internal fluid-pressurization of the material of construction of said expandable conduit member; means connected with the void space in said hollow expansable conduit member for introducing fluid under pressure thereinto for inflationary activation thereof, whereby said expandable conduit member becomes ballooned, so as to contractibly assume a foreshortened end-to-end length with corresponding lessening of the effective longitudinal span of the therewith emplaced and associated filamentary material; and mechanical means for interlinkingly coupling through and with the extremity portions of said filamentary material the contractible ends of said expandable conduit member for physically anchoring same at one end thereof and respectively connecting same with a load to be moved at the other end thereof; said appliance having means for mechanically coupling the movable, tractile end of said robotic fluid-actuated muscle analogue device with said cutting means for interlinking movement of said cutting means. 2. The tree trimmer appliance of claim 1, further including: at least one engirdling, circumenvelopingly-binding and-constricting cinch means along the length of said expandable conduit member for constraining and preventing inflationary expansion and distension of the conduit member at the site of the restraining cinch girdle thereof, whereby upon fluid-actuating pressurization of said expandable conduit member it is inflated in a series of sequentially segmented ballooned portions, magnifying its contractibility. 3. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 2, having a plurality of said cinch means constraining said expandable conduit member. 4. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 1, adapted for use with water as the fluid introducable under pressure in said robotic fluid-actuated muscle analogue device for energization and movement-powering of said cutting means, wherein a valve is connected in communication with said void space of said hollow expansible conduit member which permits the introduction of the water for the energization and movement-powering. 5. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 4, adapted to have water provided through an ordinary garden hose. 6. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 2, adapted for use with water as the fluid introducable under pressure in said robotic fluid-actuated muscle analogue device for energization and movement-powering of said cutting means, wherein a valve is connected in communication with said void space of said hollow expansible conduit member which permits the introduction of the water for the energization and movement-powering. 7. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 6, adapted to have water provided through an ordinary garden hose. 8. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 3, adapted for use with water as the fluid introducable under pressure in said robotic fluid-actuated muscle analogue device for energization and movement-powering of said cutting means, wherein a valve is connected in communication with said void space of said hollow expansible conduit member which permits the introduction of the water for the energization and movement-powering. 9. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 8, adapted to have water provided through an ordinary garden hose. 10. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 1, wherein there is a plurality of said strands of longitudinally-extending filamentary material emplaced with said expandable conduit. 11. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 2, wherein there is a plurality of said strands of longitudinally-extending filamentary material emplaced with said expandable conduit. 12. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 3, wherein there is a plurality of said strands of longitudinally-extending filamentary material emplaced with said expandable conduit. 13. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 10, wherein said expandable conduit member is made of a synthetic elastomeric material. 14. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 11, wherein said expandable conduit member is made of a synthetic elastomeric material. 15. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 12, wherein said expandable conduit member is made of a synthetic elastomeric material. 16. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 10, wherein said expandable conduit member is made of natural gum rubber. 17. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 11, wherein said expandable conduit member is made of natural gum rubber. 18. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 12, wherein said expandable conduit member is made of natural gum rubber. 19. The tree-trimmer appliance of claim 9, wherein there is a plurality of said strands of longitudinally-extending filamentary material emplaced with said expandable conduit and said expandable conduit member is made of a synthetic elastomeric material. 