A stereo-camera head is provided, particularly for robotic applications, in which the parameters of focus, zoom and camera convergence are adjusted by remotely controlled motor drives. Camera separation distance and iris function can be similarly controlled. Twin cameras can be mounted on a common base by means of camera cradles pivotally mounted on the base or by means of rotary carriers that are mounted to traverse along respective lead screws driven by respective stepper motors. Alternatively, there may be a single camera lens system transmitting both left and right images received from left and right movable optical elements via a beam splitter/combiner. Two CCD imaging chips can receive the left and right images from the single lens system via a second beam splitter/combiner. A controlling micro-computer can be employed to keep the stereo images within human tolerance of fusion limits.
Claims I claim: 1. A stereo-camera head, comprising: means to adjust at least one of the parameters involved in stereo-scopic viewing from a remote location while the camera head is in use, and preprogrammable control means to preset a value of fusion tolerance for maintaining the stereo camera images within human tolerance of fusion limits during such use. 2. A stereo-camera head according to claim 1, further comprising vision control circuitry to receive the left and right camera signal outputs and generate a left and right sequentially switching video signal and control outputs switching in synchronism with the video signal for application to a stereoscopic viewer. 3. A stereo-camera head according to claim 1, wherein said control means includes a microcomputer. 4. A stereo camera head according to claim 1 where the preprogrammable control means is programmable with the average value for the human tolerance of fusion limits. 5. A stereo-camera head according to claim 1, comprising twin cameras mounted on a common base, at least one of said cameras being movably mounted, and motor-driven means for adjusting the mutual convergence of the cameras. 6. A stereo-camera head according to claim 5, comprising motor driven means for varying the mutual separation distance of the two cameras. 7. A stereo-camera head according to claim 6, wherein each camera is rotatably mounted on a respective carrier which is in turn mounted to traverse along a respective lead-screw driven by a respective stepper motor. 8. A stereo-camera head according to claim 5, further comprising motor-driven means for adjusting the focus of both cameras simultaneously. 9. A stereo-camera head according to claim 8, further comprising motor-driven means for adjusting the zoom controls of both cameras simultaneously. 10. A stereo-camera head according to claim 9, further comprising motor-driven means for adjusting the iris controls of both cameras. 11. A stereo-camera head according to claim 9, wherein each camera is mounted on a respective support cradle and each support cradle is pivotally mounted on said common base to pivot about a substantially vertical axis located adjacent the front end of the respective camera. 12. A stereo-camera head according to claim 11, wherein one camera is adjustably mounted on its respective support cradle for achieving geometrical alignment. 13. A stereo-camera head, comprising: means to adjust at least one of the parameters involved in stereo-scopic viewing from a remote location while the camera head is in use, control means for maintaining the stereo camera images within human tolerance of fusion limits, a video display, and means for injecting left and right measuring markers into the video display that can be moved at will within the area of the screen to enable an individual to perform a test for determining personal tolerance of fusion limits for entry into the camera control means. 14. A stereo-camera head according to claim 13, comprising twin cameras mounted on a common base, at least one of said cameras being movably mounted, and motor-driven means for adjusting the mutual convergence of the cameras. 15. A stereo-camera head according to claim 14, further comprising motor-driven means for adjusting the focus of both cameras simultaneously. 16. A stereo-camera head according to claim 15, further comprising motor-driven means for adjusting the zoom controls of both cameras simultaneously. 17. A stereo-camera head according to claim 14, comprising motor-driven means for varying the mutual separation distance of the two cameras. 18. A stereo-camera head according to claim 17, wherein each camera is rotatably mounted on a respective carrier which is in turn mounted to traverse along a respective lead-screw driven by a respective stepper motor. 19. A stereo-camera head, comprising: means to adjust at least one of the parameters involved in stereo-scopic viewing from a remote location while the camera head is in use, a single camera lens system, beam splitting/combining means, and separate left and right movable optical elements which transmit left and right images through the single camera lens system via the beam splitting/combining means. 20. A stereo-camera head according to claim 19, further comprising two CCD imaging chips receiving the left and right images from said single camera lens system via a second beam splitting/combining means. 21. A stereo-camera head according to claim 19, further comprising control circuitry for said single camera lens system and said left and right movable optical elements which control circuitry includes means for generating non-linear convergence/zoom and convergence focus control characteristics. 22. A stereo-camera head according to claim 21, wherein said non-linear control characteristics generating means comprise memory means in which look-up tables are stored. 