A variable compliance device having a tool plate attached between a tool and a robot arm to allow limited movement of the tool plate relative to the robot arm. A concave bill seat connected to the tool plate and a pin having a concave surface house a bearing ball. An inflatable diaphragm exerts a force on a piston toward the pins to force the pins against the bearing balls. Movement of the tool plate relative to the robot arm causes the pins to move relative to the robot arm. The force of the diaphragm on the pins resists movement of the tool plate relative to the robot arm, and restores the tool plate to its original position after the outside force is removed. If the pins are moved beyond a selected point, a sensor senses the movement and sends a signal to shut down the robot.
Claims We claim: 1. A variable compliance device comprising: a tool plate for attachment to a tool; housing means for coupling the tool plate to a robot arm to allow limited longitudinal, lateral, and rotational movement of the tool plate relative to the robot arm; the tool plate and the housing means defining a central, axially extending passageway; bearings between said housing means and said tool plate to facilitate lateral and rotational movement of the tool plate relative to the housing means; a plurality of concave ball seats mounted on the tool plate and positioned at circumferentially spaced points around the central, axially extending passageway; a plurality of balls each recessed in one of the ball seats of the tool plate; a plurality of pins each slidably mounted on the housing means and each having a concave surface for operative engagement one of the balls in the concave ball seats so that longitudinal, lateral, or rotational movement of the tool plate relative to the robot arm caused by an outside force causes the pins to move relative to the housing means; and pnuematic bias means associated with the pins for exerting a force against the pins towards the concave ball seat to resist movement of the tool plate relative to the housing means and to restore the tool plate to its original position relative to the housing means after the outside force is removed. 2. A variable compliance device comprising: a tool plate for attachment to a tool; housing means for coupling the tool plate to a robot arm to allow limited longitudinal, lateral, and rotational movement of the tool plate relative to the robot arm; the tool plate and the housing means defining a central, axially extending passageway; a plurality of concave ball seats associated with the tool plate and located at circumferentially spaced points around the central, axially extending passageway; a bearing ball located in each ball seat for movement on the concave surface; a plurality of pins, each pin slidably mounted on the housing means and having a concave surface on a first end for engagement with a corresponding one of the bearing balls so that longitudinal, lateral, or rotational movement of the tool plate relative to the housing means caused by an outside force applied to the tool plate causes at least one of the pins to move relative to the housing means; and pneumatic adjustable bias means associated with all of the pins for exerting a force against all of the pins toward the bearing balls to resist movement of the tool plate relative to the housing means and to restore the tool plate to its original position relative to the housing means after the outside force is removed. 3. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 2, wherein the bias means is adjustable to exert a selected force against the pin. 4. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 2, wherein the bias means further comprises: an inflatable diaphragm operatively engaging the second end of the pin; and means for inflating the diaphragm to a selected pressure to resist slidable movement of the pin. 5. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 4, wherein the inflating means extends through the interior of the robot arm. 6. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 2, further comprising sensing means operatively associated with each pin for sensing movement of the associated pin relative to the robot arm beyond a selected point. 7. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 6, wherein the sensing means comprises: a subminiature basic switch; and a bearing ball initially held against the switch by the pin and released to activate the switch when the pin moves beyond a selected point relative to the robot arm. 8. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 2, wherein the pin is substantially cylindrical and the concave surface is on one end of the cylinder. 9. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 2, further comprising a piston between the pin and the bias means for transfering force from the bias means to the pin. 10. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 2, further comprising a quick change adapter mounted between the tool plate and the robot arm to allow tools to be quickly connected to and disconnected from the tool plate. 11. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 4, further comprising a quick change adapter mounted between the tool plate and the robot mounting arm to allow tools to be quickly connected to and disconnected from the tool plate. 12. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 11, further comprising means for providing fluid pressure to the quick change adapter to connect a tool to the tool plate or to disconnect a tool from the tool plate. 13. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 12, wherein the inflating means and the means for providing fluid pressure to the quick change adapter extend through the interior of the robot arm. 14. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 12, wherein the inflating means and the means for providing fluid pressure to the quick change adapter are outside of the robot arm. 15. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 2, wherein the concave ball seat and the concave surface on each pin have constant slope angles. 16. A variable compliance device as recited in claim 2, wherein the concave ball seat and the concave surface on each pin have changing slope angles to represent a selected spring constant. 