A subsea vertical glider robot which supports deployment in subsea oilfield activities is disclosed. This vertical glider robot can also be used in oceanographic research exploration. One application of this vertical glider robot is the autonomous delivery of equipment and sensor systems to a precise predetermined location on the sea floor. The vertical glider robot is deployed from a surface ship or any other suitable sea surface platform and allowed to free fall to the bottom of the ocean. The traversal through the body of water is performed primarily by converting initial potential energy of the apparatus into kinetic energy, it does not use propellers. The traversing of the seafloor is controlled with a steering module that refines orientation while processing information about the vertical glider robot's current position and the target where it has to land.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An untethered autonomous apparatus for traversing a body of water comprising: a perception system inside an enclosure module adapted to gather navigation information; a steering system including a plurality of actuable fins adapted to autonomously steer the apparatus while traversing the body of water from a first location towards an second location, wherein the untethered autonomous apparatus is adapted to maintain a substantially constant density during the traversing of the body of water; and wherein the perception system includes a camera and a processing system adapted to aid in navigation of the untethered autonomous apparatus. 2. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the second position is predetermined, and one of the first and second location is at or near a water surface and the other of the first and second location is at or near a floor of the body of water. 3. The untethered autonomous apparatus of claim 2 wherein the predetermined location is one of a plurality of locations distributed on the floor of the body of water in a grid pattern. 4. The untethered autonomous apparatus of claim 2 wherein the untethered autonomous apparatus anchors to the floor of the body of water. 5. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the first location is at or near a water surface and the second location is at or near a floor of the body of water, and wherein the untethered autonomous apparatus is substantially negatively buoyant such that the untethered autonomous apparatus falls through the body of water towards the floor of the body of water. 6. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the first location is at or near a floor of the body of water and the second location is at or near a water surface, and wherein the untethered autonomous apparatus is substantially positively buoyant such that the untethered autonomous apparatus rises through the body of water toward the surface of the body of water. 7. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising one or more releasable high-density members adapted to be released from the untethered autonomous apparatus thereby causing the untethered autonomous apparatus to change from substantially negatively buoyant to substantially positively buoyant. 8. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 7 wherein the one or more releasable high-density members includes a detachable nose member. 9. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the first and second location are separated by more than about 1 kilometer in vertical distance. 10. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 1 wherein a substantial portion of the traversing is in primarily a vertical direction. 11. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the perception system includes a communication system adapted to communicate with a device that monitors a direction and/or location of the untethered autonomous apparatus. 12. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the device that monitors a direction and/or location of the untethered autonomous apparatus is located on the surface of the body of water. 13. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the perception system includes an acoustic transceiver adapted to transmit an acoustic pulse detectable by the device. 14. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 13 wherein the device and the acoustic transceiver form at least part of an underwater acoustic positioning system. 15. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 14 wherein the underwater acoustic positioning system is of a type selected from a group consisting of: long-baseline, ultra-short-baseline, super short baseline, short baseline, and GPS intelligent buoys. 16. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the perception system includes a compass and/or a depth sensor. 17. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the untethered autonomous apparatus is adapted to autonomously deliver equipment to the second location on a floor of the body of water. 18. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the equipment includes one or more types of equipment selected from a group consisting of: sensors, valves, and completion components. 19. An untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising an electromagnetic sensor system adapted to make electromagnetic measurements at or near a floor of the body of water. 20. The untethered autonomous apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of actuatable fins are actuated with one or a plurality of actuators. 21. A method for traversing a body of water with an untethered autonomous apparatus comprising: placing the untethered autonomous apparatus in the body of water; perceiving navigation information by the untethered autonomous apparatus using a perception system inside an enclosure module which includes a camera and a processing system adapted to aid in navigation of the untethered autonomous apparatus; steering the untethered autonomous apparatus in part using the navigation information and a plurality of actuatable fins so as to traverse the body of water from a first location to a second location; and maintaining a substantially constant density of the untethered autonomous apparatus during the traversing of the body of water. 22. A method according to claim 21 wherein the first location is at or near a water surface and the second location is a predetermined location at or near a floor of the body of water, and wherein the untethered autonomous apparatus is substantially negatively buoyant such that the untethered autonomous apparatus falls through the body of water towards the floor of the body of water. 23. A method according to claim 22 wherein the traversal through the body of water is performed primarily by converting initial potential energy of the untethered autonomous apparatus into kinetic energy. 24. A method according to claim 21 wherein the first location is at or near a floor of the body of water and the second location is at or near a water surface, and wherein the untethered autonomous apparatus is substantially positively buoyant such that the untethered autonomous apparatus rises through the body of water toward the surface of the body of water. 25. A method according to claim 24 further comprising releasing, at the first location, one or more high-density members from the untethered autonomous apparatus thereby causing the untethered autonomous apparatus to change from substantially negatively buoyant to substantially positively buoyant. 26. A method according to claim 21 wherein the perceiving includes communicating with a device that monitors a direction and/or location of the untethered autonomous apparatus. 27. A method according to claim 26 wherein the device that monitors a direction and/or location of the untethered autonomous apparatus is located on the surface of the body of water. 28. A method according to claim 27 wherein the perceiving further includes transmitting an acoustic pulse from the untethered autonomous apparatus which is detectable by the device, and wherein the device forms part of an underwater acoustic positioning system. 29. A method according to claim 28 wherein the underwater acoustic positioning system is of a type selected from a group consisting of: long-baseline, ultra-short-baseline, super short baseline, short baseline, and GPS intelligent buoys. 30. A method according to claim 21 further comprising autonomously delivering equipment to the second location on a floor of the body of water. 31. A method according to claim 21 further comprising making electromagnetic measurements at or near a floor of the body of water with the untethered autonomous apparatus. 32. A method of concurrently traversing a body of water with a plurality of untethered autonomous apparatuses comprising concurrently carrying out the method according to claim 21 for the plurality of untethered autonomous apparatuses. 33. A method according to claim 32 wherein the second positions associated with each of the untethered autonomous apparatuses forms a grid pattern on a floor of the body of water. 34. A method for traversing a body of water with an untethered autonomous apparatus comprising: placing the untethered autonomous apparatus in the body of water; perceiving navigation information by the untethered autonomous apparatus using a perception system inside an enclosure module which includes a camera and a processing system adapted to aid in navigation of the untethered autonomous apparatus; steering the untethered autonomous apparatus in part using the navigation information so as to traverse the body of water from a first location to a second location wherein the traversal through the body of water is performed primarily by converting initial potential energy of the untethered autonomous apparatus into kinetic energy. 35. A method according to claim 34 wherein the traversal does not rely on propellers movement though the body of water. 36. A method according to claim 34 further comprising maintaining a substantially constant density of the untethered autonomous apparatus during the traversing of the body of water. 37. A method according to claim 34 wherein the first location is at or near a water surface and the second location is a predetermined location at or near a floor of the body of water, and wherein the untethered autonomous apparatus is substantially negatively buoyant such that the untethered autonomous apparatus falls through the body of water towards the floor of the body of water. 38. A method according to claim 34 wherein the perceiving includes communicating with a device that monitors a direction and/or location of the untethered autonomous apparatus. 39. A method according to claim 38 wherein the perceiving further includes transmitting an acoustic pulse from the untethered autonomous apparatus which is detectable by the device, and wherein the device forms part of an underwater acoustic positioning system. 40. A method according to claim 39 wherein the underwater acoustic positioning system is of a type selected from a group consisting of: long-baseline, ultra-short-baseline, super short baseline, short baseline, and GPS intelligent buoys. 