A mechanical method for splitting the breastbone of hog carcasses comprises the steps of determining, by means of a sensor device, the length of the carcass by determining the distance between a datum plane and the snout of the carcass. The cutting of the carcass is then initiated, by means of a remote controlled cutting hit point on the carcass that is located at a distance from the datum plane that is a function of the length of the carcass. The length of the cut from the hit point to a cut termination point on the carcass is controlled as a function of the length of the carcass as determined by the position of its snout. The breast splitter comprises a snout height sensor for determining the length of the suspended carcass by determining the distance between the datum plane and its snout. A detector is provided for detecting the positioning of the selected suspended carcass at a control point along the path of the overhead conveyor. A robotic cutter is provided. The robotic cutter has a cutter blade and a manipulator mounting the cutter blade for movement along a controlled path which initially extends from an initiation point toward the carcass to contact the carcass at a hit point and then extends downwardly along a cutting stroke. A programmable controller communicates with the snout height sensor and the position detector to receive and is programmed to process the signals it receives to generate command signals which are indicative of the height of the hit point and the length of the cutting stroke required to split the breastbone without damaging the vital organs of the carcass. The controller communicates with said robotic cutter means to transmit the command signals to the manipulator.
Claims I claim: 1. A mechanical method for splitting the breastbone of successive livestock carcasses which are suspended by their hind legs, head down from hangers suspended from an overhead conveyor, the hangers being movable along the overhead conveyor through a breastbone splitting station at a fixed height with respect to a datum plane such that each carcass has a readily detectable low end portion, the height from the datum plane to the lower end point varying according to the size of the carcass, comprising the steps of; (a) determining, by means of a sensor device, the length of a selected carcass by determining the distance between the datum plane and the lower end point of the selected carcass, (b) initiating, by means of a remote controlled cutting device, the cutting of the selected carcass at a hit point on the selected carcass that is located at a distance from the datum plane that is a function of the length of the carcass as determined by the position of the lower end point as determined by the sensor device, (c) controlling the length of the cut from the hit point to to a cut termination point on the carcass as a function of the length of the carcass as determined by the position of its lower end point as determined by the sensor device. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the lower end point which is sensed by the sensor means is the nose of the suspended livestock carcasses. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2 wherein the carcasses are hog carcasses. 4. A breast splitter for use in a breastbone splitting station of a livestock carcass processing line in which hog carcasses are suspended by their hind legs, head down from hangers which are continuously driven along an overhead conveyor in a predetermined path that extends in a datum plane through the splitting station, such that the lower end point of the carcasses projects downwardly, the height from the lower end point to the datum plane varying according to the size of the carcasses comprising; (a) lower end point height determining means for determining the length of a selected suspended carcass by determining the distance between the datum plane and its lower end point and generating a first signal which is indicative of the determined height of the carcass, (b) detector means for detecting the positioning of the selected suspended carcass at a control point along the path of the overhead conveyor and generating a second signal that is indicative of the fact that the selected carcass is at said control point, (c) robotic cutter means having a cutter blade and manipulator means mounting the cutter blade for movement along a controlled path which initially extends from an initiation point toward the carcass to contact the carcass at a hit point and then extends downwardly along a cutting stroke that extends along the breastbone of the selected carcass to a termination point and then laterally away from the carcass and then returns to the initiation point, while simultaneously moving longitudinally with the carcass while in contact with the carcass. 5. A breast splitter as claimed in claim 4, for use in association with carcasses of the type in which the nose forms the lower end point and the lower end point height determining means is arranged to determine the height of the nose from the datum plane. 