A walking beam conveyor (54) delivers drill bits (B), one at a time, into a feed position. A pushrod (52) moves a drill bit (B) from the feed position into the nosepiece (36) of a robot arm (28). The drill bit (B) enters the nosepiece (36) shank end first. The shank (84) enters into and is gripped by a collet (38) in the nosepiece (36). A stylus (66) is then lowered down onto the point end portion of the drill bit (B) and the drill bit (B) is rotated about its axis until the stylus (66) drops down to the bottom of the drill bit flute (70). Rotation is immediately stopped and the robot arm (28) is retracted and swung into a position of alignment with a drill bit holder (18) of a sharpening machine. The robot arm (28) is then extended to place the drill bit (B) into a collet (C) in the holder (18). The collet (C) is operated to grasp the drill bit (B) and the collet (38) in the nosepiece (36) is operated to release the drill bit (B). The holder (18) then moves in position to in turn move the point of the drill bit (B) into contact with a surface of a rotating grinding wheel (14). The drill bit (B) was rotated while in the nosepiece (36) to in that manner orient the point surfaces of the drill bit for proper contact with the grinding wheel (14). Oversized and undersized drill bits (B), and drill bits (B) with excessive material buildup, are detected and rejected.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Mechanism for feeding drill bits one at a time into a drill bit holder of a drill bit sharpener which includes a grinding wheel, comprising: a drill bit carrier movable between a drill bit receiving position and a drill bit inserting position, said carrier including a collet for receiving the shank end of a drill bit when the carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, and means for rotating the collet in position about the drill bit axis; means for inserting a drill bit into the collet when the drill bit carrier is in its drill bit receiving position and closing the collet to grip said drill bit; locator means for sensing the position of the drill bit in the collet and rotating the collet an amount sufficient to position the point of the drill bit for proper contact with the grinding wheel; means for then moving the carrier from its drill bit receiving position into its drill bit inserting position, said drill bit being aligned with the drill bit holder when the carrier is in its drill bit inserting position; means for then moving the collet endwise an amount sufficient to insert the drill bit into the drill bit holder and opening the collet to release the drill bit from the collet; and means for moving the carrier back into its drill bit receiving position, for receiving another drill bit. 2. Mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the drill bit carrier includes a generally horizontal arm and means for swinging the arm in position about a generally vertical axis, for moving it between its drill bit receiving and drill bit inserting positions, and wherein the collet is at one end of the arm. 3. Mechanism according to claim 2, wherein the means for inserting a drill bit into the collet includes a conveyor for moving the drill bit into a position of spaced axial alignment with the collet when the drill bit carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, and extendible/retractable pushrod means extendible against the point end of the drill bit, for moving the drill bit endwise from such position toward the collet, and its shank end into the collet. 4. Mechanism according to claim 3, wherein the conveyor is movable in position between an extended position in which a drill bit to be installed into the chuck is in a position of spaced axial alignment with the chuck, and a retracted position spaced laterally away from the extended position. 5. Mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the means for inserting a drill bit into the collet includes a conveyor for moving the drill bit into a position of spaced axial alignment with the collet, and pushrod means extendible against the point end of the drill bit, for moving the drill bit endwise from such position toward the collet, and its shank end into the collet. 6. Mechanism according to claim 5 wherein the conveyor is a walking beam conveyor which advances a plurality of drill bits sideways, one step at a time, to an end position on the conveyor, and said conveyor includes means mounting it for movement between an extended position, in which a drill at the end position is in said position of spaced axial alignment with the collet, and a retracted position in which the end position of the conveyor is spaced back from the region through which the pushrod means moves. 7. Mechanism according to claim 1, where the locator means includes a stylus positioned to enter a flute of the drill bit, and means for sensing a predetermined position of the stylus in the flute and stopping the rotation of the collet in response to the stylus reaching such predetermined position. 8. Mechanism according to claim 7, wherein the stylus is positioned generally vertically above the drill bit and it falls by gravity into the flute. 9. Mechanism according to claim 8, comprising a support for the stylus mounted for pivotal movement about a horizontal axis in response to the stylus dropping into the drill bit flute, and wherein said means for sensing a predetermined position of the stylus includes the stylus support. 10. Mechanism according to claim 9, wherein said means for sensing the predetermined position of the stylus includes a sensor for sensing a position of a portion of the stylus support. 11. Mechanism according to claim 1, comprising means for sensing a buildup in a flute portion of the drill bit when the drill bit is in the collet of the drill bit carrier and the drill bit carrier is in a drill bit receiving position, and reject means operable in response to an excessive build-up to remove the drill bit from the collet before the drill bit carrier moves into its drill bit inserting position. 12. Mechanism according to claim 11, wherein the locator means includes a stylus positioned to enter a flute of the drill bit, and means for sensing position of the stylus in the flute and stopping the rotation of the collet in response to the stylus reaching a predetermined position in said flute, and wherein said means for sensing a build-up in the flute includes the stylus and the means for sensing the position of the stylus in the flute. 13. Mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the locator means includes a stylus positioned generally vertically above the drill bit, and positioned to fall by gravity into a flute of the drill bit, means for sensing a predetermined position of the stylus in the flute in stopping the rotation of the collet, in response to the stylus reaching such predetermined position, and support structure for the stylus including a post spaced generally axially of the collet when the carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, a support arm connected to the top of the post and extending generally horizontally toward the collet, said stylus being connected to an end portion of the support arm, and wherein the means for inserting a drill bit into the collet includes a conveyor for moving the drill bit into a position of spaced axial alignment with the collet, and pushrod means extendible against the point end of the drill bit, for moving the drill bit endwise from such position toward the collet, and its shank end into the collet. 14. Mechanism for feeding drill bits one at a time into a drill bit holder of a drill bit sharpener which includes a grinding wheel, comprising: a drill bit carrier movable between a drill bit receiving position and a drill bit inserting position, said carrier including a collet for receiving the shank end of a drill bit when the carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, and means for rotating the collet in position about the drill bit axis; means for inserting a drill bit into the collet when the drill bit carrier is in its drill bit receiving position and closing the collet to grip said drill bit; locator means for sensing the position of the drill bit in the collet and rotating the collet an amount sufficient to position the point of the drill bit for proper contact with the grinding wheel, said locator means including a stylus positioned to enter a flute of the drill bit, and means for sensing a predetermined position of the stylus in the flute and stopping the rotation of the collet in response to the stylus reaching such predetermined position; means for then moving the carrier from its drill bit receiving position into its drill bit inserting position, said drill bit being aligned with the drill bit holder when the carrier is in its drill bit inserting position; means for then moving the collet endwise an amount sufficient to insert the drill bit into the drill holder and opening the collet to release the drill bit from the collet; means for moving the carrier back into its drill bit receiving position, for receiving another drill bit; and a bushing for surrounding and supporting the drill bit while it is being rotated; and a support for the bushing that is mounted for axial movement of the bushing between an extended position in which the drill bit is in the bushing and a retracted position in which said bushing is spaced axially from the drill bit point. 15. Mechanism according to claim 14, comprising means for positioning the stylus above the drill bit, the bushing, and the bushing support during movement of the bushing and its support, in a position in which the stylus will not interfere with such movement. 16. Mechanism according to claim 15, wherein the stylus support includes a generally horizontal arm from which the stylus depends, means mounting such arm for pivotal movement about a generally horizontal axis spaced from the stylus, and a generally vertical portion depending from said arm at a location between the stylus and the pivot axis, and wherein said means for sensing the predetermined position of the stylus includes a sensor which senses position of a portion of said vertical member relative to such sensor. 17. Mechanism according to claim 16, further comprising pusher means extendible against said generally vertical member, in a direction to cause an upward swinging movement of the support arm for the stylus for moving the stylus upwardly out of the way of the bushing and its support, during movement of the bushing and its support between their two positions. 18. Mechanism for feeding drill bits one at a time into a drill bit holder of a drill bit sharpener which includes a grinding wheel, comprising: a drill bit carrier movable between a drill bit receiving position and a drill bit inserting position, said carrier including a collet for receiving the shank end of a drill bit when the carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, and means for rotating the collet in position about the drill bit axis, a generally horizontal arm, and means for swinging the arm in position about a generally vertical axis, for moving it between its drill bit receiving and drill bit inserting positions, and wherein the collet is at one end of the arm; means for inserting a drill bit into the collet when the drill bit carrier is in its drill bit receiving position and closing the collet to grip said drill bit, including a conveyor for moving the drill bit into a position of spaced axial alignment with the collet when the drill bit carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, and extendible/retractable pushrod means extendible against the point end of the drill bit, for moving the drill bit endwise from such position toward the collet, and its shank end into the collet, wherein the conveyor is movable in position between an extended position in which a drill bit to be installed into the chuck is in a position of spaced axial alignment with the chuck, and a retracted position spaced laterally away from the extended position; locator means for sensing the position of the drill bit in the collet and rotating the collet an amount sufficient to position the point of the drill bit for proper contact with the grinding wheel; means for then moving the carrier from its drill bit receiving position into its drill bit inserting position, said drill bit being aligned with the drill bit holder when the carrier is in its drill bit inserting position; means for then moving the collet endwise an amount sufficient to insert the drill bit into the drill holder and opening the collet to release the drill bit from the collet; means for moving the carrier back into its drill bit receiving position, for receiving another drill bit; a bushing for surrounding and supporting the drill bit while it is being rotated; and a support for the bushing that is movable, for axial movement of the bushing, between a position in which the drill bit is in the bushng and a retracted position in which said drill bit and bushing are spaced out from the drill bit point, such movement of the bushing and its support occurring in a space occupied by a portion of the conveyor when the conveyor is extended, wherein the retraction of the conveyor opens the space for movement of the bushing and its support through the space. 19. Mechanism according to claim 18, wherein the locator means includes a stylus positioned to enter a flute of the drill bit, and means for sensing a predetermined position of the stylus in the flute and stopping the rotation of the collet in response to the stylus reaching such predetermined position. 20. Mechanism according to claim 19, wherein the stylus is positioned generally vertically above the drill bit and it falls by gravity into the flute of the drill bit. 21. Mechanism according to claim 20, comprising a support for the stylus mounted for pivotal movement about a horizontal axis in response to the stylus dropping into the drill bit flute, and wherein said means for sensing a predetermined position of the stylus includes the stylus support. 22. Mechanism according to claim 21, wherein said means for sensing the predetermined position of the stylus includes a sensor for sensing a position of a portion of the stylus support. 23. Mechanism according to claim 22, wherein the stylus support includes a generally horizontal arm from which the stylus depends, means mounting such arm for pivotal movement about a generally horizontal axis spaced from the stylus, and a generally vertical portion depending from said arm at a location between the stylus and the pivotal axis, and wherein said means for sensing the predetermined position of the stylus includes a sensor which senses position of a portion of said vertical member relative to said sensor. 24. Mechanism according to claim 23, further comprising pusher means extendible against said generally vertical member, in a direction to cause an upward swing movement of the support arm for the stylus, moving the stylus upwardly out of the way of the bushing and its support, during movement of the bushing and its support between the two positions. 25. Mechanism for feeding drill bits one at a time into a drill bit holder of a drill bit sharpener which includes a grinding wheel, comprising: a drill bit carrier movable between a drill bit receiving position and a drill bit inserting position, said carrier including a collet for receiving the shank end of a drill bit when the carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, and means for rotating the collet in position about the drill bit axis; means for inserting a drill bit into the collet when the drill bit carrier is in its drill bit receiving position and closing the collet to grip said drill bit; locator means for sensing the position of the drill bit in the collet and rotating the collet an amount sufficient to position the point of the drill bit for proper contact with the grinding wheel; means for then moving the carrier from its drill bit receiving position into its drill bit inserting position, said drill bit being aligned with the drill bit holder when the carrier is in its drill bit inserting positions; means for then moving the collet endwise an amount sufficient to insert the drill bit into the drill holder and opening the collet to release the drill bit from the collet; means for moving the carrier back into its drill bit receiving position, for receiving another drill bit; wherein the means for inserting a drill bit into the collet includes a conveyor for moving the drill bit into a position of spaced axial alignment with the collet, and pushrod means extendible against the point end of the drill bit, for moving the drill bit endwise from such position toward the collet, and its shank end into the collet; wherein the conveyor is movable in a direction generally perpendicular to the position of the center line axis of the collet when the carrier is in its drill bit receiving position, between an extended position in which a drill bit to be installed into the collet is in a position of spaced axial alignment with the collet, and a retracted position spaced laterally back away from the extended position; wherein the locator means includes a bushing and a bushing support which have a retracted position in which the bushing is coaxial with the collet, and is spaced axially away from the collet a distance sufficient to allow the conveyor, when it is extended, to move into the axial space between the collet and the bushing; wherein the bushing and its support are extendible toward a drill bit in the collet an amount sufficient to allow the point end portion of a drill bit in the collet to enter through the bushing and project outwardly beyond the bushing; and wherein during such extension the bushing and its support move through the space vacated by the conveyor when it moves back from its extended position into its retracted position. 26. Mechanism according to claim 25, wherein the locator means includes a stylus positioned to enter a flute of the drill bit, in the region of the drill bit which projects out from the bushing, when the bushing is in its extended position, and means for sensing a predetermined position of the stylus in the flute and stopping rotation of the collet in response to the stylus reaching such predetermined position. 27. Mechanism according to claim 26, wherein the stylus is positioned generally vertically above the drill bit and it falls by gravity into the flute. 28. Mechanism according to claim 27, comprising mechanism for lifting the stylus above the drill bit and holding it in such position during movement of the bushing between its retracted and extended positions, so that the stylus will collide with the drill bit during such movement. 