A system for controlling manufacturing systems having workstations and tools using a Limis system to operate the controllers for the tools. Limis systems use an active transceiver (AT) and one or more passive transceivers (PT). The PT's are attached to the moving parts of the tools, the raw materials, work pieces and other tools. The Pt's communicate with the AT's by coded EMR, light and sound transmission.
Claims Now, having described the invention, what is claimed is: 1. In a monitoring and control system for manfacturing goods using at least one tool means having at least one of moving and movable parts, the combination comprising: unitary, self-contained passive transceiver (PT) means including antenna means attached to one of the tool means and at least a portion of the said moving or movable parts of the tool means, said PT means comprising computing means having: (a) encodable and recodable permanent memory means adapted to be encoded and recoded by means for encoding and recoding said memory means on receipt of encoding and recoding signals from active transceiver (AT) means. (b) means for encoding and recoding said memory means connected to encode and recode said memory means (c) transmitter means adapted to transmit at least one identification signal to said AT means on receipt of an interrogation signal; and in association with the tool means at least one AT means comprising (a) preprogrammed computing means including computer memory means to calculate the location of the at least one of movable and moving portions of the tool menas, work piece means, raw material means and another tool means and utilizing the calculated location of the at least one of movable and moving portions of the tool means in calculating and signaling the next position of at least one of tool means, and the moving and/or movable parts of said tool means. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein communication between athe AT and the PT is via microwave frequency transmission. 3. The monitoring and control system of claim 1 wherein the PT means includes a sensor means. 4. The monitoring and control system of claim 3 wherein the PT means includes integral sensor means including sensor output means selected from the group consisting of pressure, light, temperature, ion and chemistry sensors. 5. The monitoring and control system of claim 4 wherein the PT is adapted to transmit the output of the sensor output means to said AT means. 6. The monitoring and control system of claim 5 wherein the output of the sensor means received by the AT means is utilized by the AT computing means in calculating movement of a controller means. 7. The monitoring and control system of claim 3 wherein the PT means includes a charge coupled device. 8. The monitoring and control system of claim 1 wherein the computing means includes permanent and alterable memory means. 9. The monitoring and control system of claim 8 wherein the computing means includes ROM and RAM memory means. 10. The monitoring and control system of claim 8 wherein the permanent memory means includes EEPROM means. 11. The monitoring and control system of claim 8 wherein the permanent memory means includes EAPROM means. 12. The monitoring and control system of claim 8 wherein the permanent memory means includes alterable PROM means. 13. The monitoring and control system of claim 1 wherein the antenna means is a phased array antenna. 14. The monitoring and control system of claim 1 wherein the antenna means is a virtual antenna. 15. The monitoring and control system of claim 1 wherein the antenna means is a dipole antenna. 16. The monitoring and control system of claim 1 wherein the antenna means includes a relay repeater. 17. In a monitoring and control system for manufacturing goods using at least one tool means having at least one of moving and movable parts, the combination comprising: unitary, self-contained passive transceiver (PT) means including antenna means attached to one of the tool means and at least a portion of the said moving or movable parts of the tool means, said PT means comprising computing means having: (a) encodable and recodable permanent memory adapted to be encoded and recoded by means for encoding and recoding said memory means on receipt of encoding and recoding signals from active transceiver (AT) means (b) means for encoding and recoding said memory means connected to encode and recode said memory means (c) transmitter means adapted to transmit at least one identification signal to said AT means on receipt of an interrogation signal; (d) preprogrammed nonerasable computing memory means; and in association with the tool means at least one AT means comprising: (a) preprogrammed computing means including computer memory means to calculate the location of the at least one of movable and moving portions of the tool means in spatial relationship to at least one of the tool means, a work piece, raw material and another tool means, and utilizing the calculated location of the at least one of movable and moving portions of the tool means in calculating and signalling the next position of at least one controller means. 18. The monitoring and control system of claim 17 wherein the antenna includes a relay repeater. 19. The monitoring and control system of claim 17 wherein the at least one controller operates manufacturing devices selected from the group consisting of sorter-counter means, drilling means, grinding means, cutting means and coating means. 20. The monitoring and control system of claim 17 wherein the AT means is preprogrammed to compute the location of at least one of raw material, work piece and other tool means by calculation of PT signal attenuation. 