A laser beam combiner housing is connected to a light pipe distribution system, and has a first beam path established for a principal lasing beam passing through an inlet aperture to an outlet aperture connected to the light distribution system. An internal mirror face transversely intercepts the first beam path and is aligned with a second laser beam path, so that the second laser beam will establish a line of incidence with the reflective mirror, and the corresponding line of reflection of said second laser beam will be collinear with the first laser beam path. The second laser beam is created by a low power visible spectrum laser generating unit, so that the light distribution pipes and corresponding reflective mirrors may be accurately aligned with the principal lasing beam path. The housing is also provided with cooling fluid to create controlled environment for the principal lasing beam.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laser beam combiner, comprising: (a) a box-like housing including a first laser inlet aperture and a laser outlet aperture defining a linear first beam path; and a second laser inlet aperture located about an axis angled to said first beam path; (b) a laser mirror mounted in said housing, including a front reflective face obliquely intercepting said first beam path and angled with respect to said axis to define a non-linear second beam path, said second beam path comprising a line of incidence and a line of reflection, said line of incidence collinear with said axis and said line of reflection collinear with said first beam path through said laser outlet aperture; and (c) a tooling plug, removably located centrally within said laser outlet aperture, said plug having a central hole substantially smaller than said laser outlet aperture. 2. The laser beam combiner of claim 1, wherein said first laser inlet aperture and said laser outlet aperture are in line with one another, and said mirror has a rear face and mirror means for passing a laser beam through said mirror from said rear face to said front reflective face. 3. The laser entry box of claim 1, wherein said housing includes means for supplying a conditional environment fluid to the interior of said housing, said fluid being freely ducted from said housing through said laser outlet aperture. 4. The laser beam combiner of claim 3, wherein said fluid is a cooling gas. 5. The laser beam combiner of claim 1, further comprising first and second laser beams corresponding to said first and second laser inlet apertures, said second laser beam comprising laser light in the visible spectrum. 6. The laser beam combiner of claim 1, further comprising a second mirror mounted in said housing, said second mirror located with respect to said second laser inlet aperture and said laser mirror so that said second laser beam path is coextensive with a line of incidence and a line of reflection of said second mirror, and said line of incidence of said laser mirror is collinear with said line of reflection of said second mirror. 