A robotic mechanism comprising a chassis having a first side and an opposite second side, a first leg member rotatably coupled to the chassis proximate the first side and a second leg member rotatably coupled to the chassis proximate the second side. The first leg member and the second leg member being of generally spiral shape. The first leg member and the second leg member rotating generally about a common axis. The chassis having a center of mass lying below the common axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic mechanism comprising: a chassis having a first side, an opposite second side and a center of mass; a first leg member rotatably coupled to the chassis proximate the first side, the first leg member being of generally spiral shape; and a second leg member rotatably coupled to the chassis proximate the second side, the second leg member being of generally spiral shape, wherein a portion of the first leg member and a portion of the second leg member are structured to engage a surface, wherein the portion of the first leg member has a center of curvature and the portion of the second leg member has a center of curvature, and wherein the center of mass of the chassis is disposed below the center of curvature of the first leg member and the center of curvature of the second leg member. 2. The robotic mechanism of claim 1 wherein the first leg member and the second leg member rotate generally about a common axis and wherein the center of mass of the chassis is disposed below the common axis. 3. The robotic mechanism of claim 1 wherein the first leg member and the second leg member are formed from an elastically compliant material. 4. The robotic mechanism of claim 1 wherein the first leg member includes a first end and a second end, the first end being rotatably coupled to the chassis; and wherein the first leg member is generally shaped such that the distance from the first end to a point on the first leg increases monotonically as the point describes the leg profile starting from the first end and ending at the second end. 5. The robotic mechanism of claim 4 wherein the distance from the first end to a point on the first leg member remains constant over a portion of the first leg member as the point describes the profile of the portion moving along the portion from the first end of the first leg member toward the second end of the first leg member. 6. The robotic mechanism of claim 4 wherein the distance from the first end to a point on the first leg member monotonically decreases over a portion of the first leg member as the point describes the profile of the portion moving along the portion from the first end of the first leg member toward the second end of the first leg member. 7. The robotic mechanism of claim 4 wherein the second leg member includes a first end and a second end, the first end being rotatably coupled to the chassis; and wherein the second leg member is generally shaped such that the distance from the first end to a point on the second leg member increases monotonically as the point describes the leg profile starting from the first end and ending at the second end. 8. The robotic mechanism of claim 7 wherein the distance from the first end to a point on the second leg member remains constant over a portion of the second leg member as the point describes the profile of the portion moving along the portion from the first end of the second leg member toward the second end of the second leg member. 9. The robotic mechanism of claim 7 wherein the distance from the first end to a point on the second leg member monotonically decreases over a portion of the second leg member as the point describes the profile of the portion moving along the portion from the first end of the second leg member toward the second end of the second leg member. 10. A robotic mechanism comprising: a chassis having a first side and an opposite second side; a first leg member rotatably coupled to the chassis proximate the first side; and a second leg member rotatably coupled to the chassis proximate the second side, wherein the first leg member and the second leg member are structured upon rotation to move the chassis from a first position in which the chassis is resting on a surface to a second position in which the chassis is positioned a distance above said surface, and wherein the first leg member is of a generally spiral shape and the second leg member is of a generally spiral shape. 11. A method of actuating a robotic mechanism, said method comprising: rotating a first leg member with respect to a chassis; rotating a second leg member with respect to said chassis; and responsive to said rotation of said first leg member and said rotation of said second leg member, effectuating a movement of said chassis, wherein said first leg member is rotatably coupled to said chassis proximate a first side, wherein said second leg member is rotatably coupled to said chassis proximate a second side, and wherein said first leg member and said second leg member are of generally spiral shape and rotate generally about a common axis that lies above a center of mass of said chassis. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the first leg member and the second leg member are rotated at a constant speed. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the first leg member and the second leg member are rotated at a varying speed. 14. The method of claim 11 further comprising orienting the first and second leg members out of phase with respect to each other. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of orienting comprises moving one of the first leg member and the second leg member about 180 degrees out of phase with the other of the first leg member and the second leg member. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of orienting comprises moving both the first leg member and the second leg member such that the first leg member and the second leg member are about 180 degrees out of phase with respect to each other. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of rotating the first leg member comprises rotating at a constant speed and wherein the step of rotating the second leg member comprises rotating the second leg member at a constant speed. 18. The method of claim 14 wherein the step of rotating the first leg member comprises rotating the first leg member at a varying speed and wherein the step of rotating the second leg member comprises rotating the second leg member at a varying speed. 19. The method of claim 11 wherein said movement comprises a hopping motion. 20. The method of claim 14 wherein said movement comprises bipedal locomotion. 