A linear motor is movable along a substantially flat stator. Electrical, mechanical and pneumatic drive sources are coupled to the linear motor through an umbilical cord. A strain relief member, normally linked to the linear motor, is towed by the linear motor to the desired position along the platen. The strain relief member is then decoupled from the linear motor, and is magnetically (or vacuum) attracted and temporarily "locked" to the platen. A portion of the umbilical cord is clamped to the strain relief member at a point intermediate the ends thereof. The length of umbilical cord between the clamp and the linear motor hangs loosely to provide sufficient "play" between the strain relief member and the linear motor. The strain relief member, being "locked" to the platen isolates any pulling or pushing forces of the umbilical cord from being exerted upon the linear motor thereby enabling the linear motor to retain its precise position. The strain relief member is reconnected to the linear motor after the linear motor completes its function at the desired location and thereafter is towed to the next position by the linear motor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A linear motor system comprising: a stator having a substantially planar working surface formed of a magnetically attractive material; a linear motor assembly movable along said working surface and including at least one linear motor for generating a magnetic field which interacts with said stator for moving said linear motor assembly relative to said stator to a predetermined location along the stator; elongated umbilical cord means extending between a power source and said linear motor for coupling power to said linear motor; strain relief means; means for clamping said umbilical cord means to said strain relief means at a location intermediate the ends of said umbilical cord means; said strain relief means including means for attracting said strain relief means to said working surface; and means for releasably coupling said strain relief means to said linear motor assembly, whereby said means for attracting holds said strain relief means to said stator when said strain relief means is decoupled from said linear motor assembly to substantially isolate any pulling force of the umbilical cord means from said linear motor assembly. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein a portion of the umbilical cord means extending between said clamping means and the linear motor is of a length sufficient to provide sufficient play between said linear motor assembly and said strain relief means to prevent the said portion of said umbilical cord means from being tautly drawn between said strain relief means and said linear motor when said strain relief means is decoupled rom said linear motor. 3. The linear motor system of claim 1 wherein said umbilical cord means includes electrical cable means. 4. The linear motor system of claim 1 wherein said umbilical cord means includes electrical cable means and conduit means for conveying pneumatic power to the linear motor. 5. The linear motor system of claim 1 wherein said umbilical cord means includes electrical cable means and conduit means for conveying pneumatic power to the linear motor and mechanical conduit means for conveying mechanical energy to said linear motor assembly. 6. A linear motor system according to claim 1 wherein the working surface of said stator faces downwardly; a work surface for receiving work pieces arranged a spaced distance beneath said working surface; said linear motor assembly being magnetically attracted to said working surface and suspending downwardly therefrom and toward said work surface. 7. The linear motor system of claim 6 further comprising means arranged on said linear motor assembly for releasably carrying a work piece to be accurately placed upon the work surface. 8. The linear motor system of claim 1 wherein said linear motor assembly further comprises a platform supporting said linear motor; said platform having an opening; said strain relief means being slidably movable within said opening between a first position displaced from said stator and a second position sufficiently close to said stator to become secured thereto by magnetic attraction; and said means for releasably coupling said strain relief means being mounted on said platform and normally maintaining said strain relief means in said first position for moving said strain relief means to said second position. 9. The linear motor system of claim 8 wherein said strain relief means is provided with positioning openings; pin means on said platform movable between an engaging position engaging said positioning openings and a displaced position displaced from said openings; and said means for releasably coupling further comprises moving means normally maintaining said pin means in said first position for selectively moving said pin means to said second position. 10. The linear motor system of claim 9 wherein said pin means comprises a mounting plate having a plurality of pins arranged thereon; said moving means further comprising cylinder means mounted between said platform means and said mounting plate for moving said mounting plate respectively toward and away from said strain relief means when moving said pin means between said engaging and displaced positions. 11. The linear motor system of claim 8 wherein the opening receiving said strain relief means is larger than the strain relief means to provide sufficient play between said strain relief means and said linear motor assembly to permit said strain relief means to isolate a force exerted by said umbilical cord means from said linear motor assembly. 12. The linear motor system of claim 10 wherein said pins are tapered pins having their wider ends secured to said plate, the shape of said pin receiving openings conforming to said tapered pins. 13. The linear motor system of claim 8 wherein said moving means for releasably coupling said strain relief means further comprises cylinder means for moving said pins between said engaging and displaced positions. 14. The linear motor system of claim 9 wherein said moving means comprises a pair of cylinder means for moving said pins between said engaging and displayed positions. 15. The linear motor system of claim 13 wherein said cylinder means further comprises a piston rod having a substantially T-shaped free end; said strain relief means having an opening for receiving said T-shaped free end and substantially conforming to said T-shaped free end; said opening receiving said T-shaped free end being larger than said T-shaped free end to permit said strain relief means to experience sufficient play relative to said piston rod to isolate said linear motor assembly from any force due to said umbilical cord means. 16. The linear motor system of claim 15 wherein said T-shaped free end has a tapered conical-shaped surface; said opening having a conforming tapering surface cooperating with the tapered surface of said T-shaped free end. 17. The linear motor system of claim 1 wherein said means for attracting comprises magnetic means. 18. The linear motor system of claim 17 wherein said magnetic means comprises at least one permanent magnet. 19. The linear motor system of claim 17 wherein said magnetic means comprises at least one electromagnet. 20. The linear motor system of claim 1 wherein said means for attracting comprises vacuum means for holding said strain relief means against said working surface. 21. The linear motor system of claim 20 wherein said vacuum means includes a vacuum source coupled to an opening in said strain relief means facing said working surface through a conduit forming part of said umbilical cord. 22. The linear motor system of claim 21 further comprising resilient, compressible means surrounding the marginal portion of said opening to enhance the vacuum attraction of said strain relief means to said working surface. 23. The linear motor system of claim 22 wherein said resilient, compressible means comprises an O-ring. 24. A method for operating a linear motor system comprising the steps of providing: a stator having a working surface; a linear motor movable along said working surface, at least one power source and umbilical cord means for coupling said linear motor to said power source; strain relief means attractable to said stator and coupling means for coupling said strain relief means to said linear motor in a first state and decoupling said strain relief means from said linear motor when in second state; clamping means for clamping said umbilical cord means to said strain relief means at a location along said umbilical cord means a predetermined distance from said linear motor; said method further comprising the steps of: normally maintaining said coupling means in said first state; applying signals to said linear motor to move said linear motor to a predetermined position along said stator, whereby said strain relief means is towed by said linear motor; and operating said coupling means to said second state when said linear motor reaches said predetermined position enabling said strain relief means to become attracted to said stator to isolate said linear motor from any forces due to said umbilical cord means. 25. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of attracting the strain relief means to the working surface by drawing a vacuum through an opening in the strain relief means facing said working surface. 26. The method of claim 24 further comprising the step of attracting the strain relief means to the working surface by providing a magnetic means in said strain relief means which is attracted to said working surface. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the magnetic means is an electromagnet and said method further comprises the step of energizing the electromagnet when the strain relief means is decoupled from the linear motor. 28. The method of claim 24 further including providing: a work piece supporting surface spaced from said stator; operating means on said linear motor for operating on said work piece supporting surface; said method further comprising the steps of: providing signals to said operating means through said umbilical cord means to perform a function upon said work piece supporting surface; moving said strain relief means away from said stator; and decoupling said strain relief means to said linear motor preparatory to moving the linear motor to another position along said stator. 29. The method of claim 24 wherein the step of operating the coupling means to said second state further comprises the step of moving said strain relief means toward said stator to enable said strain relief means to become locked to said stator due to the attraction of said strain relief means to said stator. 30. The method of claim 24 further comprising the steps of providing: positioning openings in said strain relief means; and positioning pins mounted upon a movable platform; said method further comprising the steps of: normally maintaining the positioning pins in associated positioning openings; and moving the positioning pins away from said positioning openings when said strain relief means is moved against said platen. 31. A drive system comprising: a substantially planar working surface; a drive assembly movable along said working surface and including at least one motor for moving said drive assembly along the planar working surface; elongated umbilical cord means extending between a power source and said motor for coupling power to said motor; strain relief means; means for securing said umbilical cord means to said strain relief means at a location intermediate the ends of said umbilical cord means; said strain relief means including means for selectively attracting said strain relief means to said working surface; and means for releasably coupling said strain relief means to said drive assembly, enabling said means for selectively attracting to hold said strain relief means against said working surface. 