A robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus includes a base. A multi-axis robot is mounted on the base. The robot includes an arm. A roller hemming head is mounted on an end of the arm for roller hemming. A slide mechanism is mounted for multi-directional movement on the base. A support is mounted on the slide mechanism. An anvil is supported on the support. A registration member is integral with the support and is engagable by the roller hemming head. The robot arm is operable to manipulate the roller hemming head into engagement with the registration member, and subsequent movement of the robot arm moves the support on the slide mechanism, thereby adjusting the position of the anvil relative to a workpiece to be hemmed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus comprising: a base; a multi-axis robot mounted on said base, said robot including an arm; a roller hemming head mounted on an end of said arm for roller hemming; a slide mechanism mounted for multi-directional movement on said base; a support mounted on said slide mechanism; an anvil supported on said support; and a registration member integral with said support, said registration member being engagable by said roller hemming head; wherein said robot arm is operable to manipulate said roller hemming head into engagement with said registration member, and subsequent movement of said robot arm moves said support on said slide mechanism, thereby adjusting the position of said anvil relative to a workpiece to be hemmed. 2. The robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus of claim 1, including a compliance unit cooperable with said registration member for detecting the location of said anvil relative to said workpiece to be hemmed. 3. The robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein said roller hemming head includes a clamp for securely gripping said anvil. 4. The robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein said support includes at least one mount to interchangeably mount said anvil on said support. 5. The robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus of claim 4, wherein said support includes an upper set of hooks and a lower set of hooks that define said mount, and said anvil includes an upper set of catches engagable with said upper set of hooks and a lower set of catches engagable with said lower set of hooks. 6. The robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein said roller hemming head includes at least one of a pre-hem roller, a final hem roller for hemming a flat hem, and a final hem roller for hemming a rope hem. 7. The robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus of claim 6, wherein said registration member includes a receiver, and one of said rollers is insertable into said receiver, whereby insertion of said roller into said receiver engages said robot arm with said registration member. 8. The robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus of claim 1, wherein said slide mechanism includes a first track mounted on said base, first slides slidably engaged with said first track, a second track mounted on said first slides, and second slides slidably engaged with said second track; said support being mounted on said second slides. 9. The robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus of claim 8, wherein said second track is generally perpendicular to said first track. 10. The robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus of claim 8, wherein said first track includes a set of parallel rails and said second track includes a set of parallel rails. 11. The robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus of claim 8, including rail brakes connected to first and second slides. 12. The robotic wheelhouse hemming apparatus of claim 8, including stops that limit the movement of said first and second slides. 13. A method of robotically hemming a wheelhouse, the method comprising the steps of: mounting a multi-axis robot on a base, said robot including an arm; mounting a roller hemming head on an end of the arm for roller hemming; mounting a slide mechanism for multi-directional movement on the base; mounting a support on said slide mechanism, said support integrally including a registration member that is engagable by said roller hemming head; supporting an anvil on said support; and operating said robot arm to manipulate said roller hemming head into engagement with said registration member; adjusting the position of said anvil relative to a workpiece to be hemmed by moving said robot arm to move said support on said slide mechanism. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said slide mechanism includes a first track mounted on said base, first slides slidably engaged with said first track, a second track mounted on said first slides, and second slides slidably engaged with said second track, said support being mounted on said second slides; and said method further including the steps of sliding said support along said first track to move said support toward and away from said workpiece, and sliding said support along said second track to move said support along said workpiece. 15. The method of claim 13, including the step of detecting the location of said anvil relative to said workpiece with a compliance unit that is cooperable with said registration member. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein said support includes an upper set of hooks and a lower set of hooks, and said anvil includes an upper set of catches engagable with said upper set of hooks and a lower set of catches engagable with said lower set of hooks; and the step of supporting an anvil on said support includes engaging said upper catches with said upper hooks and engaging said lower catches with said lower hooks. 