The invention provides extraction columns for the purification of an analyte (e.g., a biological macromolecule, such as a peptide, protein or nucleic acid) from a sample solution, as well as methods for making and using such columns. The columns typically include a bed of extraction media positioned in the column between two frits. In some embodiments, the extraction columns employ modified pipette tips as column bodies. In some embodiments, the method involves adjusting the head pressure of the column during the process, or otherwise controlling or regulating the head pressure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated parallel method for passing liquid through a plurality of pipette tip columns comprising the steps of: a) providing a plurality of pipette tip columns, wherein each column is comprised of: i. a column body having an open upper end for communication with a pump, a first open lower end for the uptake and dispensing of fluid, and an open passageway between the upper and lower ends of the column body, ii. a bottom frit, wherein the bottom frit is at or near the open lower end of the pipette tip column, iii. an optional top frit positioned between the bottom frit and the open upper end of the column body, iv. a bed of hydrated gel resin media, v. a storage liquid, wherein the storage liquid is comprised of a water miscible solvent having a viscosity greater than that of water, and vi. a pump sealingly attached to the open upper end of the column, wherein the pump is comprised of a piston, and wherein actuation of the pump piston causes liquid to be drawn into or expelled from the bed of hydrated gel resin media; b) contacting said open lower ends of the columns with a liquid; c) actuating the pump piston to draw the liquid into the open lower ends of the columns and through the bed of hydrated gel resin media, wherein the volume of liquid drawn into the columns is 250 .mu.l or less and wherein the pump piston displacement is 20 to 75 .mu.l greater than the volume of liquid drawn into the column; and d) actuating the pump piston to expel the liquid through the bed of hydrated gel resin media and out of the open lower end of the columns. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the water miscible solvent has a boiling point greater than 150.degree. C. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said water miscible solvent comprises 50% of the storage liquid. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the water miscible solvent comprises a diol, triol, or polyethylene glycol of n=2 to n=150. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the water miscible solvent is glycerol. 6. An automated parallel method for passing liquid through a plurality of pipette tip columns comprising the steps of: a) providing a plurality of pipette tip columns, wherein each column is comprised of: i. a column body having an open upper end for communication with a pump, a first open lower end for the uptake and dispensing of fluid, and an open passageway between the upper and lower ends of the column body, ii. a bottom frit, wherein the bottom frit is at or near the open lower end of the pipette tip column, iii. an optional top frit positioned between the bottom frit and the open upper end of the column body, iv. a bed of resin media, and v. a pump sealingly attached to the open upper end of the column, wherein the pump is comprised of a piston, and wherein actuation of the pump piston causes liquid to be drawn into or expelled from the bed of resin media; b) contacting said open lower ends of the columns with a liquid; c) actuating the pump piston to draw the liquid into the open lower ends of the columns and through the bed of resin media, wherein the volume of liquid drawn into the columns is 250 .mu.l or less wherein the pump piston displacement is 20 to 75 .mu.l greater than the volume of liquid drawn into the column; and d) actuating the pump piston to expel the liquid through the bed of resin media and out of the open lower end of the columns. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the bed resin media is agarose or sepharose. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the bed of resin media is further comprised of an affinity binding agent. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein the analyte is a protein. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the method is performed simultaneously on at least 8 and at most 96 pipette tip columns. 