A plurality of chamber are arranged about a transport chamber. The linear transport chamber may include a linear track supporting robot arms. The robot arms transport substrates to and from the chambers. Each chamber includes a plurality of evaporators, each controlled independently. Each substrate positioned in the chamber is coated from a plurality of the evaporators, such that by controlling the operation of each evaporator independently the formation of the layers and the concentration gradient of each layer can be precisely controlled.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A substrate processing system for fabricating solar cells, comprising: a front end module transporting cassettes holding substrates therein; a loadlock module coupled to the front end module and having mechanism for loading substrates from the cassettes onto the loadlock; a transport chamber; and, a plurality of processing chambers coupled to the transport chamber, each having a plurality of substrate supports and a plurality of evaporators, the evaporators of each chamber divided into subgroup, each subgroup being configured to deposit materials onto one substrate. 2. The substrate processing system of claim 1, wherein the transport chamber comprises a linear track and transport robot arms riding on the linear track. 3. The substrate processing system of claim 1, wherein deposition from each evaporator is configured to be controlled independently of other evaporators. 4. The substrate processing system of claim 1, wherein each of substrate supports comprises a substrate heater. 5. The substrate processing system of claim 1, wherein each processing chamber comprises a plurality of substrate supports. 6. The substrate processing system of claim 5, wherein each substrate support is positioned so as to receive deposition from a set of four evaporator sources comprising at least one evaporator to deposit copper, at least one evaporator to deposit gallium, at least one evaporator to deposit indium and at least one evaporator to deposit a selenium. 7. The substrate processing system of claim 5, wherein each substrate support is directly opposed by one or more uniformly spaced sets of four evaporator sources, wherein each set is comprised of one evaporator to deposit copper, one evaporator to deposit gallium, one evaporator to deposit indium and one evaporator deposit selenium. 8. The substrate processing system of claim 1, wherein each of the evaporators comprises a crucible within a main body, a heater provided about the main body, an injection opening, and a control valve in thermal contact with the main body. 9. The substrate processing system of claim 1, wherein each of the chambers comprises an evaporation head housing the evaporators, wherein the evaporator head further comprises shutters for controlling evaporation material reaching the substrates. 10. The substrate processing system of claim 1, wherein each of the substrate supports is rotatable. 11. The substrate processing chamber of claim 1, wherein each of the processing chambers is provided with the same material composition. 12. The substrate processing system of claim 9, wherein each of the evaporators comprises a valve adjustable for controlling the amount of evaporated material leaving the evaporator. 13. The substrate processing system of claim 1, wherein each of the evaporators comprises a valve adjustable for controlling the amount of evaporated material leaving the evaporator. 14. The substrate processing system of claim 13, wherein each of the chambers further comprises shutters adjustable for controlling evaporated material reaching the substrate. 