A laser system having members disposed for rotation and translation and having an X-axis carriage and a Y-axis arm translated on a fixed linear screw and a Z-axis rotation unit including mirrors and pneumatic table providing the capability for three-sided machining of a vehicle chassis.
Claims I claim: 1. A laser system comprising: laser means providing a laser beam along a fixed generally horizontal first axis; means for redirecting said laser beam to impinge on a workpiece at a desired location thereon and including; means disposed for rotation about and translation along said fixed generally horizontal first axis for redirecting said laser beam along a second axis, said means rotating on a non-rotatable base; laser head means arranged to receive said laser beam along said second axis and to cause it to impinge on said workpiece at said desired location. 2. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said means disposed for rotation and translation comprises a single flat mirror. 3. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said laser means comprises means for receiving said laser beam along a third axis and for redirecting it along said fixed first axis. 4. A laser system according to claim 3 and wherein said means for receiving said laser beam comprises a beam director which directs said laser beam in a selectable one of two directions. 5. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said laser head means comprises a cutting head including two flat mirrors and a concentrating lens. 6. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said laser head means comprises a welding head including a flat mirror and a concentrating mirror. 7. A laser system according to claim 5 and wherein said laser head means includes two mirror elements which rotate about two generally orthogonal axes. 8. A laser system according to claim 6 and wherein said laser head means includes two mirror elements which rotate about two generally orthogonal axes. 9. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein the optical path length along said fixed first axis can greatly exceed the length of the optical path from said fixed first axis to said desired location. 10. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said optical path length from said laser means to said laser head means is considerably longer than the optical path length from said laser head means to said desired location. 11. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said means disposed for rotation and translation comprise an x axis carriage, a y axis arm and a z axis rotation unit. 12. A laser system according to claim 11 and wherein said x axis carriage translates on a fixed linear screw thereby to produce a smooth and rigid motion. 13. A laser system according to claim 11 and wherein said y axis arm translates on a fixed linear screw thereby to produce a smooth and rigid motion. 14. A laser system according to claim 11 and wherein said z axis rotation unit comprises a linear screw displaced from a center of the z axis rotation thereby to produce a smooth and rigid rotation. 15. A laser system according to claim 1 wherein said means for redirecting comprises first and second separate means for redirecting and wherein said laser means comprises a single laser. 16. A laser system according to claim 1 wherein said means for redirecting comprises first, second, third and fourth separate means for redirecting, wherein said laser means comprises a single laser and wherein said first and second separate means for redirecting are located above said third and fourth means for redirecting. 17. A laser system according to claim 15 and wherein each separate means for redirecting comprises three mirrors and wherein said laser means comprises a single beam director. 18. A laser system according to claim 16 and wherein each separate means for redirection comprises three mirrors and wherein said laser means comprises three beam directors. 19. A laser system according to claim 1 and wherein said non-rotatable base comprises a fixed elongate track and wherein said means arranged for rotation and translation also comprise at least one carriage movable along said elongate track parallel to said fixed first axis. 20. A laser system according to claim 19 and wherein said at least one carriage comprises a plurality of carriages and said means arranged for rotation and translation includes means for time sharing of said laser beam among a plurality of laser head means, each associated with one of said plurality of carriages. 