A robotic machine used in the automatic assembly of mechanical and electrical components is configured to assemble heavy parts at high speeds and is modular; there are one to four degrees of freedom. A motor assembly machine has X, Y, and Z movable axes and a rotational movement .theta. about the Z axis; a gripper or tool is mounted on the lower end of the .theta. axis. The vertical carriage has a rigid elongated housing which is the support structure for the .theta. axis components.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A modular robotic assembly machine having three mutually perpendicular axes and a rotational movement about the third axis comprising: a first carriage supported on a frame, a second carriage supported on said first carriage, a third carriage supported on said second carriage, and drive means for moving said carriages linearly along the respective mutually perpendicular axes; said third carriage including an elongated tubular housing having end plates between which a non-rotating lead screw is fastened, a plurality of way rods on one of said second and third carriages and, on the other, linear bearings on which said way rods ride, said lead screw and way rods and bearings being exterior to said elongated housing; a rotation plate that is mounted on one end plate and has a central hole, and rotation drive means comprising a drive motor supported on the other end plate which is connected through an axial hollow shaft to said rotation plate; gripper means for performing automatic assembly tasks attached to said rotation plate, the space between said elongated housing and hollow shaft, and the inside of said hollow shaft, serving as a conduit for electrical leads and pneumatic tubes and to receive a power cylinder on said gripper means; and a stand which supports said frame and has a horizontal assembly table. 2. The robotic machine of claim 1 wherein said second carriage has a base plate and said first-mentioned drive means includes another drive motor on said base plate and a rotatable ball nut coupled by a belt drive to move said lead screw and third carriage. 