Disclosed are methods and apparatus for inspecting a sub-resolution assist features (SRAF) on a reticle. A test flux measurement for a boundary area that encompasses a width and a length portion of a test SRAF is determined, and at least one reference flux measurement for one or more boundary areas of one or more reference SRAF's is determined. The test flux measurement is compared with the reference flux measurements. The comparison is used to then determine whether the test SRAF is undersized or oversized. If the test SRAF is determined to be oversized, it may then be determined whether the test SRAF is defective based on the comparison using a first threshold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inspecting a sub-resolution assist features (SRAF) on a reticle, comprising: (a) providing a test SRAF on a reticle; (b) determining a test flux measurement for a test boundary area that encompasses a width of the test SRAF and a length portion of the test SRAF and determining at least one reference flux measurement for one or more reference boundary areas of one or more reference SRAF's, wherein each reference boundary area encompasses a width of each reference SRAF and a length portion of such each reference SRAF; (c) comparing the test flux measurement with the one or more reference flux measurement to determine whether the test SRAF is undersized or oversized; and (d) if the test SRAF is determined to be oversized, determining whether the test SRAF is defective based on the comparison using a first threshold. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: if the test SRAF is determined to be undersized, determining whether the test SRAF is defective based on the comparison using a second threshold that differs from the first threshold. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: inspecting the reticle using a decreased sensitivity for the test SRAF, as compared to a sensitivity that is used for other features of the reticle that do not include SRAF's. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: inspecting the reticle so as to exclude inspection of the test SRAF from the reticle inspection process. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein an absolute value of the first threshold and a design value is less than an absolute value of the second threshold. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference flux measurement is determined based on a design database. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more reference SRAF's are located on the reticle. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein at least two reference flux measurements are determined. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the boundary area and one or more reference boundaries are established based on a plurality of parameters from a design database. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the length portion of the test SRAF does not include ends of the test SRAF and the length portion of such each reference SRAF does not include the ends of such each reference SRAF. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the length portion of the test SRAF is no greater than about 90% of a design length of the test SRAF. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising a second SRAF, wherein determining the test flux measurement for the boundary area also encompasses a width of the second SRAF and a length portion of the second SRAF. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the boundary area has a width of no greater than about 200% of a test SRAF width and each reference boundary areas has a width of no greater than about 200% of such each reference SRAF width. 14. The method of claim 3, wherein determining a test flux measurement is performed separately from inspecting the reticle using the decreased sensitivity. 15. A computer readable medium containing program instructions for inspecting a sub-resolution assist features (SRAF) on a reticle, the computer readable medium comprising: (a) computer readable code for providing a test SRAF on a reticle; (b) computer readable code for determining a test flux measurement for a test boundary area that encompasses a width of the test SRAF and a length portion of the test SRAF and determining at least one reference flux measurement for one or more reference boundary areas of one or more reference SRAF's, wherein each reference boundary area encompasses a width of each reference SRAF and a length portion of such each reference SRAF; (c) computer readable code for comparing the test flux measurement with the one or more reference flux measurement to determine whether the test SRAF is undersized or oversized; and (d) computer readable code for determining, if the test SRAF is determined to be oversized, whether the oversized test SRAF is defective based on the comparison using a first threshold. 16. A system for inspecting a sub-resolution assist features (SRAF) on a reticle, comprising at least one memory and at least one processor that are configured to perform the following operations: (a) providing a test SRAF on a reticle; (b) determining a test flux measurement for a test boundary area that encompasses a width of the test SRAF and a length portion of the test SRAF and determining at least one reference flux measurement for one or more reference boundary areas of one or more reference SRAF's, wherein each reference boundary area encompasses a width of each reference SRAF and a length portion of such each reference SRAF; (c) comparing the test flux measurement with the one or more reference flux measurement to determine whether the test SRAF is undersized or oversized; and (d) if the test SRAF is determined to be oversized, determining whether the test SRAF is defective based on the comparison using a first threshold. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least one memory and at least one processor are further configured to, if the test SRAF is determined to be undersized, determining whether the test SRAF is defective based on the comparison using a second threshold that differs from the first threshold. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one memory and at least one processor are further configured to inspecting the reticle using a decreased sensitivity for the test SRAF, as compared to a sensitivity that is used for other features of the reticle that do not include SRAF's. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one memory and at least one processor are further configured to inspecting the reticle so as to exclude inspection of the test SRAF from the reticle inspection process. 20. The system of claim 17, wherein an absolute value of the first threshold and a design value is less than an absolute value of the second threshold. 