A buffered access system for loading and unloading media from a storage library system without interfering with the operation of the robotic arm within the storage library, while maintaining the security and integrity of the system, and increasing the overall storage capacity of the storage library. The buffered access system includes an automatic stack loader coupled to the exterior of the library module enabling the operator to stack multiple data cartridges to be input into the library module and to remove data storage cartridges automatically stacked in an output tray. The automatic stack loader retrieves and inserts the data storage cartridges in sequence from and into the library module through a cartridge access port to a turntable mechanism located in the interior of the library module. The turntable mechanism has a rotating platform which holds the data storage media cartridge to be transferred and is positioned by a servo motor to be properly aligned the cartridge with the automatic stack loader or robotic arm. The automatic stack loader and turntable mechanism are controlled by a library control unit which drives the two devices to operate together with the robot arm to transfer a data storage media cartridge between the automatic stack loader to a storage cell or other device within the library module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated library system for storing data using a plurality of data storage cartridges, the system comprising: a housing defining an interior cartridge storage area; a plurality of cartridge storage cells disposed within said storage area, each of said cartridge storage cells configured to store a data storage cartridge; buffer means for automatically transferring a selected cartridge between said interior storage area and a point outside said housing, said buffer means having an opening in said housing and a turntable mechanism disposed within said storage area proximate to said opening; and robot means disposed within said storage area for transporting said selected cartridge between said buffer means and one of said plurality of cartridge storage cells. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said buffer means further comprises: a stack loader coupled to an exterior of said housing proximate to said opening. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said stack loader comprises: receiving means for receiving and holding a stack of cartridges; and transport means for transporting a selected cartridge between said turntable mechanism and said receiving means through said opening in said housing. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said turntable mechanism comprises: a rotating platform configured to perform one of the following, receive a selected cartridge from said transport means, rotate said selected cartridge and provide said selected cartridge to said robot means, and receive a selected cartridge from said robot means, rotate said selected cartridge and provide said selected cartridge to said transport means. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising: controller means for controlling the operation of said buffer means. 6. The system of claim 3, wherein said stack of cartridges comprises an input stack of cartridges and wherein said receiving means comprises: a first receiving means positioned above said transport means, for receiving said input stack of cartridges and for sequentially providing the bottom-most cartridge of said input stack of cartridges to said transport means. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said stack of cartridges further comprises an output stack of cartridges and wherein said receiving means further comprises: a second receiving means located adjacent to said transport means, for receiving said selected cartridge from said transport means and for placing said selected cartridge in said output stack of cartridges. 8. The system of claim 4, wherein said turntable mechanism further comprises: drive means for rotating said rotating platform. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said drive means is a servo motor. 10. The system of claim 5, wherein said stack loader, said turntable mechanism, and said robot means are responsive to said controller means. 11. The system of claim 7, wherein said turntable mechanism comprises: a rotating platform configured to perform one of the following, receive a selected cartridge from said transport means, rotate said selected cartridge and provide said selected cartridge to said robot means, and receive a selected cartridge from said robot means, rotate said selected cartridge and provide said selected cartridge to said transport means. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising: controller means for controlling the operation of said buffer means. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein said turntable mechanism further comprises: drive means for rotating said rotating platform. 14. In an automated storage library system having an enclosed housing defining an interior cartridge storage area having a plurality of cartridge storage cells for holding data storage cartridges and having a robot mechanism for transporting a selected data storage cartridge within the storage area, a buffered access system for automatically transferring a selected data storage cartridge between the interior cartridge storage area and a point outside the automated storage library system, the buffered access system comprising: an opening in the housing; a stack loader coupled to an exterior of the housing proximate to said opening; and a turntable mechanism disposed within the storage area proximate to said opening. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising: controller means for controlling said stack loader, said turntable mechanism, and the robot mechanism. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said stack loader comprises: receiving means for receiving and holding a stack of cartridges. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said stack loader further comprises: transport means for transporting a selected cartridge between said turntable mechanism and said receiving means through said opening in said housing. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein said turntable mechanism comprises: a rotating platform configured to perform one of the following, receive a selected cartridge from said transport means, rotate said selected cartridge and provide said selected cartridge to the robot mechanism, and receive a selected cartridge from the robot mechanism, rotate said selected cartridge and provide said selected cartridge to said transport means. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein said stack of cartridges comprises an input stack of cartridges and an output stack of cartridges, and wherein said receiving means comprises: first receiving means positioned above said transport means, for receiving said input stack of cartridges and for sequentially providing the bottom-most cartridge of said input stack of cartridges to said transport means; and second receiving means located adjacent to said transport means, for receiving said selected cartridge from said transport means and for placing said selected cartridge in said output stack of cartridges. 20. In an automated storage library system having an enclosed housing defining an interior cartridge storage area having a plurality of cartridge storage cells for holding data storage cartridges and having a robot mechanism for transporting a selected data storage cartridge within the storage area, a buffered access system for automatically transferring a selected data storage cartridge between the interior cartridge storage area and a point outside the automated storage library system, the buffered access system comprising: an opening in the housing; a stack loader, coupled to an exterior of the housing proximate to said opening, said stack loader including first receiving means for receiving and holding an input stack of cartridges, second receiving means for receiving and holding an output stack of cartridges, and transport means for transporting a selected cartridge between the storage area and said first and second receiving means through said opening in the housing; a turntable mechanism, disposed within the storage area proximate to the opening, said turntable mechanism including a rotating platform configured to receive a selected cartridge from said transport means, rotate said selected cartridge and provide said selected cartridge to the robot mechanism, and to receive a selected cartridge from the robot mechanism, rotate said selected cartridge and provide said selected cartridge to said transport means, and drive means for rotating said rotating platform; and controller means for controlling said stack loader, said turntable mechanism, and the robot mechanism. 