A turn gate is used for receiving and supporting a plurality of wire segments that are successively guided laterally into contact with it by the robotic device during the assembly of the wire harness. The turn gate is positioned at bends in the wire harness and is configured so that each wire segment is positioned on a predetermined location on the inside radius of the curve.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A turn gate for receiving and supporting a plurality of wire segments at a bend in a wire harness assembled by a robot, the bend having an inner radius and an outer radius, the turn gate comprising: (a) a base inluding a finger; (b) a bracket on the base, the bracket having an outer end located adjacent to the outer end of the finger, defining an entry gap with the finger through which the wire segments are received; (c) a guide member, interconnected between the bracket and the base and extending across the entry gap, for directing each wire segment received through the entry gap to the inner radius of the bend, wherein the guide member is a cord, one end of the cord being fixed to the bracket; and (d) a reel housed within the base, the other end of the cord being coiled around the reel; the reel including means for maintaining tension in an extended portion of the cord. 2. The turn gate of claim 1, wherein the tensioning means maintains a relatively constant tension in the cord. 3. The turn gate of claim 2, wherein the tensioning means includes a spring associated with the reel. 4. The turn gate of claim 3, wherein the spring is a negator spring that maintains a relatively constant tension on the cord. 5. The turn gate of claim 1 wherein the bracket is hingedly attached to the base. 6. The turn gate of claim 5 further including a detachable lock pin connectable between the base and the bracket for preventing hinged movement of the bracket. 7. The turn gate of claim 1 wherein the finger and the cord have a low coefficient of friction. 8. The turn gate of claim 1 wherein the finger includes a longitudinal slot for receiving and guiding the cord. 9. A turn gate for receiving and supporting a plurality of wire segments at a bend in a wire harness assembled by a robot, the bend having an inner radius and an outer radius, the turn gate comprising: (a) a base including a finger; (b) a bracket hingedly attached the base, the bracket having an outer end located adjacent to the outer end of the finger, defining an entry gap with the finger through which the wire segments are received; (c) a guide member, interconnected between the bracket and the base and extending across the entry gap, for directing each wire segment received through the entry gap to the inner radius of the bend; and (d) a detachable lock pin connectable between the base and the bracket for preventing hinged movement of the bracket. 10. The turn gate of claim 9 further comprising tensioning means, including a negator spring associated with the reel, for maintaining a relatively constant tension on the cord. 11. The turn gate of claim 9 wherein the finger is positioned on a receiving side of the base and includes a smoothly curving tip to guide the wire segments to the guide member in the entry gap and wherein the bracket is hingedly mounted to the base away from the finger, the bracket includes a notch for receiving the guide member and positioning the guide member in the entry gap, and the bracket extends vertically above the finger so that the entry gap is on the receiving side of the turn gate. 12. The turn gate of claim 9 wherein the bracket and base define an aperture for receiving the wire segments, the finger defining a support surface for the outer radius of the bend. 13. A method of positioning a precut and preconfigured wire segment of a wire harness between two connectors, wherein the wire segment has two ends and is one wire in a bundle having a bend defining an inner radius and an outer radius, the method comprising the steps of: (a) robotically inserting one end of the wire segment into a receptacle in a connector; (b) robotically guiding the wire segment in a nonlinear path into the inner radius of the bend; and (c) robotically securing the other end of the wire segment in a second connector of the harness while the wire segment remains on the inner radius of the bend. 14. A turn gate for making bends in a wire harness comprising: (a) a base; (b) a reel carried within an aperture in the base; (c) a spring connected between the reel and the base; (d) a bracket affixed to the base and including a notched end; (e) a finger, including a longitudinal slot and a smoothly curving tip, extending from the base toward the notched end of the bracket to define a side-opening mouth above the tip; and (f) a tensioned guide means affixed to and wound on the reel and affixed to the bracket across the mouth in the slot and notched for receiving wire segments presented to the mouth by a robot and for directing the wire segments serially to an inner radius of the bend of the harness. 