Embodiments of the present invention provide a method for converting a doped amorphous silicon layer deposited onto a crystalline silicon substrate into crystalline silicon having the same grain structure and crystal orientation as the underlying crystalline silicon substrate upon which the amorphous silicon was initially deposited. Additional embodiments of the present invention provide depositing a dielectric passivation layer onto the amorphous silicon layer prior to the conversion. A temperature gradient is provided at a temperature and for a time period sufficient to provide a desired p-n junction depth and dopant profile.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of heat treating a crystalline silicon substrate, comprising: depositing an amorphous silicon film on a first surface of the crystalline silicon substrate, wherein the first surface of the crystalline silicon substrate is opposite to a second surface of the crystalline silicon substrate, a first surface of the amorphous silicon film is opposite to a second surface of the amorphous silicon film, and an interface is formed between the first surface of the crystalline silicon substrate and the second surface of the amorphous silicon film; and heating the crystalline silicon substrate and the amorphous silicon film to a temperature that is sufficient to crystallize the amorphous silicon film by solid phase crystallization, wherein the heating creates a temperature gradient in which the temperature at the second surface of the crystalline silicon substrate is greater than the temperature at the first surface of the amorphous silicon film, and the temperature gradient is between about 2.degree. C. and about 10.degree. C. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the heating comprises delivering heat to the second surface of the crystalline silicon substrate from a heating element disposed adjacent to the second surface of the crystalline silicon substrate, and the temperature at the first surface of the amorphous silicon film is less than the melting point of the amorphous silicon film. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the second surface of the crystalline silicon substrate is heated to a temperature between about 750.degree. C. and about 1200.degree. C. for a time period between about 5seconds and about 30 seconds. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein depositing the amorphous silicon film further comprises delivering a mixture of precursors comprising a silicon-containing compound into a vacuum deposition chamber in which the crystalline silicon substrate is disposed. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the mixture of precursors comprises a dopant precursor of opposite conductivity type than the crystalline silicon substrate. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising forming a dielectric layer on the amorphous silicon film prior to the heating of the crystalline silicon substrate and the amorphous silicon film. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the dielectric layer comprises two or more dielectric layers which each have different doping concentrations, and wherein the dielectric layer of the two or more dielectric layers that is disposed on the amorphous silicon film has a greater doping level than at least one of the other two or more dielectric layers. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the temperature gradient is about 5.degree. C. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the temperature gradient is maintained for a time period between about 5 seconds and about 30 seconds. 10. A method of heat treating a crystalline silicon substrate to form a p-n junction, comprising: depositing an amorphous silicon film on a first surface of the crystalline silicon substrate, wherein the first surface of the crystalline silicon substrate is opposite to a second surface of the crystalline silicon substrate, a first surface of the amorphous silicon film is opposite to a second surface of the amorphous silicon film, and an interface is formed between the first surface of the crystalline silicon substrate and the second surface of the amorphous silicon film; depositing a dielectric layer over the amorphous silicon film; and heating the crystalline silicon substrate and the amorphous silicon film to a temperature that is sufficient to crystallize the amorphous silicon film by solid phase crystallization, wherein the heating creates a temperature gradient between the second surface of the crystalline silicon substrate and the first surface of the amorphous silicon film in which the temperature at the first surface of the crystalline silicon substrate is greater than the temperature at the first surface of the amorphous silicon film, and the temperature gradient is between about 2.degree. C. and about 10.degree. C. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein depositing the amorphous silicon film further comprises delivering a mixture of precursors comprising a silicon-containing compound and a phosphorous-containing compound into a vacuum deposition chamber. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the second surface of the crystalline silicon substrate is heated to a temperature between about 750.degree. C. and about 1200.degree. C. for a time period between about 5seconds and about 30 seconds. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the dielectric layer is deposited in the same vacuum deposition chamber as the amorphous silicon film, and the dielectric layer is deposited prior to the heating of the crystalline silicon substrate and the amorphous silicon film. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the temperature gradient is about5.degree. C. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the dielectric layer comprises two or more dielectric layers that each have different doping concentrations, and wherein the dielectric layer of the two or more dielectric layers that is disposed on the amorphous silicon film has a greater doping level that at least one of the other two or more dielectric layers. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the heating of the crystalline silicon substrate and the amorphous silicon film is maintained for a sufficient time to cause a greater concentration of doping atom to remain at an interface between the dielectric layer and the amorphous silicon film than the concentration of doping atom at the first surface of the amorphous silicon film. 17. The method of claim 10, wherein the temperature of the first surface of the amorphous silicon film is less than the melting point of the amorphous silicon film. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the temperature gradient is maintained for a time period between about 5 seconds and about 30 seconds. 19. A method of heat treating a crystalline silicon substrate, comprising: depositing an amorphous silicon film on an upper surface of the crystalline silicon substrate during a plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition process within a deposition chamber, wherein the upper surface of the crystalline silicon substrate is opposite to a lower surface of the crystalline silicon substrate, an upper surface of the amorphous silicon film is opposite to a lower surface of the amorphous silicon film, and an interface is formed between the upper surface of the crystalline silicon substrate and the lower surface of the amorphous silicon film; and heating the crystalline silicon substrate and the amorphous silicon film to a temperature that is sufficient to crystallize the amorphous silicon film by solid phase crystallization within the deposition chamber, wherein the heating creates a temperature gradient in which the temperature at the lower surface of the crystalline silicon substrate is greater than the temperature at the upper surface of the amorphous silicon film. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the temperature gradient is between about 2.degree. C. and about 10.degree. C. 