An Automated Guided Vehicle System (AGVS) in which vehicles follow a guidepath defined by wires carrying electrical signals with selected routing between stations along the path. The vehicle has on-board a plurality of sensors operative independently or dependently of the wire for obtaining a plurality of guidance signals. The guidepath has digitally coded patterns which are read by sensors on-board the vehicle and converted into digital signals used by an on-board microcomputer for controlling the guidance modality including the selection of guidance signals from the sensors, and routing for accurate and reliable travel between the selected stations along the guidepath despite interruptions or abnormalities in the guidepath or the need for the vehicles to execute special maneuvers independent of the guidewire.
Claims We claim: 1. In an automated guided vehicle system (AGVS) wherein a vehicle is steered along a path defined by a signal-carrying wire and having a steering wheel for steering the vehicle, the improvement comprising a first and second set of sensor means on said vehicle and responsive to effects dependent upon the signal-carrying wire and independent of the signal-carrying wire respectively, for detecting the direction in which said vehicle is being steered and providing separate output signals, each representing said direction, means for selecting said output signals from different ones of said first and second sets of sensor means to guide said vehicle principally in response to different ones of said output signals in different portions of said path, and means for controlling the steering of said vehicle in response to said output signals which have been selected to provide automated guidance thereof. 2. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 1 wherein a first of said first set of sensor means includes means on said vehicle inductively coupled to said wire for providing a first of said output signals which detects the direction in which said vehicle is being steered, and means responsive to said first of said output signals for preventing automated guidance of said vehicle unless said vehicle is located on the wire in a position where said first of said first set of sensor means is in close proximity to the wire. 3. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 2 further comprising means responsive to said first of said output signals for enabling said vehicle to be manually steered until it reaches a position where said first of said output signals is detected and where said first of said first set of sensor means is further away from the wire than said position of close proximity with the wire such that the vehicle has acquired the wire. 4. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first set of sensor means comprises first and second sensor means on said vehicle, both for detecting the direction in which said vehicle is being steered, and second sensor means being outward of said first sensor means, and said first and second sensor means being inductively coupled to said wire for providing a first and a second of said output signals, and means responsive to said second of said output signals for enabling said vehicle to be manually steered until it reaches a position where said second of said output signals is of such amplitude to indicate that said vehicle has acquired the wire. 5. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 4 further comprising means responsive to said first output signal for preventing automated guidance of said vehicle unless said vehicle is located on the wire in a position with said first sensor means in close proximity with the wire. 6. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 1 wherein a first of said second set of sensor means comprises means for providing first output signals representing the angular position of said steering wheel, a first of said first set of sensor means comprises means on said vehicle inductively coupled to said wire for providing second output signals representing the deviation of said vehicle from said wire. 7. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 6 further comprising means for converting said first and second output signals into first and second digital signals, means for deriving a digital steering correction signal corresponding to the difference between said first and second digital signals for operating said steering controlling means to cause said vehicle to follow the wire. 8. The improvement is said AGVS as set forth in claim 6 wherein a second of said first set of sensor means comprises means disposed on said vehicle and inductively coupled to said wire for providing a third of said output signals representing the deviation of said vehicle from said wire, said first and second sensor means of said first set being located near opposite ends of said vehicle, and means for deriving a steering correction signal corresponding to the difference between said first output signal and the difference between said second and third output signals for operating said steering controlling means to cause said vehicle to follow the wire. 9. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 6 wherein said vehicle has at least three wheels two of which are journalled for rotation about an axis perpendicular to the center line of said vehicle and the third of said wheels is said steering wheel, said second set of sensor means comprising second and third sensor means for providing fourth and fifth output signals each representing the distance of rotation of different ones of said two wheels. 10. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 9 further comprising means responsive to the difference between said first output signals of said first of said second set sensor means and the difference between said fourth and fifth output signals of said second and third sensor means of said second set of sensor means for deriving a steering correction signal for operating said steering controlling means. 11. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 1 which further comprises a plurality of stations along said path each having said wire displaced transversely of said path in different directions to define a pattern representing by a plurality of bits of a digital code, said selecting means including means on said vehicle for reading said pattern and obtaining digital signals for selecting said different ones of said output signals and to select different modes of operation of said vehicle and which enables said vehicle to be guided between different locations along said path. 12. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 11 wherein said path has a main path defined by at least a first wire carrying a signal of frequency f.sub.1 and a plurality of spurs defined by at least a second wire carrying a frequency f.sub.2 different from f.sub.1, said first set of sensor means including means on said vehicle inductively coupled to said first and second wires for providing said signal-carrying wire dependent output signals, and means operated by said digital signals for selectively enabling said signal-carrying wire dependent output signals to be provided in response to said first wire carried signal of frequency f.sub.1 and second wire carried signal of frequency f.sub.2. 13. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 1 wherein said first set of sensor means includes means on said vehicle inductivly coupled to said wire for providing at least one of said output signals, means for converting said one output signal into successive digital signals corresponding thereto, and means for deriving a correction signal for operating said steering means when the difference in magnitude between each of a plurality of said successive digital signals is within a certain magnitude limits whereby to discriminate against perturbations in said one output signal. 14. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 1 wherein said selecting means includes means for selecting first output signals from one of said sensor means in said first set to operate said steering controlling means while said vehicle is traveling along a straight portion of said path, and means responsive to the output signals from at least one other of said sensor means in said first set for generating signals for calibrating said steering controlling means. 15. The improvement in AGVS as set forth in claim 14 wherein said one of said sensor means in said first set is a first coil having its axis vertical and perpendicular to a line between the ends of said vehicle along the center thereof, said other sensor means in said first set being a pair of coaxial coils disposed on opposite sides of said center line with their axes horizontal, and means for deriving said first output signals from the difference in amplitudes of the signals induced into said pair of horizontal coils from said wire, while said signals for calibrating said controlling means are derived from said first coil. 16. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 15 wherein said second set of sensor means includes means responsive to the angular position of said steering wheel for providing another of said output signals, said calibrating means being responsive to said steering wheel sensor output signals and said first output signals from said horizontal coils. 17. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 9 further comprising means for providing a sequence of signals representing values corresponding to said first, fourth and fifth output signals at successive points along a portion of said path defining a maneuver to be carried out by said vehicle, and means responsive to said sequence of signals and said first, fourth and fifth signals at said points for providing said output signals for said steering controlling means. 18. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 9 further comprising means for maneuvering said vehicle under manual control along a portion of said path, means responsive to at least said first output signals for storing values corresponding to the values thereof at successive points along said portion of said path while maneuvered on the manual control therealong, and means responsive to said stored values and actual values of at least said first output signals when said vehicle travels along said path portion under control of said steering controlling means which provides automated guidance thereof for providing said output signals for said steering controlling means. 19. In an automated guided vehicle system (AGVS), having an electric signal carrying wire defining a path along which vehicles are automatically steered and sensor means for deriving, when inductively coupled to said wire, first control signals which vary in accordance with the deviations of said vehicle from said wire, the improvement comprising a plurality of stations along said path each having said wire displaced transversely of said path in opposite directions to define a pattern representing by a plurality of bits of a digital code, further sensor means for producing second control signals dependent upon the direction of travel of said vehicle and independent of said wire, means operative upon detection of said pattern for guiding said vehicle with said second control signals while said vehicle travels over said pattern, and means for reading said pattern for deriving digital signals therefrom to select different modes of operation of said vehicle. 20. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 19 further comprising means for providing successive pulses corresponding to successive incremental distances said vehicle travels along said path, means responsive to said pulses for controlling said reading means to read said pattern. 21. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 20 wherein said reading means comprises first and second coils spaced in the direction of travel of said vehicle and with their axes vertical and perpendicular to the wire, said coils being interconnected in bucking relationship for providing code signals having oppositely polarized transitions in response to portions of the wire in said pattern which are displaced in opposite-directions across said path. 22. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 21 wherein said reading means further comprises a shift register, and means responsive to said pulses and said code signals for entering successive bits of said digital signal into said register. 23. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 19 wherein the pattern contains at least two successive oppositely directed displacements of said wire which represent said digital signals as having initial digital bits of opposite value, and means for inhibiting response to said digital signal unless said initial bits are present. 24. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 22 wherein said pattern has initially two displacements in opposite directions representing initial bits of the digital signal of opposite value, and means responsive to the presence of a bit corresponding to the value of said initial bit in the last stage of said shift register after the occurrence of a number of said pulses corresponding to the distance of along said path occupied by said pattern for deriving an output representing that a digital signal is valid. 25. The improvement in said AGVS as set forth in claim 19 wherein said pattern has a plurality of cells defined each in a successive segment of said pattern between which said wire can be displaced in opposite directions (left or right) across said path, at least an initial one of said cells being defined by a displacement of said wire in one of said directions, and a successive plurality of said cells succeeding said initial cell defining groups of bits of said digital code in accordance with a code representing routing and control commands for said vehicles. 