An automated facility for the large-scale production of superconducting magnets for use in a particle accelerator. Components of the automated facility include: a superconducting coil winding machine; a coil form and cure press apparatus; a coil collaring press; collar pack assembly apparatus; yoke half stacking apparatus; a cold mass assembly station; and a final assembly station. The facility can produce, on an economical manufacturing basis, magnets made of superconducting material for use in the ring of the particle accelerator. Each of the components is under the control of a programmable controller for operation having repeatable accuracy. All of the elements which are combined to form the superconducting magnet are thus manufactured with the dimensional precision required to produce a known, uniform magnetic field within the accelerator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for pressing and curing a coil made of superconductor material, the superconducting material being wound onto a winding mandrel and secured thereto so as to form the coil, said apparatus comprising: press means for forming and curing the coil, said press means including, a. a lower platen for receiving the winding mandrel; b. an upper platen cure mold having a cavity of a predetermined shape therein for receiving the coil on the winding mandrel; c. means for aligning the winding mandrel with respect to the upper platen cure mold; d. means for raising and lowering the winding mandrel with respect to the lower platen and into and out of the cavity of the upper platen cure mold; e. sensing means for determining when the coil and the winding mandrel have seated in the cavity of the upper platen cure mold; f. means for aligning the coil on the winding mandrel with respect to the cavity of the upper platen cure mold; g. means for raising and lowering the lower platen with respect to the upper platen cure mold, and for applying pressure to a pressing means positioned adjacent to the coil on the winding mandrel positioned within the cavity when the lower platen has been raised into contact with the pressing means for forming the coil into the predetermined shape of the cavity; and h. means for heating the coil on the winding mandrel, when within the cavity of the upper platen cure mold, to a predetermined temperature, for curing the coil; and a conveyor for moving the winding mandrel into and out of said press means, the conveyor having means for aligning the winding mandrel with respect to said press means. 2. The apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising a controller for automatically controlling the operation of said press means. 3. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said sensing means comprises a plurality of proximity switches disposed within the cavity of the upper platen cure mold. 4. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said means for raising and lowering the winding mandrel with respect to the lower platen is lowered at the same rate as the lower platen is raised into contact with the winding mandrel. 5. The apparatus as in claim 4, wherein said means for raising and lowering the winding mandrel comprises a plurality of hydraulic cylinders. 6. The apparatus as in claim 5, wherein said means for raising and lowering the lower platen comprises a plurality of single-acting hydraulic cylinders. 7. The apparatus as in claim 6, further comprising a controller for automatically controlling the operation of said press means. 8. The apparatus as in claim 7, wherein said means for aligning the coil on the winding mandrel with respect to the cavity in the upper platen cure mold comprises a plurality of spacer shims positioned between the winding mandrel and the lower platen. 9. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein said means for heating the coil to a predetermined temperature achieves a temperature sufficient to cure a heat-curable material wrapped on the coil. 10. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein said means for heating the coil comprises a plurality of passageways positioned within the upper platen cure mold for permitting flow therethrough of heating fluid for heating the upper platen cure mold for curing the coil. 11. The apparatus as in claim 1, further comprising a pressing bar having a plurality of vertical side rails for applying pressure to the coil as the lower platen is raised into contact with the pressing bar for forming the coil. 12. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the winding mandrel further comprises a centerpost for winding the coil against the centerpost for forming the coil. 13. The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein the centerpost, the winding mandrel, the pressing bar, and the upper platen cure mold are interchangeable for forming an inner coil and an outer coil for a superconducting magnet. 14. The apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the outer coil has approximately twenty turns of superconducting wire and has a cross-sectional dimension of approximately 6.3 cm and the inner coil has approximately sixteen turns of superconducting wire and has a cross-sectional dimension of approximately 3.0 cm. 15. The apparatus as in claim 1, wherein the coil is approximately 16.5 m long. 16. An apparatus for pressing and curing a coil, which is wound onto a winding mandrel and secured thereto, the apparatus comprising: a press for forming and curing the coil, the press including, a. a lower bolster platen for receiving the winding mandrel; b. an upper platen cure mold having a cavity of a predetermined shape therein for receiving the coil on the winding mandrel; c. a pressing bar attached to the winding mandrel and abutting the coil wound onto the winding mandrel; d. a plurality of load rollers, positioned between the lower bolster platen and the pressing bar, having grooves for receiving the pressing bar for aligning the coil and winding mandrel with respect to the upper platen cure mold; e. a plurality of first cylinders disposed within the lower bolster platen for raising the winding mandrel with respect to the lower bolster platen and into the cavity of the upper platen cure mold; f. a plurality of guide rods installed in the upper platen cure mold for aligning the winding mandrel within the press as the mandrel is raised into contact with the upper platen cure mold; g. a plurality of proximity switches positioned within the upper platen cure mold for determining when the coil and the winding mandrel have seated in the cavity of the upper platen cure mold; h. a plurality of spacer shims positioned on the lower bolster platen for aligning the coil on the winding mandrel with respect to the cavity of the upper platen cure mold; i. a plurality of second cylinders disposed within the lower bolster platen for raising the lower bolster platen with respect to the upper platen cure mold, and for applying pressure to the coil within the cavity when the lower bolster platen has been raised into contact with the pressing bar for forming the coil into the predetermined shape of the cavity; and j. the upper platen cure mold having a plurality of passageways positioned therein for enabling a flow therethrough of a heating fluid for heating the coil on the winding mandrel, when within the cavity of the upper platen cure mold, to a predetermined temperature for curing the coil; and a conveyor positioned adjacent to the press for moving the winding mandrel into and out of the press, the conveyor having a plurality of guide rollers for aligning the winding mandrel with respect to the press. 17. The apparatus as in claim 16, wherein the press further comprises a pressing plate, positioned on the lower bolster platen and between an end of the lower bolster platen and the pressing bar, for applying pressure to the pressing bar as the lower bolster platen is raised, the pressing bar applying pressure to the coil within the cavity for forming the coil into the predetermined shape of the cavity. 18. The apparatus as in claim 17, wherein the plurality of load rollers and the plurality of spacer shims are positioned on the pressing plate. 19. The apparatus as in claim 17, wherein the pressing plate of the lower bolster platen applies pressure to a plurality of vertical side rails of the pressing bar, the vertical side rails applying pressure to the coil for forming the coil into the predetermined shape of the cavity. 20. The apparatus as in claim 16, further comprising a controller which interacts with a heat transfer control unit, a hydraulic control unit, and a pneumatic control unit for providing overall control of the press. 