A stand alone imaging system is disclosed that captures undistorted, high resolution, stop-action images of objects (e.g., medicine pills) moving at automation speeds, processes the images in real time, and then performs real-time I/O based control that is a function of the image processing results. The imaging system has a form factor that enables it to be embedded inside a product (e.g., a pill dispenser). The imaging system also has a flexible I/O system so that a variety of different applications can be handled by changing only the programming and the external hardware connected to the device in which the imaging system is embedded. In the case of pill dispensing and quality control, a miniature, low cost imaging system can be embedded in a pill dispenser to obtain a pill image and then process the image in real time as the pill moves through a counting system. The embedded imaging system processes the images fast enough and with sufficient quality and resolution so as to command a pill counting mechanism to dispense or reject the pill based on the image processing results. Images of the pills can also be sent to a remote location or an archive. The embedded imaging system has sufficient processing power and I/O to control the entire pill counting mechanism. Lighting may be provided by a separate solid state lighting source which may be controlled by the embedded imaging system's camera or operated independently. Because of the rules governing abstracts, this abstract should not be used to construe the claims.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising performing the following using an imaging system embedded in a unit configured to transport an item with an item-transporting member of the unit: taking a picture of the item with a camera embedded in the unit when the item is being transported by the unit such that the item-transporting member and the item are in motion together; comparing said picture with a pre-stored image of said item in real-time; determining a quality of said item based on said comparison; and automatically operating one or more hardware parts in said unit in response to said determining. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: discarding said item in response to said determining when said quality of said item is below a minimum quality. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: printing said picture of said item; and supplying said printed picture along with said item. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said comparing includes: extracting a first set of item-related information from said picture; obtaining a second set of item-related information from a storage device; and comparing said first and said second sets of item-related information. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising counting in real-time each said item whose quality is determined to be satisfactory. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing one of the following using said embedded imaging system: controlling a device to count and transport to a first destination each said item whose quality is determined to be satisfactory; and controlling said device to transport each said item to a second destination for disposal when the quality of said item is determined to be unsatisfactory. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said taking includes illuminating said item. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said illuminating includes adjusting an intensity of an artificial light. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a supplemental source of electrical energy to supply additional electrical energy on an as-needed basis during said taking of said picture of said item. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining includes judging closeness between said picture of said item and said pre-stored image of said item based on said comparing in real-time. 11. A method comprising performing the following using an imaging system embedded in a unit configured to transport an item with an item-transporting member of the unit: producing a picture of the item with a camera embedded in the unit when said item is being transported by said unit such that the item-transporting member and the item are in motion together; comparing in real-time said picture with a pre-stored image of said item; and automatically operating one or more hardware parts in said unit in real-time in response to said comparison. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining quality of said item based on said comparison. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: controlling one or more of said hardware parts to discard said item when the quality is determined to be unsatisfactory; and maintaining a count of each non-discarded item. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising illuminating said item. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said illuminating includes adjusting an intensity of a light. 16. The method of claim 11, further comprising providing a supplemental source of electrical energy to supply additional electrical energy on an as-needed basis during said taking of said picture of said item. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein said comparing includes: determining at least one item-related attribute of said item from said picture of said item; obtaining a pre-stored attribute from said pre-stored image of said item; and judging closeness between said at least one item-related attribute and said pre-stored attribute. 18. A method comprising performing the following using an imaging system embedded in a pharmaceutical dispensing unit configured to transport a pharmaceutical item with an item-transporting member of the pharmaceutical dispensing unit: taking a picture of the pharmaceutical item as it is being transported by, the pharmaceutical dispensing unit such that the item-transporting member and the pharmaceutical item are in motion together; comparing said picture with a pre-stored image of said pharmaceutical item; determining a quality of the pharmaceutical item based on said comparison; operating one or more hardware parts in said pharmaceutical dispensing unit in response to said determining. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising operating one or more hardware parts to guide the pharmaceutical item to a discard path when said quality is determined to be unsatisfactory. 20. The method of claim 18 further comprising operating one or more hardware parts to guide the pharmaceutical item to a customer container when said quality is determined to be satisfactory. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising counting the pharmaceutical items that are guided to the customer container. 22. The method of claim 18 wherein determining a quality of the pharmaceutical item further comprises determining the physical integrity of the pharmaceutical item. 23. The method of claim 18 wherein determining a quality of the pharmaceutical item further comprises determining the size, shape, color, orientation, spectra, position or identity of the pharmaceutical item. 24. The method of claim 18 wherein at least one of the taking, comparing, determining and operating steps is performed automatically. 25. A method comprising performing the following using an imaging system embedded in a unit configured to transport an item with an item-transporting member of the unit: taking a picture of the item with a camera embedded in the unit when the item is being transported by the unit such that the item-transporting member and the item are in motion together, wherein said taking includes operating the imaging system to take a picture of said item when said item is in a field of view of said imaging system; comparing said picture with a pre-stored image of said item in real-time; determining a quality of said item based on said comparison; and automatically operating one or more hardware parts in said unit in response to said determining. 26. A method comprising performing the following using an imaging system embedded in a unit configured to transport an item with an item-transporting member of the unit: producing a picture of the item with a camera embedded in the unit when said item is being transported by said unit such that the item-transporting member and the item are in motion together; comparing in real-time said picture with a pre-stored image of said item; and automatically operating one or more hardware parts in said unit in real-time in response to said comparison, wherein said one or more hardware parts is selected from the group consisting of lighting, flippers, diverters, cameras, motors, vacuum sources and dispensers. 