An artificial hand device, particularly for use in robotics, comprises an assembly of substantially parallel pins mounted on a carrier so that the free ends of pins pressed against a given object may move axially to conform to the profile of the object. Means to move lateral surfaces of the pins laterally allows the device to grip the object. Means to detect pin position allows sensing of the shape of the object.
Claims I claim: 1. An artificial hand device comprising an assembly of substantially parallel pins mounted to be capable of axial movement, to conform to the profile of an object against which free ends of the pins are pressed, and of gripping the object sideways, the pins being mounted in two or more laterally movable carriers as a multiple row matrix, lateral surfaces of the pins being movable laterally to grip an object frictionally by lateral carrier movement. 2. An artificial hand device as claimed in claim 1, in which pin movement sensor means are provided to enable the profile of an object against which free ends of pins are pressed to be determined. 3. An artificial hand device as claimed in claim 2, in which the pin movement sensor means are switches; switches for individual pins being in a first state when the pin is at a datum position, and in a second state when the pin has moved from that datum position, means being provided to determine the profile of an object by correlating the distribution of switches in said first and second states with the position of the device in the direction of the pin axes. 4. An artificial hand device comprising an assembly of substantially parallel pins mounted on a carrier, so that free ends of pins pressed against a given object may move axially to conform to the profile of the object, means being provided to move pin lateral surfaces adjacent to the object laterally to grip the object, pin movement sensors being provided to enable the profile of an object against which free ends of pins are pressed to be determined. 5. An artificial hand device as claimed in claim 4, in which the pin movement sensor means are switches; switches for individual pins being in a first state when the pin is at a datum position, and in a second state when the pin has moved from that datum position, means being provided to determine the profile of an object by correlating the distribution of switches in said first and second states with the position of the device in the direction of the pin axes. 