A robotic gripper for transporting an object such as a disk-shaped integrated circuit wafer by contacting and gripping only its edge surface. The robotic gripper includes a plurality of elongated fingers which are joined together at a central location from which they project outward in the shape of the letter "X" to their fingertips. Each fingertip may be individually extended outward from or retracted inward to the edge surface of the object to be transported. To adapt the fingertips for grasping the edge of disk-shaped integrated circuit wafers, each fingertip is formed with a projecting lip having a V-shaped notch into which a wafer's edge surface is received while it is being gripped. Each finger includes a bellows through which a cable communicates force from a remote motor to the fingertip. A housing encloses cables and gears used to move the cable.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic gripper as may be used for picking up, supporting, and releasing a disk-shaped object by mechanically engaging only said object's edge surface comprising, a plurality of fingers having tips which may be extended outward from or retracted inward to said object's edge surface, the tips of said fingers being respectively located at individual positions spaced about said ojbect's edge surface, said plurality of fingers being mechanically joined together into a unitary assembly at a single location lying within the perimeter of the area enclosed by a polygon having its verticies at each of the fingertips, and fingertip actuator means for extending the tips of said fingers outward from or withdrawing them inward toward said object's edge surface. 2. The robot gripper of claim 1 wherein a thin disk-shaped object is to be picked up, supported, and released and wherein said fingers project radially outward from the single location at which said fingers are joined together, the tips of said fingers being located at points which divide the shape of said disk-shaped object's circumference into a plurality of arcs. 3. The robotic gripper of claim 2 wherein each fingertip is notched to receive the edge surface of said disk-shaped object. 4. A robotic gripper as may be used for picking up, supporting, and releasing a disk-shaped object by mechanically engaging only said object's edge surface comprising, a plurality of fingers having tips which may be extended outward from or retracted inward to said object's edge surface, the tips of said fingers being respectively located at individual positions spaced apart about said object's edge surface, and fingertip actuator means totally enclosed within the outer surface of said fingers for extending the tips of said fingers outward from or withdrawing them inward toward said object's edge surface, wherein each finger is hollow and adapted for applying a force to the fingertip thereof which urges that fingertip to extend outward, and wherein the fingertips are urged to retract inward overcoming the force urging them to extend outward by a fingertip control cable enclosed within and extending along the length of said hollow finger. 5. The robotic gripper of claim 4 wherein a hollow bellows located along the length of said finger intermediate the fingertip and the single location at which the plurality of said fingers are joined together provides the force urging the fingertip to extend outward. 6. The robotic gripper of claim 5 wherein said each bellows internally contacts said fingertip actuator means and a fingertip thereby preventing fingertip rotation. 7. A robotic gripper as may be used for picking up, supporting, and releasing a disk-shaped object by mechanically engaging only said object's edge surface comprising, a plurality of fingers having tips which may be extended outwards from or retracted inward to said object's edge surface, the tips of said fingers being respectively located at individual positions spaced about said object's edge surface, fingertip actuator means totally enclosed within the outer surface of said fingers for extending the tips of said fingers outward from or withdrawing them inward toward said object's edge surface, and fingertip control means for individually controlling the extension of each fingertip outward and its retraction inward, said fingertip control means including a base plate from which said fingers project. 8. The robotic gripper of claim 7 wherein each finger is hollow and is adapted for applying a force to the fingertip thereof which urges that fingertip to extend outward, and wherein the fingertips are urged to retract inward overcoming the force urging them to extend outward by a fingertip control cable enclosed within and extending along the length of said hollow finger. 9. The robotic gripper of claim 8 wherein a hollow bellows located along the length of said finger intermediate the fingertip and the single location at which the plurality of said fingers are joined together provides the force urging the fingertip to extend outward. 10. The robotic gripper of claim 8 wherein said fingertip control means includes an individual, motor driven pulley for controlling the outward extension and inward retraction of each fingertip, each such motor driven pulley having a section of the length of said fingertip control cable wrapped about and secured to a segment of its periphery. 11. The robotic gripper of claim 10 further comprising extension limit means for limiting the outward extension of each individual fingertip. 12. The robotic gripper of claim 11 wherein each motor driven pulley includes a pin projecting outward from one of its planar surfaces which mechanically limits the outward extension of the fingertip upon the pin's engagement with the structure of the fingertip control means from which said fingers project. 13. The robotic gripper of claim 11 wherein each motor is coupled to a pulley by clutch means for limiting torque transmitted to each pulley. 14. A robotic gripper, as may be used for picking up, supporting and releasing a disk-shaped object by mechanically engaging said object's edge surface comprising, a base plate, a plurality of fingers extending in the same direction from the base, the fingers each having a curved central region and an outward tip, the curved central region of the fingers, as a group, formed so that outward tips of the fingers are located at polygonal vertices within which the outer peripheral edge circumference of a disk-shaped object may be enclosed, the tips having means for engaging the peripheral edge of said object, and means for extending and withdrawing said fingers whereby objects placed within said vertices may be picked up and deposited by edge contact. 15. The robot gripper of claim 14 wherein each finger is hollow, having a cable therein along the curved central region, the cable having an outward end connected to the tip, the tip elastically joined to the central region whereby cable motion causes extension and retraction of the tip relative to the central region. 16. The robot gripper of claim 14 wherein the tip is connected to the central region by means of a bellows. 17. The robot gripper of claim 15 wherein said fingers are curved, the outward tips forming a planar X pattern, said tips having wafer gripping notches connected thereto extending out of the plane of said X pattern. 18. The robot gripper of claim 17 wherein said wafer gripping notches are extensible beyond the edge of said object. 19. The robot gripper of claim 15 wherein said base supports a plurality of motor driven pulleys, each pulley having a cable trained about the periphery thereof. 20. The robot gripper of claim 14 wherein said fingers and tips are aligned such that the overall dimensional width of the apparatus passes between wafers in a wafer carrier. 21. The robot gripper of claim 14 wherein said fingers are joined to form a unitary assembly. 22. A robotic gripper as may be used for picking up, supporting, and releasing a thin, disk-shaped object such as an integrated circuit wafer by mechanically engaging only said object's edge surface, said object being disposed in any orientation, comprising, a plurality of fingers having fingertips which may be extended outward from or retracted inward to said object's edge surface, said plurality of fingers being mechanically joined together into a unitary assembly at a single location lying within the perimeter of the area enclosed by a polygon having its vertices at each of the fingertips, said fingers projecting radially outward from the location at which they are joined together to dispose the tips thereof at points which divide the shape of said disk-shaped object's circumference into a plurality of arcs, each fingertip being formed with a notch for receiving the edge surface of said disk-shaped object, said fingers being formed substantially coplanar with the notched portion of the tips thereof projecting outward from that plane, and fingertip actuator means for extending the fingertips of said fingers outward from or withdrawing them inward toward said object's edge surface. 23. The robotic gripper of claim 22 further including means for enclosing wear surfaces of said fingers and said fingertip actuator means. 