An end-effector is provided for use on a micro/nano manipulation device. The end-effector is comprised of: a micropump fluidly coupled to a microtube; a piezoelectric sensing structure disposed in the microtube; and a processing circuit electrically coupled to the sensing structure for determining the force of the fluid flowing through the microtube. The end-effector is a closed loop control-enabled micro/nano manipulation system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end-effector for use on a micro/nano manipulation device, comprising: a micropump fluidly coupled to a microtube and operable to pump a fluid through the microtube; a sensing structure made of a piezoelectric material and disposed in the microtube, wherein the microtube includes a sensing cavity having a cross-sectional area substantially larger than a cross-sectional area of a remainder of the microtube and the sensing structure is a thin beam affixed to an inner surface of the sensing cavity and extending into the sensing cavity; and a processing circuit electrically coupled to the sensing structure and operable to determine the force or flow rate of the fluid flowing through the microtube. 2. The end-effector of claim 1 wherein the sensing structure is made of a polyvinylidene fluoride material. 3. The end-effector of claim 1 wherein the sensing structure is a composite beam comprised of polyvinylidene fluoride material and polyester material or other plastic materials with the property of high elasticity. 4. The end-effector of claim 1 wherein the sensing structure is affixed only on one side to the sensing cavity such that a voltage, V.sub.s(s), output by the sensing structure correlates to a force, f.sub.c(s), exerted on the sensing structure as follows: .function..function..times..infin..times..times..PHI.'.function..times..P- HI.'.function..times..PHI..function..rho..times..times..function..omega. ##EQU00029## where .phi..sub.i(r) are the eigenfunction satisfying the ordinary differential equation, a prime of .phi..sub.i(r) indicates a derivative with respect to position, L is the length of the beam, .rho. is a linear density of the beam, A is the cross sectional area of the beam and .omega..sub.i are natural frequencies of the beam. 5. The end-effector of claim 1 wherein the processing circuit is further operable to determine a flow rate of the fluid in the microtube. 6. The end-effector of claim 1 wherein the processing circuit is further operable to determine a flow rate of the fluid at an end of the microtube distal from the micropump. 7. The end-effector of claim 1 wherein the microtube having an inner diameter of approximately 254 .mu.m. 8. A method for performing a micro/nano manipulation using a pneumatic end effector, comprising: generating a micro force using a micropump disposed on an end-effector; measuring the micro force using a sensing structure made of a piezoelectric material disposed in a flow path of the micropump; controlling the micro force generated by the micropump based in part on the measured micro force; and moving a micro/nano object with the end-effect by generating a suction force with the micropump. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein measuring the microforce further comprises correlating a voltage associated with the piezoelectric material to a force acting upon the sensing structure. 10. The method of claim 9 further comprises releasing the micro/nano object from the end-effector by generating a blow force with the micropump. 11. The method of claim 8 further comprises fluidly coupling a microtube to the micropump and disposing the sensing structure within the microtube. 12. The method of claim 8 further comprises constructing the sensing structure using a polyvinylidene fluoride material. 13. A micro/nano manipulation system, comprising: a pneumatic end effector coupled to a movable member, the end-effector including a micropump fluidly coupled to a microtube and operable to generate a fluid force at an open end of the microtube; a sensing structure disposed in the microtube and operable to measure a fluid force acting thereupon, wherein the microtube includes a sensing cavity having a cross-sectional area substantially larger than a cross-sectional area of a remainder of the microtube and the sensing structure is a thin beam affixed to an inner surface of the sensing cavity and extending into the sensing cavity; and a sensing circuit electrically coupled to the sensing structure and operable to output the measured fluid force; and a controller in data communication with the sensing circuit and the micropump, the controller operable to control the fluid force generated by the micropump based on the measured fluid force. 14. The micro/nano manipulation system of claim 13 wherein the sensing structure is made of a polyvinylidene fluoride material. 15. The micro/nano manipulation system of claim 13 wherein the sensing structure is affixed only on one side to the sensing cavity such that a voltage, V.sub.s(s), output by the sensing structure correlates to a force, f.sub.c(s), exerted on the sensing structure as follows .function..function..times..infin..times..times..PHI.'.function..times..P- HI.'.function..times..PHI..function..rho..times..times..function..omega. ##EQU00030## Where .phi..sub.i(r) are the eigenfunction satisfying the ordinary differential equation, a prime of .phi..sub.i(r) indicates a derivative with respect to position, L is the length of the beam, .rho. is a linear density of the beam, A is the cross sectional area of the beam and .omega..sub.i are natural frequencies of the beam. 16. The micro/nano manipulation system of claim 13 is a closed loop control enabled system. 