Disclosed is a robotic paint system for aircraft consisting of a robotic wash/rinse gantry, a robotic cart carrying a robotic painting system, and a control system. The paint system includes a robotically controlled wash/rinse gantry movable along the entire extent of the aircraft being maintained. A robotically controlled cart is provided which is carried by a plurality of wheel assemblies on a curved track. A robotically controlled platform is provided for carrying the robotic painting system, and a mechanism is also provided for adjusting the platform up and down as well as towards and away from the platform.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for performing robotically controlled maintenance on an object wherein control over the position and orientation of a maintenance robot with respect to the object is necessary to replicate such maintenance, the apparatus comprising: a maintenance robot; a mobile cart for supporting said robot; a track, said track including a curved portion; a plurality of wheel assemblies for carrying said cart on said track; each of said wheel assemblies being in contact with said track, each wheel assembly including three wheels and means for mounting said three wheels in a fixed position relative to each other and means for pivoting said three wheels relative to said cart for travel along said curbed portion of said track. 2. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein a first wheel of each said wheel assembly is mounted at a substantially 90 degree orientation to a second and third wheel of each said wheel assembly. 3. An apparatus as in claim 2 wherein said second and third wheels are mounted for rotation in substantially the same plane. 4. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein each of said three wheels is mounted between said cart and said track and wherein each of said three wheels bears the weight of said cart on said track. 5. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein said track is substantially circular in cross-section with a substantially circular peripheral surface and said three wheels each include a concave surface mating with said track circular peripheral surface. 6. An apparatus as in claim 1 wherein a first wheel of each wheel assembly has an axis of rotation in a first plane and a second wheel of each wheel assembly has an axis of rotation in a second plane and a third wheel of each wheel assembly has an axis of rotation in a third plane, and wherein said first and second planes are parallel and said third plane is parallel to and lies between said first and second planes. 7. An apparatus as in claim 6 wherein said third plane lies midway between said first and second planes. 8. AN apparatus as in claim 1 including a first track and a second track and first and second wheel assemblies for carrying said cart on said first track and a third wheel assembly for carrying said cart on said second track. 9. An apparatus as in claim 1 including a lift platform for supporting said robot and means for movably mounting said lift platform on said cart for vertical movement relative to said track; and at least one fluid containing tank supported on said lift platform and means for connecting said tank to said robot, whereby the distance between said tank and said robot is minimized. 10. An apparatus as in claim 1 including a lift platform for supporting said robot and means for movably mounting said lift platform on said cart for vertical movement relative to said track; a robot platform for supporting said robot and means for extending said robot platform along and beyond the end of said lift platform for horizontal extension of said robot beyond the end of said lift platform. 11. An apparatus as in claim 1 including a floor for supporting said track said track being continuous; means for rigidly attaching said track to said floor at at least one predetermined location; means for slideably attaching said track to said floor at a plurality of locations to compensate for thermal expansion of said track. 12. An apparatus for performing robotically controlled maintenance on an object wherein control over the position and orientation of a maintenance robot with respect to the object is necessary to replicate such maintenance, the apparatus comprising: a maintenance robot; a mobile cart for supporting said robot; a track positioned on a floor for supporting said cart; a plurality of wheel assemblies in contact with said track for carrying said cart on said track; a lift platform for supporting said robot and means for movably mounting said lift platform on said cart for vertical movement relative to said track; and at least one fluid containing tank supported on said lift platform and means for connecting said tank to said robot, whereby the distance between said tank and said robot is minimized. 13. An apparatus as in claim 12 including a robot platform for supporting said robot and means for extending said robot platform beyond the end of said lift platform for horizontal extension of said robot beyond the end of said lift platform. 14. An apparatus as in claim 12 wherein said means for movably mounting said lift platform includes a ball screw assembly. 15. An apparatus as in claim 12 wherein said track includes a curved portion and wherein each of said wheel assemblies includes three wheels and further including means for mounting said three wheels in a fixed position relative to each other and means for pivoting said three wheels relative to said cart for travel along said curbed portion of said track. 16. An apparatus as in claim 12 including a floor for supporting said track; means for rigidly attaching said track to said floor at at least one predetermined location; means for slideably attaching said track to said floor at a plurality of locations to compensate for thermal expansion of said track. 17. An apparatus for performing robotically controlled maintenance on an object wherein control over the position and orientation of a maintenance robot with respect to the object is necessary to replace such maintenance, the apparatus comprising: a maintenance robot; a mobile cart for supporting said robot; a track positioned on a floor for supporting said track; said track being continuous; a plurality of wheel assemblies for carrying said cart on said track; means for rigidly attaching said track to said floor at at least one predetermined location; mean for slideably attaching said track to said floor at a plurality of locations to compensate for thermal expansion of said track. 18. An apparatus as in claim 17 wherien said track includes a curved portion and wherein each of said wheel assemblies includes three wheels and further including means for mounting said three wheels in a fixed position relative to each other and means for pivoting said three wheels relative to said cart for travel along said curved portion of said track. 19. An apparatus as in claim 17 including a lift platform for supporting said robot and means for movably mounting said lift platform on said cart for vertical movement relative to said track; and at least one fluid containing tank supported on said lift platform and means for connecting said tank to said robot, whereby the distance between said tank and said robot is minimized. 20. An apparatus as in claim 17 including: a lift platform for supporting said robot and means for movably mounting said lift platform on said cart for vertical movement relative to said track; and a robot platform for supporting said robot and means for extending said robot platform along and beyond the end of said lift platform for horizontal extension of said robot beyond the end of said lift platform. 21. An apparatus for performing robotically controlled maintenance on an object wherein control over the position and orientation of a maintenance robot with respect to the object is necessary to replicate such maintenance, the apparatus comprising: a maintenance robot; a mobile cart for supporting said robot; a track positioned on a floor for supporting said track; a plurality of wheel assemblies in contact with said track for carrying said cart on said track; a lift platform for supporting said robot and means for movably mounting said lift platform on said cart for vertical movement relative to said track; and a robot platform for supporting said robot and means for extending said robot platform along and beyond the end of said lift platform for horizontal extension of said robot beyond the end of said lift platform. 22. An apparatus as in claim 21 further including: means for rigidly attaching said track to said floor at at least one predetermined location; and means for slideably attaching said track to said floor at a plurality to flotations to compensate for thermal expansion of said track. 23. An apparatus as in claim 21 wherein said track includes a curved portion and wherein each of said wheel assemblies includes three wheels and further including means for mounting said three wheels in a fixed position relative to each other and means for pivoting said three wheels relative to said cart for travel along said curbed portion of said track. 24. An apparatus as in claim 21 further including at least one fluid containing tank supported on said lift platform and means for connecting said tank to said robot, whereby the distance between said tank and said robot is minimized. 25. The apparatus of claim 21 including, said track having a curved portion. 26. The apparatus of claim 21 including, means for rigidly attaching said track to said floor at at least one predetermined location; and means for slideably attaching said track to said floor at a plurality of locations to compensate for thermal expansion of said track. 27. The apparatus of claim 21 including, means for rigidly attaching said track to said floor at at least one predetermined location; means for slideably attaching said track to said floor at a plurality of locations to compensate for thermal expansion of said track, said track includes a curved portion and wherien each of said wheel assemblies includes three wheels and further including means for mounting said three wheels in a fixed position relative to each other and means for pivoting said three wheels relative to said cart for travel along said curbed portion of said track, and at least one fluid containing tank supported on said lift platform and means for connecting said tank to said robot, whereby the distance between said tank and said robot is minimized. 