A mounting pedestal is designed to hold a DUT in position for both electrical testing and vibration testing. The design is such that the pedestal can remain thermally sealed from an environment created within a confined area so as to impart vibration to a DUT positioned within the environmentally protected area, the vibration coming from a vibrator outside the environmentally sealed area. The pedestal, in one embodiment, extends through the base of a DUT holding tray while still preserving the environment within the sealed area. In one embodiment, the pedestal can position the DUT in any of several selected orientations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for vibration testing a device under test, (DUT), said system comprising: a chamber; a support positioned within said chamber, said support adapted for hold said DUT within said chamber during vibration testing; and a seal positioned with respect to said support for allowing said support to having vibrating motion imparted to a DUT from a vibration device positioned outside of said chamber, wherein one of said chamber and said vibration device is movable into proximity to the other of said chamber and said vibration device. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said support has an end extending outside of said chamber and wherein said end is adapted for releasably attaching to said vibration device. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said chamber is formed within sides and bottom of a tray, said tray bottom having an opening therein for passage of said support; and wherein said support is maintained in a supported position by said tray bottom when not attached to said vibration device. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said vibration device is positioned in a fixed location and wherein said tray is movable into proximity to said vibration device for vibration testing of said DUT. 5. A system for vibration testing device under test (DUT), said system comprising: a tray; means for creating a controlled environment over said tray; a vibrator positioned outside of said controlled environment, wherein one of the tray with controlled environment and the vibrator is movable into proximity to the other of said tray with created controlled environment and said vibrator; and means for allowing said vibrator to impart motion to a DUT placed within said controlled environment while maintaining environmental integrity around said DUT when said vibrator and said tray with said controlled environment are proximal to each other. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein said means for allowing comprises at least one connection between a movable portion of said vibrator and a proximal end of said tray. 7. The system of claim 5 wherein said controlled environment comprises a temperature controlled environment. 8. The system of claim 5 wherein said means for allowing comprises: a pedestal for supporting said DUT within said controlled environment created over the tray, at least a portion of said pedestal extending through said tray to the outside of said controlled environment; and a connector positioned at an end of said extending portion of said pedestal for mating with a movable portion of said vibrator. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein said connector mates using a vacuum seal. 10. The system of claim 8 further comprising: at least one thermal seal positioned to allow said connector to exit said tray within which said controlled environment has been created. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said seal is a neoprene boot covering said pedestal. 12. The system of claim 10 further comprising: ducts positioned within said tray for allowing conditioned air. 13. A method for vibration testing a device, said method comprising: affixing a device under test (DUT) to a pedestal, said pedestal positioned within a holding tray, said pedestal initially supported by a surface of said holding tray; and positioning said holding tray and a vibration device located outside of said tray into proximity with each other such that a movable portion of said vibration device comes into contact with said pedestal so as to be able to impart movement to said pedestal; said positioning moving said pedestal away from said surface of said holding tray. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising: creating a sealed environment with respect to said DUT within said tray, said sealed environment not including said vibration device. 15. The method of claim 14 further comprising: allowing environmentally conditioned air to flow within a created sealed environment from a position outside of said tray. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein said pedestal comprises a connector positioned at a distal end of said pedestal outside of said tray; and temporarily mating said connector with a movable portion of said positioned vibrating device. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said temporarily mating comprises: creating a seal between said connector and said movable portion of said vibrating device. 18. An apparatus for vibration testing a device, said apparatus comprising: a holding tray having a base, said base having a first surface within said tray and a second surface outside of said tray, said surfaces separated by a plane of material; a pedestal positioned within said holding tray and supported by said first surface; a portion of said pedestal extending through said plane of material, and a connector at a distal end of said extending portion, said connector adapted for mating with a movable element of a vibrating device located outside of said tray. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein said pedestal comprises: at least one surface adapted for allowing device under test (DUT) to be supported in a particular orientation with respect to said first surface. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 further comprising: at least one seal positioned with respect to said extending portion to prevent atmosphere from inside said tray from passing through said plane of material. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said connector facilitates a vacuum seal with a connector from said vibration device. 22. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said pedestal comprises: means for allowing said pedestal to become supported other than by said tray when said pedestal is connected to said vibrating device. 23. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said tray comprises: means for allowing a sealed environment to be created around said tray, said sealed environment encompassing said tray top surface but not encompassing a distal end of said portion of said pedestal. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 further comprising: air flow ducts for allowing environmentally treated air to flow within a created sealed environment. 