A number of data storage cassettes are held in a removeable magazine that forms part of a tape drive by which the magnetic tapes are recorded or played. The magazine holds two parallel vertically-displaced decks of cassettes that are moved under positive driving force along a rectangular pathway formed by the two decks. From a pick-up position in the magazine, a cassette is automatically extracted by a robotic arm and placed in the tape platform for reading or writing by a conventional tape drive mechanism. When the use of the cassette is finished and it is ejected by the tape drive, a sensor activates the robotic arm to return the cassette to the pick-up position. Each deck has one unoccupied cassette space. If during the sequence of operations, the cassettes on the lower deck are moved by the width of one cassette in one direction, the cassettes on the upper deck are moved the same distance in the opposite direction. This movement results in a vacant position at the end of the upper deck farthest away from the pick-up position. The cassette in the pick-up position is either removed and loaded into the tape deck or the cycle is continued. Movement of the cassette is produced by reciprocating drivers along the sides of the magazines. The cassettes are moved in only one direction by the reciprocating drivers and are locked to prevent movement in the opposite direction. Motions of the cassette handling mechanisms are limited by mechanical stops that trigger an electronic circuit to interrupt the driving power eliminating the need for sensitive position switches. Slip clutches prevent mechanical damage from the mechanical stops. The removable magazine does not include any electric motor drives and is automatically disengaged from the cassette driving mechanism by its removal, thus permitting economical use of multiple magazines.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus for storing and manipulating cassettes having a magazine for storing cassettes comprising a first deck including means for supporting a plurality of cassettes in a first plane and having a designated cassette pick-up position, a second deck including means for supporting a plurality of cassettes in a second plane parallel with and displaced from said first plane, first reciprocating cassette drive means for moving each of said cassettes in said first deck in a first direction and simultaneously moving each of the cassettes in said second deck in the opposite direction including means for transferring said cassettes between said decks, whereby said cassettes are caused to successively be positioned in said pick-up position, and robot arm means for removing one of said cassettes from and replacing it in said pick-up position. 2. The combination as claimed in claim 1 wherein said reciprocating cassette drive means moves said cassettes in said first deck away from said pick-up position and said cassettes in said second deck toward said pick-up position. 3. The combination as claimed in claim 2 wherein said means for transferring said cassettes between said decks includes first deck transfer means for transferring a cassette from a predetermined position in said first deck to a parallel position in said second deck, and second deck transfer means for transferring a cassette from a predetermined position in said second deck to said pick-up position in said first deck. 4. The combination as claimed in claim 3 including retention means for retaining a cassette in said pick-up position subsequent to its transfer to prevent the return of said cassette to said second deck. 5. The combination as claimed in claim 3 wherein said reciprocating cassette drive means includes first and second horizontally movable ram means, said first ram means moving said cassettes in said first deck in a first direction relative to said pick-up position, said second ram means moving said cassettes in said second deck in a second direction opposite from said first direction. 6. The combination as claimed in claim 3 including locking means locking said cassettes in said first deck from movement in a direction toward said pick-up position and said cassettes in said second deck against movement in a direction away from said pick-up position. 7. The combination as claimed in claim 1 wherein said robot arm means includes gripper means having a movable clamping member for releasably supporting each of said cassettes while removing it from or replacing it in said pick-up position. 8. The combination as claimed in claim 7 including means responsive to said reciprocating player means for actuating said gripper means. 9. The combination as claimed in claim 7 wherein said gripper means includes rigid contact means for engaging one surface of one of said cassettes at not less than two spaced points, said clamping member engaging the opposite surface of said cassette, and rotary drive means forming part of said robot arm means for moving said clamping member into and out of engagement with said cassette. 10. The combination as claimed in claim 9 including spring bias means forming part of said rotary drive means for permitting limited movement of said clamping member by external forces. 11. The combination as claimed in claim 9 wherein said rotary drive means includes an electric motor, a lead screw connected to said motor, gripper actuating means operatively coupled to said lead screw, a mechanical stop limiting the stroke of said lead screw, and means for sensing the load on said motor for interrupting the operation of said motor when said gripper actuating means engages said mechanical stop. 12. The combination as claimed in claim 11 including resilient means interposed between said mechanical stop and said gripper actuating means for storing energy when said gripper actuating means comes to a stop and releasing said energy when the direction of movement of said gripper actuating means is reversed. 13. The combination as claimed in claim 12 wherein said resilient means comprises an O-ring of resilient material. 14. The combination as claimed in claim 7 including a tape drive having a pre-defined entrance position, sensor means responsive to the presence of a cassette in said entrance position to activate said gripper means to transfer said cassette to said pick-up position. 15. The combination as claimed in claim 7 including switch means responsive to motion of said gripper means in a direction away from said tape drive for interrupting the movement of said gripper means. 16. The combination as claimed in claim 15 including sensor means responsive to the presence of a cassette in said entrance position to re-activate the movement of said gripper means to transfer said cassette to said pick-up position. 17. The combination as claimed in claim 1 including an electric motor, means including a slip clutch connecting said motor to said reciprocating cassette drive means, means mechanically limiting the excursion of said reciprocating cassette drive means, and means responsive to increased load on said motor for interrupting the current to said motor. 18. The combination as claimed in claim 17 wherein said slip clutch comprises a bushing, and a rotatable sleeve surrounding said bushing and having a slightly oval shape whereby pressure is exerted between said sleeve and said bushing at diametrically opposing points. 19. The combination as claimed in claim 18 wherein said bushing is formed of plastic. 20. The combination as claimed in claim 18 wherein said collar is formed of spring steel. 21. The combination as claimed in claim 18 wherein said collar is formed of beryllium bronze. 22. The combination as claimed in claim 18 wherein said collar is formed of stainless steel. 23. The combination as claimed in claim 6 including a tape drive for recording on or playing from a tape cassette, a control lever having first, second and third triangularly spaced connecting points, motor drive means for reciprocating said control lever along a linear path in a plane parallel with the direction of movement of said cassettes in said decks, and track means for guiding said robot arm means along first and second restricted sequential paths, the first path extending substantially perpendicular to said plane of said decks and said second path extending generally parallel with the plane of said decks, whereby reciprocating movement of said drive means causes said robot arm means to move from a first position for placing said cassette into or removing it from one of said decks along a generally L-shaped path to a position for placing the cassette into or removing it from said tape drive. 24. The combination claimed in claim 23 including an electric motor having an output shaft coupled to said control lever, means for reversing the direction of rotation of said motor to produce the reciprocating movement of said control lever, and mechanical stop means for limiting the movement of said control lever in each direction. 25. The combination as claimed in claim 24 including a slip clutch interposed between said motor and said control lever, sensor means coupled to said electric motor for detecting increased motor load occasioned by said control lever abutting said mechanical stop means, and means under the control of said sensor means for deactivating said motor. 26. The combination as claimed in claim 25 wherein said slip clutch includes a bushing, and a collar of spring metal surrounding said bushing and having a generally slight oval shape and making contact with the outer surface of said bushing at opposing points. 27. The combination as claimed in claim 26 wherein said bushing is formed of plastic and said collar is formed of spring steel. 28. A tape drive and multiple-cassette storage system comprising a housing, a tape drive unit in said housing having a cassette entrance position, a removable magazine in said housing including a plurality of tape cassettes, a first deck supporting a plurality of said cassettes in a first plane and having a designated cassette pick-up position, a second deck supporting a plurality of said cassettes in a second plane displaced from and parallel with said first plane, first reciprocating drive means for moving said cassettes in said first deck in a first direction, second reciprocating drive means for moving said cassettes in said second deck simultaneously in the opposite direction from the movement of said cassettes in said first deck, first deck transfer means for transferring a cassette directly from said first deck to a first designated position in said second deck, and second deck transfer means for transferring a cassette from said second deck directly to a second designated position in said first deck, whereby said cassettes are caused to follow a rectangular path and successively occupy said pick-up position, and means for transferring a cassette from said pick-up position to said entrance position. 29. The combination as claimed in claim 28 including motor drive means in said housing operatively coupled to said first and second reciprocating drive means, and means automatically disconnecting said motor drive means from said first and second reciprocating drive means when said magazine is removed from said housing and reconnecting said drive means when the magazine is replaced. 30. The combination claimed in claim 29 including robot arm means for removing one of said cassettes from said pick-up position and delivering it to said entrance position and for returning said cassette from said entrance position to directly said pick-up position. 31. In a system for storing tape cassettes in a magazine and automatically removing them from and placing them in an entrance position to a tape drive, a cassette storage and transfer mechanism comprising a first deck supporting a plurality of cassettes in a first plane and having a designated pick-up position, a second deck supporting a plurality of decks in a second plane displaced from and parallel with said first plane, first reciprocating motor drive means for moving said cassettes along said decks and transferring said cassettes between said decks a rigid control member having first, second and third triangularly spaced connecting points, second reciprocating motor drive means for moving said rigid control member angularly about said third connecting point and for moving said third connecting point linearly in a plane parallel with said decks, means rotatably connecting said reciprocating drive means to said control member at said first connecting point, a gripper mechanism for clamping one of said cassettes, means for guiding said gripper mechanism along a first path generally perpendicular to the plane of said decks and a second path generally parallel with the plane of said decks, means rotatably connecting said control member and said gripper mechanism at said second connecting point, said last-said means providing limited linear movement along an axis between said second and third connecting points between said control member and said gripper mechanism, and means connected to said third connection point for moving said control member along a path parallel with the plane of said decks, whereby said gripper mechanism is caused to move from a first position to a second position for placing a cassette into or removing it from said entrance position. 32. The combination as claimed in claim 31 including sensor means for sensing the presence of a cassette at said entrance position after being ejected by said tape deck, and means responsive to said sensor means for transferring said cassette from said entrance position to said pick-up position. 33. In a system for storing tape cassettes and automatically removing them from and replacing them in a magazine, a cassette storage and transfer mechanism comprising a linear cassette storage deck in said magazine positioned in a first plane supporting a plurality of tape cassettes, and having a designated pick-up position, means for successively positioning said cassettes in said pick-up position, a cassette gripper mechanism having a flexible gripping member having open and closed positions for gripping a cassette to be transferred, a horizontally extending rotatable actuating member operatively coupled to said gripping member, a cam arm secured to said actuating member and extending in a second plane generally perpendicular to said first plane, a control member having a cam surface extending in a direction parallel with said second plane, first motor drive means for transporting said gripper mechanism in a direction generally parallel with said second plane while said cam arm slidably engages said cam surface for removing a cassette from or replacing it in said pick-up position, and second motor drive means for moving said control member in a direction generally paralled with said first plane thereby to close said gripping member at any position of said gripping mechanism. 34. A cassette storage magazine including first and second linear decks each containing a plurality of cassettes in side-by-side relation, said decks being positioned in parallel displaced planes, reciprocating drive means for moving said cassettes of said first deck laterally in a first direction and simultaneously moving said cassettes of said second deck in a second direction, means for locking said cassettes of said first deck in position and preventing movement thereof in a direction opposite from said first direction, and means actuated by said reciprocating drive means for transferring a cassette from a predetermined position in said first deck to a predetermined position in said second deck. 35. The method of storing tape cassettes and selectively positioning them in a predetermined position for transfer to and from an external device comprising the steps of providing a plurality of tape cassettes, providing a first linear cassette deck lying in a first plane and having a designated pick-up position, providing a second linear cassette deck lying in a second plane displaced from and parallel with said first plane, arranging part of said cassettes in side-by-side relation in said first deck, arranging the remainder of said cassettes in side-by-side relation in said second deck, moving said cassettes repetitively along a rectangular path encompassing said first and second decks whereby said cassettes are moved at a first location from said first to said second deck and at a second location from said second to said first deck and placed successively in said pick-up position, removing one of said cassettes from said pick-up position and transferring it to said external device, and subsequently returning said cassette from said external device directly to said pick-up position. 36. The method as claimed in claim 35 wherein said external device is a tape drive having a cassette entrance position, and said step of transferring said cassette to said external device includes the steps of gripping a cassette in said pick-up position, transporting said cassette first along a path perpendicular to the plane of said decks and secondly along a path parallel with the plane of said decks to said entrance position, and releasing said cassette. 37. The method as claimed in claim 36 wherein the step of returning said cassette directly to said pick-up position includes the steps of sensing the presense of a cassette ejected by said tape drive at said entrance position, gripping said cassette, transporting said cassette along an L-shaped path to said pick-up position, and releasing said cassette. 