A robotic wrist employs a plurality of elastomeric containers holding an electro-rheological fluid. An electromagnetic field can be selectively applied across the electro-rheological fluid within these elastomeric containers to selectively control the viscosity of the electro-rheological fluid and thereby control the stiffness of the elastomeric containers. Two sets of elastomeric containers can be used to control both the axial and radial stiffnesses of the wrist. In the preferred embodiment, the elastomeric containers have a hollow spherical shape. An electromagnetic field is created within the containers by applying a voltage between a conductive film on the interior surface of the sphere and second electrode extending through the sphere into the electro-rheological fluid.
Claims I claim: 1. A robotic wrist adapted to permit relative motion between a first member and a second member, said robotic wrist comprising: a first end secured to said first member; a second end secured to said second member adjacent to said first end; at least one elastomeric container separating said first end from said second end, each of said containers holding an electro-rheological fluid; and means for selectively applying an electromagnetic field across said electro-rheological fluid within said elastomeric container, thereby selectively controlling the stiffness of said elastomeric containers by controlling the viscosity of said electro-rheological fluid within said elastomeric containers. 2. The robotic wrist of claim 1, wherein said elastomeric container has a substantially spherical shape. 3. The robotic wrist of claim 1, wherein said first end and said second end are substantially parallel with a common central axis extending substantially normal to both of said ends, and a plurality of said elastomeric containers are positioned in a radial arrangement about said central axis. 4. The robotic wrist of claim 1 wherein said elastomeric container and means for applying an electromagnetic field comprise: an elastomeric shell with an interior cavity adapted to contain a quantity of electro-rheological fluid; a first electrode extending within said interior cavity of said shell; a second electrode extending within said interior cavity of said shell; and a voltage source adapted to apply a voltage across said first electrode and said second electrode. 5. The robotic wrist of claim 4 wherein said first electrode comprises a conductive film deposited on a portion of the surface of said interior cavity. 6. The robotic wrist of claim 4 wherein said second electrode comprises a conductive member extending through said shell into said interior cavity. 7. The robotic wrist of claim 1 wherein said first and second ends extend substantially normal from a common central axis and said elastomeric containers comprise: a plurality of axial elastomeric containers separating said first end from said second end, adapted to constrain axial compression of said first and second ends; a plurality of radial elastomeric containers separating said first end from said second end, adapted to constrain relative radial movement between said first end and said second end. 8. The robotic wrist of claim 7 wherein said axial elastomeric containers are positioned in a radial arrangement about said central axis. 9. The robotic wrist of claim 8 wherein said axial elastomeric containers are positioned between said first end and said second end at a predetermined angle of inclination with respect to said central axis, such that the center of compliance of said wrist can be controlled by selectively controlling the stiffness of said axial elastomeric containers. 10. The robotic wrist of claim 9 wherein said angle of inclination is approximately 20 degrees. 11. A robotic wrist adapted to permit relative motion between a first member and a second member, said robotic wrist comprising: a first end secured to said first member, extending substantially normal to a central axis; a second end secured to said second member adjacent to said first end, said second end extending substantially normal to said central axis; a plurality of axial elastomeric containers separating said first end from said second end, each of said containers holding an electro-rheological fluid, adapted to constrain axial compression of said first and second ends; a plurality of radial elastomeric containers separating said first end from said second end, each of said containers holding an electro-rheological fluid, adapted to constrain relative radial movement between said first end and said second end; and means for selectively applying an electromagnetic field across said electro-rheological fluid within said elastomeric containers, thereby selectively controlling the axial and radial stiffnesses of said elastomeric containers by controlling the viscosity of said electro-rheological fluid within said elastomeric containers. 12. The robotic wrist of claim 11, wherein said elastomeric containers have a substantially spherical shape. 13. The robotic wrist of claim 11, wherein said axial elastomeric containers are positioned in a radial arrangement about said central axis. 14. The robotic wrist of claim 13 wherein said axial elastomeric containers are positioned between said first end and said second end at a predetermined angle of inclination with respect to said central axis, such that the center of compliance of said wrist can be controlled by selectively controlling the stiffness of said axial elastomeric containers. 15. The robotic wrist of claim 14 wherein said angle of inclination is approximately 20 degrees. 16. The robotic wrist of claim 11, wherein said elastomeric containers and means for applying an electromagnetic field comprise: an elastomeric shell with an interior cavity adapted to contain a quantity of electro-rheological fluid; a first electrode extending within said interior cavity of said shell; a second electrode extending within said interior cavity of said shell; and a voltage source adapted to apply a voltage across said first electrode and said second electrode. 17. The robotic wrist of claim 16 wherein said first electrode comprises a conductive film deposited on a portion of the surface of said interior cavity. 18. The robotic wrist of claim 16 wherein said second electrode comprises a conductive member extending through said shell into said interior cavity. 19. A robotic wrist adapted to permit relative motion between a first member and a second member, said robotic wrist comprising: a first end secured to said first member, extending substantially radially outward from a central axis, and having: (a) a plurality of first radial faces extending substantially parallel to said central axis; and (b) a plurality of first axial faces positioned in a radial arrangement about said central axis, each of said first axial faces being inclined at a small predetermined angle radially outward from said central axis; a second end secured to said second member adjacent to said first end, said second end extending substantially normal to said central axis, and having: (a) a plurality of second radial faces extending substantially parallel to said central axis, each of said second radial faces being substantially in radial alignment with one of said first radial faces; and (b) a plurality of second axial faces positioned in a radial arrangement about said central axis; each of said second axial faces being inclined at a small predetermined angle radially inward to said central axis parallel to, and in alignment with one of said first axial faces; a plurality of axial elastomeric containers, each separating one of said first axial faces from a corresponding one of said second axial faces, each of said containers holding an electro-rheological fluid, adapted to constrain axial compression of said first and second ends; a plurality of radial elastomeric containers, each separating one of said first radial faces from a corresponding one of said second radial faces, each of said containers holding an electro-rheological fluid, adapted to constrain relative radial movement between said first end and said second end; and means for selectively applying an electromagnetic field across said electro-rheological fluid within said elastomeric containers, thereby selectively controlling the axial and radial stiffnesses of said elastomeric containers by controlling the viscosity of said electro-rheological fluid within said elastomeric containers. 20. The robotic wrist of claim 19 wherein said elastomeric containers and means for applying an electromagnetic field comprise: an elastomeric shell with an interior cavity adapted to contain a quantity of electro-rheological fluid; a first electrode extending within said interior cavity of said shell; a second electrode extending within said interior cavity of said shell; and a voltage source adapted to apply a voltage across said first electrode and said second electrode. 21. The robotic wrist of claim 19 wherein said first electrode comprises a conductive film deposited on a portion of the surface of said interior cavity. 22. The robotic wrist of claim 19 wherein said second electrode comprises a conductive member extending through said shell into said interior cavity. 23. The robotic wrist of claim 19 wherein said angle of inclination is approximately 20 degrees. 24. The robotic wrist of claim 19 wherein at least one of said elastomeric containers has a substantially spherical shape. 