Data analysis systems are provided, especially target imaging and identification systems, which utilize a CAM that associatively stores a plurality of known data sets such as target data sets in a synaptic interconnectivity matrix modeled upon the model of learning of neural networks. In accordance with preferred embodiments the systems are able to identify unknown objects when only a partial data set from the object is available. The system is robust and fast, utilizing parallel processing due to the massive interconnectivity of neural elements so that the image produced exhibits the properties of super-resolution. Since the system is modeled after a neural network, it is fault tolerant and highly reliable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data analysis system comprising: a first array for receiving input data comprising a plurality of neural elements for transmitting data signals; a memory matrix for processing the data signals transmitted by the elements of the first array, said memory matrix having associatively stored therein in accordance with a Hebbian model of learning for neural networks, at least one quantized feature space classifier of a known data set; a second array having a plurality of neural elements for receiving the data signals processed by the memory matrix; the neural elements of the second array being operatively coupled in feedback with the neural elements of the first array wherein the neural elements of the second array provide feedback input for the neural elements of the first array. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the neural elements of the first array comprise light emitting elements. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the neural elements of the second array comprise photo-detectors. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the feedback is electronic. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the neural elements of the first and second arrays are optical bistability devices. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the feedback is optical. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the feature space classifier of the known data set is stored auto-associatively. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the feature space classifier of the known data set is stored hetero-associatively. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the feature space classifier of the known data set is stored cyclic hetero-associatively. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for gathering electromagnetic scattering data for construction of the feature space classifier of a known data set. 11. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for gathering acoustical scattering data for construction of the feature space classifier of a known data set. 12. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for gathering electromagnetic scattering data for input to the first array. 13. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for gathering acoustical scattering data for input to the first array. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state auto-associatively. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state hetero-associatively. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state cyclic hetero-associatively. 17. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory matrix is synaptic. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory matrix is interconnected. 19. The system of claim 1, wherein the feature space classifier is a sinogram classifier. 20. A data analysis system comprising: a first array for receiving input data comprising a plurality of optical neural elements for transmitting optical data signals; a memory matrix for optically processing the optical data signals transmitted by the optical neural elements of the first array, said memory matrix having associatively stored therein in accordance with a Hebbian model of learning for neural networks, at least one quantized feature space classifier of a known data set; a second array comprising a plurality of optical neural elements for receiving the optical data signals processed by the memory matrix; the optical neural elements of the second array being operatively coupled in feedback with the optical neural elements of the first array whereby the neural elements of the second array provide feedback input for the neural elements of the first array. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the optical neural elements of the first array comprise light emitting elements. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the neural elements of the second array are photo-detectors. 23. The system of claim 20, wherein the feedback is electronic. 24. The system of claim 20, wherein the feedback is optical. 25. The system of claim 20, wherein the neural elements of the first and second arrays are optical bistability devices. 26. The system of claim 20, wherein the sinogram classifier of the data set is stored auto-associatively. 27. The system of claim 20, wherein the sinogram classifier of the known data set is stored hetero-associatively. 28. The system of claim 20, wherein the sinogram classifier of the known data set is stored cyclic hetero-associatively. 29. The system of claim 20, further comprising means for gathering electromagnetic scattering data for construction of the feature space classifier of a known data set. 30. The system of claim 20, further comprising means for gathering acoustical scattering data for construction of the feature space classifier of a known data set. 31. The system of claim 20, further comprising means for gathering electromagnetic scattering data for input to the first array. 32. The system of claim 20, further comprising means for gathering acoustical scattering data for input to the first array. 33. The system of claim 20, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state auto-associatively. 34. The system of claim 20, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state hetero-associatively. 35. The system of claim 20, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state cyclic hetero-associatively. 36. The system of claim 20, wherein the memory matrix is synaptic. 37. The system of claim 20, wherein the memory matrix is interconnected. 38. The system of claim 20, wherein the feature space classifier is a sinogram classifier. 39. A method of data analysis comprising the steps of: quantizing a feature space classifier of at least one known data set; associatively storing said quantized feature space classifier in a memory matrix in accordance with a Hebbian model of distributed memory of neural networks; inputting data signals to a first array comprising neural elements; transmitting the input data signals from the neural elements of the first array to the memory matrix for processing; receiving the processed data signals with a second array comprising neural elements; feeding back the signals received by the second array to the first array so that output from the second array becomes feedback input data for the first array. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein the feature space classifier is stored auto-associatively. 41. The method of claim 39, wherein the feature space classifier is stored hetero-associatively. 42. The method of claim 39, wherein the feature space classifier is stored cyclic hetero-associatively. 43. The method of claim 39, wherein the memory matrix is synaptic. 44. The method of claim 39, wherein the memory matrix is interconnected. 45. The method of claim 39, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state auto-associatively. 46. The method of claim 39, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state hetero-associatively. 47. The method of claim 39, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state cyclic hetero-associatively. 48. The method of claim 39, wherein the feature space classifier a sinogram classifier. 49. A method of data analysis comprising the steps of: quantizing a feature space classifier of at least one known data set; associatively storing said quantized feature space classifier in a memory matrix in accordance with a Hebbian model of distributed memory of neural networks; inputting data signals to a first array comprising optical neural elements; optically transmitting the input data signals from the optical neural elements of the first array to the memory matrix for optical processing; receiving the optically processed data signals with a second array comprising optical neural elements; feeding back the signals received by the second array to the first array so that output from the second array becomes feedback input data for the first array. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein the feature space classifier is stored auto-associatively. 51. The method of claim 49, wherein the feature space classifier is stored hetero-associatively. 52. The method of claim 49, wherein the feature space classifier is stored cyclic hetero-associatively. 53. The method of claim 49, wherein the memory matrix is synaptic. 54. The method of claim 49, wherein the memory matrix is interconnected. 55. The method of claim 49, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state auto-associatively. 56. The method of claim 49, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state hetero-associatively. 57. The method of claim 49, wherein the feedback input reaches steady state cyclic hetero-associatively. 58. The method of claim 49, wherein the feature space classifier is a sinogram classifier. 59. The system of claim 19 wherein the sinogram classifier is binarized in a unipolar binary matrix and stored in the Hebbian memory matrix. 