Gasket formed in place on a surface of an article by producing an initial elongated bead of a selected cross-sectional area and bringing a mold cavity having the same cross-sectional area into contact with the surface to produce the final shape of the bead on the surface.
Claims The invention having been thus described, what is claimed as new and desired to secure by Letters Patent is: 1. A method of forming a flexible gasket directly onto a surface of at least one part of a mating multipart article, comprising the steps of: (a) forming an elongated bead on a surface of at least one part of a mating multipart article of an extrudable thermoplastic mixture which is moisture curable to form a thermoset polymer, the polymeric material being extruded in a predetermined configuration and volume, wherein the thermoplastic mixture is formed by combining a first and a second component, wherein the first component is a moisture curable polymer which, when exposed to moisture, becomes thermoset; and the second component is a non-crosslinked elastomer; (b) contacting the bead and the surface with a mold having a primary mold cavity of the same general configuration and volume as the bead, and the cross-sectional configuration and dimensions of the finished gasket, the contact resulting in a continuous gasket with no visible seam therein; and (c) exposing the shaped thermoplastic gasket to moisture thereby bringing about polymerization of the thermoplastic mixture which renders the mixture thermoset. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) the first component of the thermoplastic mixture is a primary polymer having a polyester backbone and isocyanate end groups that are capable of chemically reacting with each other in the presence of moisture to form a derivative polymer having a longer average chain length than the primary polymer; and (b) the second component of the thermoplastic mixture is a non-crosslinked elastomer that is not substantially chemically reactive with itself or with the first component in the presence of moisture, wherein the first and the second are intimately mixed to form the thermoplastic mixture; the thermoplastic mixture when maintained in the absence of moisture and other active hydrogen donor materials, is a readily extrudable and otherwise conventionally moldable thermoplastic composition, but which, upon exposure to moisture, becomes essentially thermoset. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the second component is selected from the group consisting of styrene-isoprene-styrene block polymers, styrene-butadiene-styrene block polymers, isoprene homopolymer, polyvinyl chloride, polyisobutylene, styrene-ethylene-butylene-styrene, and ethylene-propylene rubber. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the thermoplastic mixture when exposed to a relative humidity of 10% to 100% for at least 5 minutes, or when submerged in water at 0.degree. C. to 100.degree. C., the polymer mixture becomes an essentially thermoset elastomeric material. 5. A method of forming a flexible gasket directly onto a surface of at least one part of a mating multipart article, comprising the steps of: (a) extruding an elongated bead of an extrudable thermoplastic mixture which is moisture curable to form a thermoset polymer in a predetermined configuration and volume, the extruding being into a primary mold cavity which is one part of a mating multipart article of the same general configuration and volume as the bead and of the same general cross-sectional configuration and dimensions as the unfinished gasket, wherein the thermoplastic mixture is formed by combining a first and a second component, wherein the first component is a moisture curable polymer which, when exposed to moisture, becomes thermoset; and the second component is a non-crosslinked elastomer; (b) contacting the bead with a surface of the multi-part article, the contact, the contact resulting in a continuous gasket with no visible seam therein; and (c) exposing the shaped thermoplastic gasket to moisture thereby bringing about polymerization of the thermoplastic mixture which renders the mixture thermoset. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein (a) the first component of the thermoplastic mixture is a primary polymer having a polyester backbone and isocyanate end groups that are capable of chemically reacting with each other in the presence of moisture to form a derivative polymer having a longer average chain length than the primary polymer; and (b) the second component of the thermoplastic mixture is a non-crosslinked elastomer that is not substantially chemically reactive with itself or with the first component in the presence of moisture, wherein the first and the second are intimately mixed to form the thermoplastic mixture; the thermoplastic mixture when maintained in the absence of moisture and other active hydrogen donor materials, is a readily extrudable and otherwise conventionally moldable thermoplastic composition, but which, upon exposure to moisture, becomes essentially thermoset. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the second component is selected from the group consisting of styrene-isoprene-styrene block polymers, styrene-butadiene-styrene block polymers, isoprene homopolymer, polyvinyl chloride, polyisobutylene, styrene-ethylene-butylene-styrene, and ethylene-propylene rubber. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the thermoplastic mixture when exposed to a relative humidity of 10% to 100% for at least 5 minutes, or when submerged in water at 0.degree. C. to 100.degree. C., the polymer mixture becomes an essentially thermoset elastomeric material. 9. A method of forming a flexible gasket directly onto a surface of at least one part of a mating multipart article, comprising the steps of: (a) forming one part of a multi-part article in a secondary cavity in a closed mold with a surface exposed to a primary mold cavity; (b) injecting an injectable thermoplastic mixture which is moisture curable to form a thermoset polymer in a predetermined configuration and volume, the injecting being into the primary mold cavity which comprises a second part of the mating multi-part article and is of the cross-sectional configuration and dimensions as the finished gasket, wherein the thermoplastic mixture is formed by combining a first and a second component, wherein the first component is a moisture curable polymer which, when exposed to moisture, becomes thermoset; and the second component is a non-crosslinked elastomer; (c) contacting the primary mold cavity with the surface, the contact resulting in a continuous gasket with no visible seam therein; and (d) exposing the shaped thermoplastic gasket to moisture thereby bringing about polymerization of the thermoplastic mixture which renders the mixture thermoset. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein (a) the first component of the thermoplastic mixture is a primary polymer having a polyester backbone and isocyanate end groups that are capable of chemically reacting with each other in the presence of moisture to form a derivative polymer having a longer average chain length than the primary polymer; and (b) the second component of the thermoplastic mixture is a non-crosslinked elastomer that is not substantially chemically reactive with itself or with the first component in the presence of moisture, wherein the first and the second are intimately mixed to form the thermoplastic mixture; the thermoplastic mixture when maintained in the absence of moisture and other active hydrogen donor materials, is a readily extrudable and otherwise conventionally moldable thermoplastic composition, but which, upon exposure to moisture, becomes essentially thermoset. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the second component is selected from the group consisting of styrene-isoprene-styrene block polymers, styrene-butadiene-styrene block polymers, isoprene homopolymer, polyvinyl chloride, polyisobutylene, styrene-ethylene-butylene-styrene, and ethylene-propylene rubber. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the thermoplastic mixture when exposed to a relative humidity of 10% to 100% for at least 5 minutes, or when submerged in water at 0.degree. C. to 100.degree. C., the polymer mixture becomes an essentially thermoset elastomeric material. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the part of the multi-part article of step (a) is formed in situ. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein (a) the first component of the thermoplastic mixture is a primary polymer having a polyester backbone and isocyanate end groups that are capable of chemically reacting with each other in the presence of moisture to form a derivative polymer having a longer average chain length than the primary polymer; and (b) the second component of the thermoplastic mixture is a non-crosslinked elastomer that is not substantially chemically reactive with itself or with the first component in the presence of moisture, wherein the first and the second are intimately mixed to form the thermoplastic mixture; the thermoplastic mixture when maintained in the absence of moisture and other active hydrogen donor materials, is a readily extrudable and otherwise conventionally moldable thermoplastic composition, but which, upon exposure to moisture, becomes essentially thermoset. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the second component is selected from the group consisting of styrene-isoprene-styrene block polymers, styrene-butadiene-styrene block polymers, isoprene homopolymer, polyvinyl chloride, polyisobutylene, styrene-ethylene-butylene-styrene, and ethylene-propylene rubber. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the thermoplastic mixture when exposed to a relative humidity of 10% to 100% for at least 5 minutes, or when submerged in water at 0.degree. C. to 100.degree. C., the polymer mixture becomes an essentially thermoset elastomeric material. 