A split rail gripper for robotic apparatus and including a pair of rails which are driven in mutually opposite directions by a rack and pinion gear mechanism. Each rail includes a set of rack gear teeth which engage respective pinion gears and where the top rail engaging one of the pinion gears is driven by a harmonic gear reduction drive and motor unit coupled to an drive screw. The other pinion gear is driven by the top pinion gear engaging a set of rack gear teeth included in the bottom rail. As the top rail is driven in or out, the upper pinion gear is rotated, causing the other pinion gear, in turn, to rotate in the opposite direction. This causes the bottom rail to move in an opposite linear direction relative to the top rail. An outwardly extending gripper finger assembly is attached to respective ends of the rails, with each gripper finger including an arrangement of vertically and horizontally mounted roller members which operate to automatically center and engage an H-plate type interface secured to the object being grasped. The gripper assembly also includes a base plate attached to an interface plate of a robotic tool changer mechanism. A retractable rotary tool driver and tool is also centrally mounted on the base plate.
Claims I claim: 1. Split-rail robotic gripper apparatus, comprising: a base; a first and a second elongated rail located on said base and being movable in mutually opposite directions and supported by four crossed-roller bearings; housing means for holding said rails against said bearings; two of said bearings being located in parallel between the rails, the other two of said bearings being located between said housing means and said first and second rails, respectively, whereby each said rail is supported by three of said bearings in a triangular configuration; respective outwardly extending gripper finger means attached to said first and second rails for grasping and holding an object to be gripped; rack and pinion gear means coupling said rails together for providing simultaneous linear movement in mutually opposite directions when driven; and drive motor means coupled to said first elongated rail for driving said rails and gripper finger means in and out of engagement with said object to be gripped. 2. The gripper apparatus of claim 1 wherein said rack and pinion gear means comprises, first rack gear means on said first rail, first pinion gear means engaging said first rack gear means, second rack gear means on said second rail, and second pinion gear means engaging both said first pinion gear means and said second rack means. 3. The gripper apparatus of claim 2 wherein said first and second rack gear means are respectively located on the sides of said first and second rails and wherein said first and second pinion gear means are located adjacent the sides of said first and second rack means on said rails for engaging said first and second rails. 4. The gripper apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first rail comprises a top rail of two generally horizontal rails, and wherein said second rail comprises a bottom rail of said two rails. 5. The gripper apparatus of claim 3 wherein said drive motor means coupled to said first elongated rail includes gear reduction means coupled to said drive motor means. 6. The gripper apparatus of claim 5 wherein said drive motor means coupled to said first elongated rail further includes a captive nut rotatably driven by said gear reduction means and a non-rotatable drive screw threaded onto said captive nut toward one end and coupled at the other end to said first rail. 7. The gripper apparatus of claim 6 wherein the other end of said drive screw is coupled to said first rail adjacent the gripper finger means attached to said first rail. 8. The gripper apparatus of claim 7 and additionally including ball and socket coupling means coupling said drive screw to said first rail. 9. The gripper apparatus of claim 5 wherein said gear reduction means comprises a harmonic gear reduction drive. 10. The gripper apparatus of claim 2 wherein each said gripper finger means includes roller means at the outward ends thereof for engaging an interface plate on said object to be gripped. 11. The gripper apparatus of claim 10 wherein said roller means comprises a first and a second pair of spaced apart roller members respectively aligned along first and second parallel axes and a fifth roller located between said pairs of rollers and aligned along a third axis orthogonal to said first and second axis. 12. The gripper apparatus of claim 11 wherein said third axis intersects said first and second axes. 13. The gripper apparatus of claim 2 and additionally including a drive motor mount located between said base and said drive motor means and including a load cell thereon for measuring the gripping force exerted by said gripper finger means. 14. The gripper apparatus of claim 6 and additionally including mounting means located between said gear reduction means coupled to said drive motor means and said baseplate means, said mounting means further including a load cell mounted thereon for sensing the force exerted by said drive motor on said gripper finger means via said drive screw. 15. The gripper apparatus of claim 14 wherein said mounting means comprises top and bottom wall sections separated by at least one blade type element which flexes in the direction along a longitudinal axis of said drive screw, and wherein said load cell is connected between said blade type element and one of said wall sections. 16. The gripper apparatus of claim 15 wherein said top and bottom wall sections are separated by two spaced apart blade type elements. 17. The gripper apparatus of claim 2 and additionally including tool driver means located on said base between said gripper finger means, and another drive motor means coupled to said tool drive means for supplying power to said tool driver means. 18. The gripper apparatus of claim 17 wherein said tool driver means includes at least one outwardly extending telescoping section. 19. The gripper apparatus of claim 18 and additionally including a detachable tool on said tool driver means for engaging said object to be gripped. 