A robotic system implements a collision avoidance scheme and includes a first robotic manipulator and a first controller configured to control the first robotic manipulator for movement along a first pre-planned actual path. A second controller is configured to control movement of a second robotic manipulator for movement along a second pre-planned intended path and deviating therefrom to move in a dodging path away from the first pre-planned actual path based upon determining a potential collision with the first robotic manipulator without prior knowledge of the first pre-planned actual path.
Claims That which is claimed is: 1. A robotic apparatus implementing a collision avoidance scheme, comprising: a first robotic manipulator; a first controller configured to control said first robotic manipulator for movement along a first pre-planned actual path; and a second robotic manipulator; and a second controller configured to control movement of said second robotic manipulator for movement along a second pre-planned intended path and deviating therefrom to move in a dodging path away from the first pre-planned actual path based upon determining a potential collision with said first robotic manipulator without prior knowledge of the first pre-planned actual path. 2. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first robotic manipulator comprises at least one joint and a joint sensor cooperating with said at least one joint and said first controller for determining positioning of the at least one joint; and wherein said second controller determines the potential collision based upon the positioning of the at least one joint. 3. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a visual sensor; and wherein said second controller determines the potential collision based upon said visual sensor. 4. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said second controller repeatedly determines a distance between said second robotic manipulator and said first robotic manipulator and compares the distance to at least one threshold distance to thereby determine a potential collision. 5. The robotic apparatus of claim 4, wherein said second controller also repeatedly determines an approach velocity between said second robotic manipulator and said first robotic manipulator; and wherein said second controller also determines the potential collision based upon the approach velocity. 6. The robotic apparatus of claim 4, wherein said second controller also repeatedly determines an approach velocity between said second robotic manipulator and said first robotic manipulator; and wherein said second controller also determines the potential collision based upon the approach velocity. 7. The robotic apparatus of claim 6, wherein said second controller moves said second robotic manipulator at different speeds based upon the approach velocity. 8. The robotic apparatus of claim 4, wherein said second controller also repeatedly determines an acceleration of said first robotic manipulator; and wherein said second controller also determines the potential collision based upon the acceleration. 9. The robotic apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second pre-planned intended path is based upon a sequence of desired velocities; and wherein said second controller moves said second robotic manipulator along the dodging path based upon a sequence of dodge velocities to avoid the potential collisions while closely following the sequence of desired velocities of the second pre-planned intended path. 10. The robotic apparatus of claim 9, wherein said second robotic manipulator comprises at least one joint; and wherein said second controller determines the sequence of dodge velocities based upon a force on said at least one joint. 11. The robotic apparatus of claim 10, wherein said second controller determines the sequence of dodge velocities based upon a plurality of convex sets of allowable velocities. 12. The robotic apparatus of claim 9, wherein the sequence of dodge velocities comprises at least one velocity in each of a plurality of physical directions. 13. The robotic apparatus of claim 9, wherein said second controller also determines the sequence of dodge velocities based upon kinetic energy of said second robotic manipulator. 14. A robotic apparatus implementing a collision avoidance scheme to avoid a collision with a first robotic manipulator controlled by a first controller for movement along a first pre-planned actual path, the robotic apparatus comprising: a second robotic manipulator; and a second controller configured to control movement of said second robotic manipulator for movement along a second pre-planned intended path and deviating therefrom to move in a dodging path away from the first pre-planned actual path based upon determining a potential collision with the first robotic manipulator without prior knowledge of the first pre-planned actual path. 15. The robotic apparatus of claim 14, wherein said second controller repeatedly determines a distance between said second robotic manipulator and said first robotic manipulator and compares the distance to at least one threshold distance to thereby determine a potential collision. 16. The robotic apparatus of claim 14, wherein the second pre-planned intended path is based upon a sequence of desired velocities; and wherein said second controller moves said second robotic manipulator along the dodging path based upon a sequence of dodge velocities to avoid the potential collisions while closely following the sequence of desired velocities of the second pre-planned intended path. 17. A method of operating a robotic apparatus according to a collision avoidance scheme to avoid a collision with a first robotic manipulator controlled by a first controller for movement along a first pre-planned actual path, the method comprising: controlling a second robotic manipulator with a second controller for movement along a second pre-planned intended path; controlling the second robotic manipulator with the second controller for movement in a dodging path away from the first pre-planned actual path based upon determining a potential collision with the first robotic manipulator without prior knowledge of the first pre-planned actual path. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising determining positioning of at least one joint of the first robotic manipulator based upon a joint sensor thereof; and wherein the potential collision is determined by the second controller based upon the positioning of the at least one joint. 19. The method of claim 17, further comprising configuring the second controller to repeatedly determine a distance between the second robotic manipulator and the first robotic manipulator and compare the distance to at least one threshold distance to thereby determine a potential collision. 20. The method of claim 17, further comprising configuring the second controller to repeatedly determine a distance between the second robotic manipulator and the first robotic manipulator to determine a potential collision therebetween; further comprising storing a geometric model of the first and second robotic manipulators in the second controller; and wherein the distance between the second robotic manipulator and the first robotic manipulator is determined based upon a distance between the geometric models of the second robotic manipulator and the first robotic manipulator. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein each geometric model includes a series of buffer zones surrounding a respective robotic manipulator; and wherein a potential collision between the second robotic manipulator and the first robotic manipulator is determined based upon an overlap between the respective buffer zones of the first robotic manipulator and the second robotic manipulator. 