The present invention provides meta-materials with an actively controllable mechanical property. The meta-material includes a deformable structure and a set of activation elements. The activation elements are controllable between multiple states. The meta-material includes a first value for a mechanical property when one or more of the activation elements is in the first activation state and includes a second value for the mechanical property when the activation elements have been activated to the second activation state. In one aspect, the meta-material resembles a composite material where the connectivity between the component materials or shape and arrangement of the component materials is dynamically controllable so as to affect a mechanical property of the meta-material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a deformable meta-material, the method comprising: coupling a plurality of activation elements to a deformable structure in a cantilevered arrangement to result in a meta-material, wherein at least some of the plurality of activation elements each includes a rigid component and an electrode, and also overlaps and physically contacts an adjacent activation element; and configuring the meta-material to be selectively deformable, such that the meta-material deforms and acquires a new shape when an external force is applied to one or more of said plurality of activation elements that are in a deactivated state, and such that the meta-material does not deform or acquire a new shape when said external force is applied and when said one or more of said plurality of activation elements are in an activated state. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the meta-material includes from about 10 to 100 activation elements. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of activation elements collectively forms a continuous rigid layer when said plurality of activation elements are in an activated state. 4. A method of changing the shape of a meta-material, the meta-material comprising a deformable structure and a plurality of activation elements coupled to the deformable structure, the method comprising: at least partially deactivating one or more activation elements from the plurality of activation elements, wherein at least some of said deactivated activation elements each includes a rigid component and an electrode, and also partially laterally overlaps and physically contacts an adjacent activation element in a cantilevered arrangement; applying a force to the deformable structure such that the meta-material acquires a new shape and the deformable structure deforms accordingly, wherein the outer surface of the deformable structure is substantially covered by said plurality of activation elements where the deformable structure has deformed; and reactivating the one or more deactivated activation elements when the meta-material acquires the new shape. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the deactivated activation elements are deactivated such that the overall meta-material decreases in stiffness from a first stiffness to a lower second stiffness. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first stiffness is greater than about 100 MPa and the second stiffness is less than about 10 MPa. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein reactivating the one or more activation elements comprises applying an electrostatic clamping voltage to the one or more activation elements. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the electrostatic clamping voltage includes an AC signal. 9. The method of claim 4, wherein the activation elements are deactivated such that the meta-material is compliant to an external force that moves the deformable structure. 10. The method of claim 4, wherein the meta-material is included in one of: an airplane or other air vehicle, a car or other land vehicle or a robot, orthotic, prosthetic or unmanned system. 11. The method of claim 4, wherein activation and deactivation results in different first and second states of the activation elements, and wherein the second state includes a different connectivity between the activation elements than a connectivity between the activation elements in the first state. 12. The method of claim 4, wherein said step of applying a force results in a relative motion in a first lateral direction in the deformable structure. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said step of reactivating the one or more deactivated activation elements results in the creation of an electrostatic clamp that prevents relative motion in said first lateral direction in the deformable structure. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said electrostatic clamp results from an electrostatic force exerted between at least two activation elements participating in the electrostatic clamp, and wherein said electrostatic force is substantially perpendicular to said first lateral direction. 15. The method of claim 4, wherein said force is inadequate to deform said deformable structure when said one or more activation elements are reactivated. 16. The method of claim 4, wherein said step of applying a force results in the meta-material absorbing energy from said force. 17. The method of claim 4, wherein said step of at least partially deactivating one or more activation elements occurs before said force is great enough to cause a structural failure of the material comprising one of the one or more activation elements. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said structural failure is a plastic deformation of the material. 19. A method of changing the shape of a deformable structure, comprising: applying an external force to a deformable structure having a first shape, wherein said deformable structure is coupled to a plurality of activation elements in an activated state, and wherein at least some of said plurality of activation elements each includes a rigid component and an electrode, and also partially laterally overlaps and physically contacts an adjacent activation element in a cantilevered arrangement; at least partially deactivating at least a portion of said plurality of activation elements; permitting the shape of said deformable structure to change from said first shape to a different second shape as a result of said at least a portion of said plurality of activation elements being deactivated while said external force is applied to the deformable structure, wherein the outer surface of the deformable structure is substantially covered by said plurality of activation elements where the deformable structure has deformed; and reactivating said at least a portion of said plurality of activation elements into the activated state after said deformable structure acquires the second shape, wherein said external force is insufficient to change the shape of said deformable structure when said plurality of activation elements are in the activated state. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising the step of: coupling said plurality of activation elements to the deformable structure. 