A powered mobility device for advancing cognitive, perceptual and motor abilities of a child lacking natural mobility is disclosed. The device includes a seat sized for the child to be secured therein and a motorized drive assembly coupled to the seat. A local operating instrument is operably coupled to the drive assembly for operating and steering the drive assembly. The local operating instrument is positioned to allow manipulation by the child seated in the seat. A processor is operatively coupled to the motorized drive assembly and to a local steering instrument. The processor is adapted to transmit a signal to the motorized drive assembly and the local steering instrument to control the mobility device. A method for advancing cognitive, perceptual and motor abilities of a child by using the device is also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A powered mobility device for advancing cognitive, perceptual and motor abilities of a child lacking natural mobility, the device comprising: a seat sized for the child to be secured therein; a motorized drive assembly coupled to the seat; a local operating instrument operably coupled to the drive assembly for operating and steering the drive assembly, the local operating instrument positioned to allow manipulation by the child seated in the seat; a processor operatively coupled to the motorized drive assembly and to a local steering instrument, wherein the processor is adapted to transmit a signal to the motorized drive assembly and the local steering instrument to control the mobility device; and a remotely operated steering instrument in operative communication with the drive assembly, wherein the remotely operated steering instrument is programmed to override signals transmitted to the drive assembly by the local operating instrument. 2. The powered mobility device according to claim 1, further comprising at least one sensor mounted on the device for sensing an obstacle in the path of the device. 3. The powered mobility device according to claim 2, wherein the drive assembly is programmable to respond to input from the at least one sensor to either steer away from the obstacle or to stop. 4. The powered mobility device according to claim 3, wherein the processor transmits the signal to the local steering instrument based on the input from the at least one sensor. 5. The powered mobility device according to clam 1, wherein the local operating instrument further comprises a diversionary device coupled thereto. 6. The powered mobility device according to claim 1, further comprising a visual recording instrument coupled to the device and positioned to record facial expressions of a user in the seat. 7. The powered mobility device according to claim 1, further comprising a recording device to record signals transmitted to the motorized drive assembly. 8. The powered mobility device according to claim 7, wherein the recording device is separate from the motorized drive assembly. 9. The powered mobility device according to claim 1, wherein the seat and the motorized drive assembly are discrete units, in which the motorized drive assembly is coupled to a front portion of the seat. 10. The powered mobility device according to claim 1, wherein the local operating instrument is a joystick mounted to the drive assembly. 11. A method for advancing cognitive, perceptual and motor abilities of a child, the method comprising the steps of: a) placing the child in a seat of a powered mobility device comprising: the seat, the seat being sized for the child to be secured therein; a motorized drive assembly coupled to the seat; a local operating instrument operably coupled to the drive assembly for operating and steering the drive assembly, the local operating instrument positioned to allow manipulation by the child seated in the seat; a processor operatively coupled to the motorized drive assembly and to a local steering instrument, wherein the processor is adapted to transmit a signal to the motorized drive assembly and the local steering instrument to control the mobility device; and a recording device to record signals transmitted to the motorized drive assembly; b) encouraging the child to touch the local operating instrument; c) allowing the child to drive the device through operation of the local operating instrument; d) repeating steps (a)-(c) in multiple operating sessions; and e) recording data for the multiple operating sessions and tracking improvements in cognitive, perceptual and/or motor abilities of the child using the recorded data. 12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising the step of using a remotely-operated steering instrument to override signals transmitted by the local operating instrument to steer the device in a desired direction. 13. The method according to claim 11, further comprising the steps of: allowing the device to sense an obstacle; and automatically steering away from the obstacle or stopping the device. 14. The method according to claim 11, further comprising the step of transmitting a signal to the local operating instrument to manipulate the local operating instrument in a desired direction. 15. The method according to claim 11, wherein the child is an infant or a child with special needs. 16. A powered mobility device for children with limited personal mobility, the device comprising: a robotic drive assembly having a seat; a local operating instrument coupled to the robotic drive assembly to operate and steer the drive assembly, the local operating instrument being operable by a child seated in the seat; a plurality of sensors coupled to the robotic drive assembly and to the seat, wherein the robotic drive assembly is programmable to respond to input from the plurality of sensors to change direction of the mobility device and wherein the local operating instrument is programmable to move in response to the input; and a remotely operated steering instrument in operative communication with the drive assembly, wherein the remotely operated steering instrument is programmed to override signals transmitted to the drive assembly by the local operating instrument. 17. The powered mobility device according to claim 16, wherein the local operating instrument is adapted to be manipulated toward a direction commensurate with the change in the direction of the mobility device. 18. The powered mobility device according to claim 16, further comprising a processor adapted to receive a plurality of signals generated by the local operating instrument and the plurality of sensors and adapted to transmit an operating signal to the robotic drive assembly based on the plurality of signals. 