A robot has a flexible power transmission member, an input rotation axis rotated by a power generation source, a driving link connected at both ends of the flexible power transmission member, which transmits a rotation torque of the input rotation axis to the flexible power transmission member, and a driven pulley around which the flexible power transmission member is hung.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a flexible power transmission member; an input rotation axis rotated by a power generation source; a driving link connected at both ends of the flexible power transmission member, which transmits a rotation torque of the input rotation axis to the flexible power transmission member; and a driven pulley around which the flexible power transmission member is hung, wherein the input rotation axis has a first notch; and the driving link has a second notch capable of engaging with the first notch, engagement between the first notch and the second notch being released when an overload is exerted on at least one of the driving link or the driven pulley, and the first notch and the second notch being again engaged with each other when the overload is removed. 2. The robot according to claim 1, wherein a length of the driving link is longer than a diameter of the driven pulley. 3. The robot according to claim 1, further comprising: a clamping member which fixes the flexible power transmission member passing through an opening formed in the driving link between the driving link and the driven pulley, wherein the flexible power transmission member is hung through the driving link by passing through the opening; and the flexible power transmission member is doubly connected between the clamping member and the driving link, and is singularly connected between the clamping member and the driven pulley. 4. The robot according to claim 3, wherein the clamping member is arranged closer to the driven pulley than an intermediate position between the driving link and the driven pulley. 5. The robot according to claim 3, further comprising: a clamping member attached to the driving link, the clamping member fixing the flexible power transmission member to the driving link. 6. The robot according to claim 1, further comprising: a contact detector which detects an engagement state between the first notch and the second notch. 7. The robot according to claim 1, further comprising: an electromagnet which generates at least either of attraction or repulsion between the first notch and the second notch. 8. The robot according to claim 1, further comprising: a strain gauge attached to the driving link or the flexible power transmission member, which measures a tension exerted to the flexible power transmission member. 9. The robot according to claim 1, wherein the second notch is deeper than the first notch. 