A gravitational compensating system that eliminates gravitational torque of linked robotic arms is provided. A three arm embodiment is disclosed which rotates around a vertical reference axis. The second and third arm rotate around two separate horizontal axes. The gravitational compensating system compensates for the gravitational torque attributed to the second arm as it rotates about its horizontal swing axis and the gravitational torque attributable to the third arm as it rotates about its horizontal swing axis. The combined actuating and compensating systems for the second and third arm are housed in the base structure of the first arm. The compensating system also applies to two arm embodiments.
Claims We claim: 1. In a robot linkage having at least three arms which swing about a vertical reference axis, a gravitational compensating system which eliminates gravitational torque of the each arm, the system comprising: a first rigid arm which is rotatable about the vertical reference axis, the first arm having an inner overcenter portion and an outer portion projecting outwardly from the vertical reference axis in a direction opposite to the overcenter portion, the overcenter portion connected to and providing a housing for a first fluid cylinder and a second fluid cylinder which actuate movement of a second arm and a third arm respectively, the second arm being swingable about a first horizontal swing axis, the first horizontal swing axis being disposed at the outer portion of the first arm, the second arm imposing a variable moment about the first horizontal swing axis as the second arm rotates about the first horizontal swing axis, the third arm being swingable about a second horizontal swing axis, the second horizontal swing axis being carried by an outer portion of the second arm, the third arm imposing a variable moment about the second horizontal swing axis as the third arm rotates about the second horizontal swing axis, the first fluid cylinder pivotally connected to the overcenter portion of the first arm and pivotally connected to the second arm by a first piston rod and a first crank link means, the first piston rod being generally parallel with the first crank link means when the moment imposed by the second arm about the first horizontal swing axis is at a minimum, the first piston rod being generally perpendicular with the first crank link means when the moment imposed by the second arm about the first horizontal swing axis is at a maximum, the first fluid cylinder further imposing a force on the first crank link means to counterbalance the moment imposed by the second arm about the first horizontal swing axis, the second fluid cylinder pivotally connected to the overcenter portion of the first rod which is connected to a second crank link means which is connected to a sprocket system which is connected to the third arm, the second piston rod being generally parallel with the second crank link means when the moment imposed by the third arm about the second horizontal swing axis is at a minimum, the second piston rod being generally perpendicular with the second crank link means when the moment imposed by the third arm about the second horizontal swing axis is at a maximum, the second fluid cylinder further imposing a force on the second crank link means to counterbalance the moment imposed by the third arm about the second horizontal swing axis. 2. The gravitational compensating system of claim 1, wherein the sprocket system is further characterized in that second crank link means is connected to a drive member rotatable about a horizontal axis, the drive member being a chain connected to an inner end portion of the third arm. 3. The gravitational compensating system of claim 2, wherein the first horizontal swing axis and the horizontal axis are coextensive. 4. The gravitational compensating system of claim 1, wherein the first piston rod is pivotally connected to the first crank link means at a position radially offset from the first horizontal swing axis. 5. The gravitational compensating system of claim 4, wherein the second piston rod is pivotally connected to the second crank link means at a position radially offset from the second horizontal swing axis. 6. The gravitational compensating system of claim 5, wherein the first fluid cylinder and the second fluid cylinder are pivotally connected to the overcenter portion of the first arm at a common pivot bar. 7. In a robot linkage having at least two arms which swing about a vertical reference axis, a gravitational compensating system which eliminates gravitational torque of the each arm, the system comprising: a first rigid arm which is rotatable about the vertical reference axis, the first arm having an inner overcenter portion and an outer portion projecting outwardly from the vertical reference axis in a direction opposite to the overcenter portion, the overcenter portion connected to and providing a housing for a first fluid cylinder which actuates movement of a second arm, the second arm being swingable about a first horizontal swing axis, the first horizontal swing axis being disposed at the outer portion of the first arm, the second arm imposing a variable moment about the first horizontal swing axis as the second arm rotates about the first horizontal swing axis, the first fluid cylinder pivotally connected to the overcenter portion of the first arm and pivotally connected to the second arm by a first piston rod and a first crank link means, the first piston rod being generally parallel with the first crank link means when the moment imposed by the second arm about the first horizontal swing axis is at a minimum, the first piston rod being generally perpendicular with the first crank link means when the moment imposed by the second arm about the first horizontal swing axis is at a maximum, the first fluid cylinder further imposing a force on the first crank link means to counterbalance the moment imposed by the second arm about the first horizontal swing axis. 8. The gravitational compensating system of claim 7, wherein the first piston rod is pivotally connected to the first crank link means at a position radially offset from the first horizontal swing axis. 