A modular, multi-configuration robotics system having basic interchangeable component parts including a base (10), turret (110), rails (20), mounting blocks (30), motors (80), arm links (60) as the primary components and also including bearings (180), pillow blocks (170), gears (176, 178), various shafts, pulley, belts, electronic controller and optical encoders (184) as additional essential component parts. The system is intended as a tutorial device in the field of educational robotics.
Claims I claim: 1. A modular, multi-configuration, educational robotics system having basic interchangeable component parts, comprising: support surface means having a predetermined pattern and spacing of threaded holes therein; an elongated modular rail means having a generally rectangular cross-section and including a substantially flat bottom mounting surface and a substantially flat top mounting surface, said top mounting surface extending over a shorter portion of said rail length than said bottom mounting surface and being centrally disposed so as to define fastening areas at the ends thereof for securing said rail means to said support surfaces means and further including attachment openings at predetermined locations thereon so that other rail means or other modular components may be secured to said top and bottom mounting surfaces; a modular mounting block means which is a generally rectangularly shaped body having upper and lower mounting edges and side mounting edges and including opposed first and second surfaces, said body including a centrally disposed opening between said opposed first and second surfaces and further including a mounting slot opening located on each side of said centrally disposed opening, said mounting slot openings being generally parallel and extending over a predetermined portion of said body at right angles to said upper and lower mounting edges, said body further including threaded hole means at predetermined locations thereon for receiving securing means to attach the same to other component parts of said system; modular first arm link means mounted for pivotal movement by one end on a shaft means supported between a pair of said block means and a modular second arm link means mounted for pivotal movement at the outer end of said first arm link means and adapted to receive an end effector means at its outer end; and power and drive transmission means at least partially attached to mounting block means on said support surface means for causing pivotal movement of said first and second arm links and predetermined types of movement to said end effector and including electronic controller means therefor. 2. The robotics system according to claim 1 and wherein said support surface means is a turret plate mounted for rotatable motion in a horizontal plane. 3. The robotics system according to claim 2 and wherein said turret plate is attached to and driven by support shaft means mounted on a base plate means which also includes a plurality and predetermined pattern of threaded holes therein. 4. The robotics system according to claim 3 and wherein said first and second arm links are U-shaped trough members with the open side of said U-shaped trough facing upwardly. 5. The robotics system according to claim 4 and in which said power and drive transmission means consists of a drive train combination of stepping motors, pulley and belts. 6. The robotics system according to claim 5 and wherein said first arm link is connected to a first pivot shaft supported between a pair of said mounting block means and wherein said first arm link is driven by a first stepper motor mounted on mounting block means and is connected by first power transmission means to said first shaft to rotate said first arm link. 7. The robotics system according to claim 6 and wherein said second arm link is mounted on second shaft means supported at the outer end of said first arm link, and wherein said second arm link is driven by a second stepper motor secured to mounting block means and is connected by second power transmission means to said second shaft to rotate said second arm link. 8. The robotics system according to claim 7 and wherein wrist connection means for an end effector is attached to the outer end of said second arm link whereby roll and pitch articulation motions may be transferred to said end effector. 9. The robotics system according to claim 8 and wherein a bevel gear differential is located at the outer end of said second link arm and whereby said bevel gear differential is driven by third and fourth power transmission means each including motor, belts and pulleys for imparting said roll and pitch articulation motions to said end effector through said wrist connection means. 10. The robotics system according to claim 1 and wherein said first and second arm links are U-shaped trough members with the open side of said U-shaped trough facing upwardly. 11. The robotics system according to claim 1 and in which said power and drive transmission means consists of a driven train combination of stepping motors, pulley and belts. 12. The robotics system according to claim 1 and wherein said first arm link is connected to a first pivot shaft supported between a pair of said mounting block means and wherein said first amr link is driven by a first stepper motor mounted on mounting block means and is connected by first power transmission means to said first shaft to rotate said first arm link. 13. The robotics system according to claim 12 and wherein said second arm link is mounted on second shaft means supported at the outer end of said first arm link, and wherein said second arm link is driven by a second stepper motor secured to mounting block means and is connected by second power transmission means to said second shaft to rotate said second arm link. 14. The robotics system according to claim 4 and wherein wrist connection means for an end effector is attached to the outer end of said second arm link whereby roll and pitch articulation motions may be transferred to said end effector. 15. The robotics system according to claim 14 and wherein a bevel gear differential is rotated at the outer end of said second link arm and whereby said bevel gear differential is driven by third and fourth power transmission means each including motor, belts and pulleys for imparting said roll and pitch articulation motions to said end effector through said wrist connection means. 16. The robotics system according to claim 1 and wherein bearing means are mounted in each of said pair of block means for supporting said shaft means for said first arm link. 17. The robotics system according to claim 1 and wherein optical encoder means is attached to at least one of said mounting block means for providing feedback control information to said electronic controller means. 