A method of determining the current orientation of the wrist output of a closed-loop robot wrist having at least one actuator, where the actuator has a displacement sensor, includes generating a look-up table having table orientation data corresponding to the orientation of the wrist output for specific table displacement values of the displacements of the actuator. The method generates displacement signals representative of the displacement of said actuator; selects from the look-up table a set of table orientation data as determined from the displacement signals; and determines the current orientation of the wrist output from that set of table orientation data. Analysis of an equivalent open-loop mechanical model of at least one link of the closed-loop wrist may be used to generate the look-up table.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining the current orientation of the wrist output of a closed-loop robot wrist having at least one actuator, said actuator having a displacement sensor, comprising the steps of: (a) generating a look-up table having table orientation data corresponding to the orientation of said wrist output for specific table displacement values of the displacements of said actuator; (b) generating displacement signals representative of the displacement of said actuator; (c) selecting from said look-up table a set of table orientation data in accordance with said displacement signals; and (d) determining said current orientation of said wrist output from said set of table orientation data. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said step (d) comprises the step of using said set of table orientation data as said current orientation. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said step (d) comprises the step of performing mathematical iteration to determine said current orientation of said wrist output from said set of table orientation data. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said mathematical iteration comprises Newton-Raphson iteration. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said step (d) comprises the further steps of: (i) determining whether said mathematical iteration converges to said current orientation; (ii) selecting, if said mathematical iteration does not converge to said current orientation, from said look-up table a second set of table orientation data; and (iii) performing, if said mathematical iteration does not converge to said current orientation, mathematical iteration to determine said current orientation of said wrist output from said second set of table orientation data. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said step (a) comprises the steps of: (i) generating a preliminary look-up table containing approximate orientation data corresponding to the approximate orientation of said wrist output for specific table displacement values of the displacements of said actuator; and (ii) performing mathematical iteration to determine said table orientation data from said approximate orientation data. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said mathematical iteration comprises Newton-Raphson iteration. 8. A method of controlling the wrist output of a closed-loop robot wrist having at least one actuator, said actuator having a displacement sensor, comprising the steps of: (a) generating a look-up table having table orientation data corresponding to the orientation of said wrist output for specific table displacement values of the displacements of said actuator; (b) generating displacement signals representative of the displacement of said actuator; (c) selecting from said look-up table a set of table orientation data in accordance with said displacement signals; (d) determining said current orientation of said wrist output from said set of table orientation data; and (e) controlling the orientation of said wrist output based on said current orientation. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said step (d) comprises the step of using said set of table orientation data as said current orientation. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein said step (d) comprises the step of performing mathematical iteration to determine said current orientation of said wrist output from said set of table orientation data. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said mathematical iteration comprises Newton-Raphson iteration. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein said step (d) comprises the further steps of: (i) determining whether said mathematical iteration converges to said current orientation; (ii) selecting, if said mathematical iteration does not converge to said current orientation, from said look-up table a second set of table orientation data; and (iii) performing, if said mathematical iteration does not converge to said current orientation, mathematical iteration to determine said current orientation of said wrist output from said second set of table orientation data. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein said step (a) comprises the steps of: (i) generating a preliminary look-up table containing approximate orientation data corresponding to the approximate orientation of said wrist output for specific table displacement values of the displacements of said actuator; and (ii) performing mathematical iteration to determine said table orientation data from said approximate orientation data. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said mathematical iteration comprises Newton-Raphson iteration. 15. A method for controlling the wrist output of a closed-loop robot wrist having at least one actuator, said actuator having a displacement sensor, comprising the steps of: (a) generating an equivalent mechanical model having at least one mechanical link and corresponding to said closed-loop robot wrist; (b) generating an equivalent open-loop mechanical model corresponding to at least one mechanical link of said equivalent mechanical model; (c) generating, from said equivalent open-loop mechanical model, a preliminary look-up table containing approximate orientation data corresponding to the approximate orientation of said wrist output for specific table displacement values of the displacements of said actuator; (d) performing mathematic iteration to determine, from said approximate orientation data, table orientation data corresponding to the orientation of said wrist output for said specific table displacement values; (e) generating displacement signals representative of the displacement of said actuator; and (f) performing kinematic analysis using said displacement signals and said table orientation data to control said wrist output. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said mathematical iteration comprises Newton-Raphson iteration. 17. A method of controlling the wrist output of a closed-loop robot wrist having at least one actuator, said actuator having a displacement sensor, comprising the steps of: (a) generating an equivalent mechanical model having at least one mechanical link and corresponding to said closed-loop robot wrist; (b) generating an equivalent open-loop mechanical model corresponding to at least one mechanical link of said equivalent mechanical model; (c) generating displacement signals representative of the displacement of said actuator; and (d) performing kinematic analysis on said equivalent open-loop mechanical model and using said displacement signals to control said wrist output. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said kinematic analysis comprises inverse kinematic analysis. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said kinematic analysis comprises forward kinematic analysis. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein said kinematic analysis comprises inverse kinematic analysis. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein said kinematic analysis comprises forward kinematic analysis. 