A method and apparatus are provided for placing a plurality of Stock Keeping Units (SKUs), e.g., brands in transport units wherein quantities of SKUs, not equal to standard SKU packages, e.g. cases, can be ordered. A material handling system, including a work area, robot, conveyors, and the like, is used in conjunction with a computer implemented planning method. The planning method determines the sequence for filling transport units by initially assigning transport units to the work area. Only one transport unit per order is assigned to the work area at a single time. The SKUs are then ranked depending on their difficulty in placement. If a partial package is required, it is considered more difficult that full packages and placed before the required full packages of that SKU. The planning method completes the oldest transport unit in the work area and attempts to place the most difficult SKUs first.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A material handling system for distributing a plurality of items in accordance with a plurality of separate requests for specific quantities of said items, comprising: means for receiving said requests; means for receiving a plurality of said items, each item being provided in a predetermined quantity; means for automatically assembling said requested items in transport units contained within a work area of said material handling system for placement into said transport units in accordance with said requests, said requests including quantities of said items less than said predetermined quantity; and means for planning the distribution of said plurality of items by sequentially ordering said items to cause the predetermined quantity corresponding to the greatest number of requests for the item to be received in the work area first. 2. A system according to claim 1 wherein said planning means includes means for assigning specific quantities of said items to corresponding ones of said transport units. 3. A system according to claim 2 wherein said means for planning comprises: means for combining quantities for said items within at least two of said plurality of separate requests; and means for comparing the combined quantity for said item with said predetermined quantity of the item. 4. A system according to claim 3 wherein said means for planning further comprises: means for tracking the transport units, from oldest to newest, based on the length of time said transport units have been in the work area: and means for comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of items with said assigned specific quantity for said item, corresponding to said oldest transport unit. 5. A system according to claim 4 wherein said means for planning further comprises means for instructing said means for assembling to place said first sequential predetermined quantity of items in said oldest transport unit when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity. 6. A system according to claim 5, wherein said means for planning further comprises: means for comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of the items with the assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to said oldest transport unit and successive transport units currently in the work area; and means for instructing said means for assembling to place said predetermined quantity of items in said oldest transport unit and said successive transport units when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity of said item for said oldest transport unit and said successive transport units. 7. A system according to claim 6, wherein said means for planning further comprises: means for comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of the item with the assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and any other assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to transport units not currently in the work area; means for determining if space is available for additional transport units in the work area; means for assigning additional transport units, corresponding to the other required quantity for the item, to the work area; and means for instructing said means for assembling to place said predetermined quantity of items in said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and said additional transport units, when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity for said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and said additional transport units. 8. A method for distributing a plurality of items, using a material handling system, in accordance with a plurality of separate requests for specific quantities of said items, comprising the steps of: receiving said requests by a processor within said material handling system; receiving a plurality of said items, each item being provided in a predetermined quantity; automatically assembling said requested items in transport units, contained within a work area of said material handling system for placement in said transport units in accordance with said requests, said requests including quantities of said items less than said predetermined quantity; and planning the distribution of said plurality of items by sequentially ordering said items to cause the predetermined quantity corresponding to the greatest number of requests for the item to be received in the work area first. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein the step of planning includes the step of assigning specific quantities of said items to corresponding ones of said transport units. 10. A method according to claim 9 wherein said step of planning further comprises the steps of: combining quantities for said items within at least two of said plurality of separate requests; and comparing the combined quantity for said item with said predetermined quantity of the item. 11. A method according to claim 10 wherein said step of planning comprises: tracking the transport units, from oldest to newest, based on the length of time said transport units have been in the work area; and comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of items with said assigned specific quantity for said item, corresponding to said oldest transport unit. 12. A method according to claim 11 wherein said step of planning further comprises the step of causing said first sequential predetermined quantity of items to be placed in said oldest transport unit when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity. 13. A method according to claim 12, wherein said step of planning further comprises the steps of: comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of the items with the assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to said oldest transport unit and successive transport units currently in the work area; and causing said predetermined quantity of items to be placed in said oldest transport unit and said successive transport units when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity of said item for said oldest transport unit and said successive transport units. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein said step of planning further comprises the steps of: comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of the item with the assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and any other assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to transport units not currently in the work area; determining if space is available for additional transport units in the work area; assigning additional transport units, corresponding to the other required quantity for the item, to the work area; and causing said predetermined quantity of items to be placed in said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and said additional transport units, when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity for said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and said additional transport units. 15. A method of distributing items, based on a plurality of separate requests for said items, comprising the steps of: providing said items in a predetermined quantity; controlling the distribution of said items to place quantities of said items, less than said predetermined quantity, in transport units, contained in a work area of a material handling system, each said transport unit being associated with one of said requests; ordering a sequence of said items in predetermined quantities to cause the predetermined quantity corresponding to the greatest number of requests for the item therein to enter the work area first; and automatically placing said items into said transport units. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein said step of controlling comprises the steps of combining quantities for said items within at least two of said plurality of separate requests; and comparing the combined quantity for said item with said predetermined quantity of the item. 17. A method according to claim 16 further comprising the step of placing said items in said transport units, according to said combined requests, when said combined quantity is greater than or equal to said predetermined quantity. 18. A method according to claim 17 wherein said step of controlling comprises: tracking the transport units, from oldest to newest, based on the length of time said transport units have been in the work area; and comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of items with the requirements for said item, corresponding to said oldest transport unit, any other successive transport units in the work area and any additional transport units, corresponding to said item, assignable to the work area. 19. A material handling system for distributing a plurality of items in accordance with a plurality of separate requests for specific quantities of said items, comprising: means for receiving said requests; means for receiving a plurality of said items, each item being provided in a predetermined quantity; means for automatically assembling said requested items in transport units contained within a work area of said material handling system for placement into said transport units in accordance with said requests, said requests including quantities of said items less than said predetermined quantity; means for planning the distribution of said plurality of items by sequentially ordering said items to cause the predetermined quantity corresponding to the greatest number of requests for the item to be received in the work area first, said means for planning including: means for assigning specific quantities of said items to corresponding ones of said transport units: means for combining quantities for said items within at least two of said plurality of separate requests; means for comparing the combined quantity for said item with said predetermined quantity of the item; means for tracking the transport units, from oldest to newest, based on the length of time said transport units have been in the work area; and means for comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of items with said assigned specific quantity for said item, corresponding to said oldest transport unit. 20. A system according to claim 19 wherein said means for planning further comprises means for instructing said means for assembling to place said first sequential predetermined quantity of items in said oldest transport unit when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity. 21. A system according to claim 20, wherein said means for planning further comprises: means for comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of the items with the assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to said oldest transport unit and successive transport units currently in the work area; and means for instructing said means for assembling to place said predetermined quantity of items in said oldest transport unit and said successive transport units when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity of said item for said oldest transport unit and said successive transport units. 22. A system according to claim 21, wherein said means for planning further comprises: means for comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of the item with the assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and any other assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to transport units not currently in the work area; means for determining if space is available for additional transport units in the work area; means for assigning additional transport units, corresponding to the other required quantity for the item, to the work area; and means for instructing said means for assembling to place said predetermined quantity of items in said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and said additional transport units, when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity for said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and said additional transport units. 23. A method for distributing a plurality of items, using a material handling system, in accordance with a plurality of separate requests for specific quantities of said items, comprising the steps of: receiving said requests by a processor within said material handling system; receiving a plurality of said items, each item being provided in a predetermined quantity; automatically assembling said requested items in transport units, contained within a work area of said material handling system for placement in said transport units in accordance with said requests, said requests including quantities of said items less than said predetermined quantity; and planning the distribution of said plurality of items by sequentially ordering said items to cause the predetermined quantity corresponding to the greatest number of requests for the item to be received in the work area first, said step of planning including the steps of: assigning specific quantities of said items to corresponding ones of said transport units; combining quantities for said items within at least two of said plurality of separate requests; comparing the combined quantity for said item with said predetermined quantity of the item; tracking the transport units, from oldest to newest, based on the length of time said transport units have been in the work area; and comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of items with said assigned specific quantity for said item, corresponding to said oldest transport unit. 24. A method according to claim 23 wherein said step of planning further comprises the step of causing said first sequential predetermined quantity of items to be placed in said oldest transport unit when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity. 25. A method according to claim 24, wherein said step of planning further comprises the steps of: comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of the items with the assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to said oldest transport unit and successive transport units currently in the work area; and causing said predetermined quantity of items to be placed in said oldest transport unit and said successive transport units when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity of said item for said oldest transport unit and said successive transport units. 26. A method according to claim 25, wherein said step of planning further comprises the steps of: comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of the item with the assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and any other assigned specific quantity for said item corresponding to transport units not currently in the work area; determining if space is available for additional transport units in the work area; assigning additional transport units, corresponding to the other required quantity for the item, to the work area; and causing said predetermined quantity of items to be placed in said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and said additional transport units, when said predetermined quantity is less than or equal to said assigned specific quantity for said oldest transport unit, said successive transport units and said additional transport units. 27. A method of distributing items, based on a plurality of separate requests for said items, comprising the steps of: providing said items in a predetermined quantity; controlling the distribution of said items, by combining quantities for said items within at least two of said plurality of separate requests and comparing the combined quantity for said item with said predetermined quantity of the item to place quantities of said items, less than said predetermined quantity in transport units, contained in a work area of a material handling system, each said transport unit being associated with one of said requests, said step of controlling further including tracking the transport units, from oldest to newest, based on the length of time said transport units have been in the work area and comparing the first sequential predetermined quantity of items with the requirements for said item, corresponding to said oldest transport unit, any other successive transport units in the work area and any additional transport units, corresponding to said item, assignable to the work area; ordering a sequence of said items in predetermined quantities to cause the predetermined quantity corresponding to the greatest number of requests for the item therein to enter the work area first; and automatically placing said items in said transport units, according to said combined requests, when said combined quantity is greater than or equal to said predetermined quantity. 