A disk drive testing system includes at least one robotic arm defining a first axis substantially normal to a floor surface. The robotic arm is operable to rotate through a predetermined arc about and extend radially from the first axis. Multiple racks are arranged around the robotic arm for servicing by the robotic arm. Each rack houses multiple test slots that are each configured to receive a disk drive transporter configured to carry a disk drive for testing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A disk drive testing system, comprising: a robotic arm configured to rotate through a predetermined arc about, and to extend radially from, a first axis that is substantially normal to a floor surface and the robotic arm; multiple racks arranged around the robotic arm for servicing by the robotic arm; multiple test slots housed by at least one of the multiple racks, wherein a test slot is configured to receive a disk drive transporter configured to carry a disk drive for testing; at least one computer configured to communicate with the multiple test slots; a power system configured to supply power to the disk drive testing system; a temperature control system configured to control a temperature of at least one of the multiple test slots; a vibration control system configured to control rack vibrations; a data interface configured to communicate with the disk drive in the disk drive transporter received by the test slot; and a rotatable table supporting the robotic arm and configured to rotate the robotic arm about a second axis that is substantially normal to the floor surface. 2. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, wherein the power system is configured to monitor power to the disk drive received in the test slot. 3. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, wherein the power system is configured to regulate power to the disk drive received in the test slot. 4. The disk drive testing system of claim 1, wherein the temperature control system comprises an air mover configured to circulate air through the test slot. 5. A disk drive testing system, comprising: a robotic arm configured to rotate through a predetermined arc about, and to extend radially from, an axis that is substantially normal to a floor surface and the robotic arm; multiple racks arranged around the robotic arm for servicing by the robotic arm; and multiple test slots housed by at least one of the multiple racks, wherein a test slot is configured to receive a disk drive transporter configured to carry a disk drive for testing; wherein one of the multiple racks comprises at least one self-testing system configured to communicate with at least one test slot, the at least self-testing system comprising: a cluster controller configured to run one or more testing programs on the disk drive received in the test slot; a connection interface circuit configured to communicate with the disk drive received in the test slot; and a block interface circuit configured to communicate with the connection interface circuit, and to control power and temperature of the test slot; wherein one or more of the connection interface circuit and the block interface circuit are further configured to test a functionality of at least one component of the disk drive testing system. 6. A disk drive testing system, comprising: a robotic arm configured to rotate through a predetermined arc about, and to extend radially from, an axis that is substantially normal to a floor surface and the robotic arm; multiple racks arranged around the robotic arm for servicing by the robotic arm; and multiple test slots housed by at least one of the multiple racks, wherein a test slot is configured to receive a disk drive transporter configured to carry a disk drive for testing; wherein one of the multiple racks comprises at least one functional testing system configured to communicate with at least one test slot, the at least one functional testing system comprising: a cluster controller configured to run one or more testing programs on the disk drive received in the test slot; at least one functional interface circuit configured to communicate with the cluster controller; and a connection interface circuit configured to communicate with the disk drive received in the test slot and the at least one functional interface circuit, wherein the at least one functional interface circuit is further configured to communicate a functional test routine to the disk drive. 7. The disk drive testing system of claim 6, wherein the at least one functional testing system further comprises an Ethernet switch configured to establish an electrical communication among the cluster controller and the at least one functional interface circuit. 8. A disk drive testing system, comprising: a robotic arm configured to rotate through a predetermined arc about, and to extend radially from, a first axis that is substantially normal to a floor surface and the robotic arm; multiple racks arranged around the robotic arm for servicing by the robotic arm; multiple test slots housed by at least one of the multiple racks, wherein a test slot is configured to receive a disk drive transporter configured to carry a disk drive for testing; and a rotatable table supporting the robotic arm and configured to rotate the robotic arm about a second axis that is substantially normal to the floor surface. 9. The disk drive testing system of claim 8, wherein the robotic arm comprises a manipulator configured to engage the disk drive transporter, and the robotic arm is further configured to carry the disk drive in the disk drive transporter to the test slot for testing. 10. The disk drive testing system of claim 8, wherein the multiple racks are arranged equidistantly radially away from the first axis. 11. The disk drive testing system of claim 8, wherein the multiple racks are arranged in at least a partially closed polygon about the first axis. 12. The disk drive testing system of claim 8, wherein the robotic arm defines a substantially cylindrical working envelope volume, and the multiple racks are arranged within the working envelope volume for accessibility of each test slot for servicing by the robotic arm. 13. The disk drive testing system of claim 8, wherein the robotic arm independently services the test slot by retrieving the disk drive transporter from the test slot to transfer the disk drive between a transfer station and the test slot. 14. The disk drive testing system of claim 8, wherein the robotic arm is configured to rotate 360.degree. about the first axis. 15. The disk drive testing system of claim 8, further comprising a vertically actuating support that supports the robotic arm and is configured to move the robotic arm vertically with respect to the floor surface. 16. The disk drive testing system of claim 8, further comprising a linear actuator for supporting the robotic arm and configured to move the robotic arm horizontally along the floor surface. 17. The disk drive testing system of claim 8, further comprising a transfer station arranged for servicing by the robotic arm, the transfer station configured to supply disk drives for testing. 18. A method of performing disk drive testing, the method comprising: loading multiple disk drives into a transfer station; actuating a robotic arm to retrieve a disk drive transporter from a test slot housed in a rack; actuating the robotic arm to retrieve a disk drive from the transfer station and to carry the disk drive in the disk drive transporter, the robotic arm configured to rotate through a predetermined arc about, and to extend radially from, a first axis that is substantially normal to a floor surface and the robotic arm; actuating the robotic arm to deliver the disk drive transporter carrying the disk drive to the test slot; performing a functionality test on the disk drive housed by the disk drive transporter and the test slot; and actuating the robotic arm to retrieve the disk drive transporter, carrying the disk drive, from the test slot and to deliver the disk drive to the transfer station; wherein the rack comprises: at least one computer configured to communicate with the test slot; a power system configured to supply power to the rack; a temperature control system configured to control a temperature of the test slot; a vibration control system configured to control rack vibrations; a data interface configured to communicate with the disk drive in the disk drive transporter received by the test slot; and a rotatable table supporting the robotic arm and configured to rotate the robotic arm about a second axis that is substantially normal to the floor surface. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising actuating the robotic arm to deposit the disk drive transporter in the test slot. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein performing the functionality test on the disk drive comprises regulating the temperature of the test slot while operating the disk drive. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein operating the disk drive comprises performing reading and writing of data to the disk drive. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein the rack comprises a first rack and a second rack, each arranged equidistantly radially away from the axis. 23. The method of claim 18, wherein the rack comprises a first rack and a second rack, each arranged in at least a partially closed polygon about the first axis of the robotic arm. 24. The method claim 18, further comprising circulating air through the test slot to control the temperature of the test slot. 25. The method claim 18, further comprising monitoring power delivered to the disk drive. 26. The method claim 18, further comprising regulating power delivered to the disk drive. 27. The method claim 18, wherein the robotic arm is further configured to service the test slot by retrieving the disk drive transporter from the test slot to transfer the disk drive between the transfer station and the test slot. 28. The method claim 18, wherein the robotic arm is further configured to rotate 360.degree. about the axis. 29. A method of performing disk drive testing, the method comprising: loading multiple disk drives into a transfer station; actuating a robotic arm to retrieve a disk drive transporter from a test slot housed in a rack; actuating the robotic arm to retrieve a disk drive from the transfer station and to carry the disk drive in the disk drive transporter, the robotic arm configured to rotate through a predetermined arc about, and to extend radially from, an axis that is substantially normal to a floor surface and the robotic arm; actuating the robotic arm to deliver the disk drive transporter carrying the disk drive to the test slot; performing a functionality test on the disk drive housed by the disk drive transporter and the test slot; actuating the robotic arm to retrieve the disk drive transporter, carrying the disk drive, from the test slot and to deliver the disk drive to the transfer station; and performing a self-test on the test slot with a self-testing system housed by the rack to verify a functionality of the test slot; wherein the self-testing system comprises: a cluster controller configured to run one or more testing programs on the disk drive received in the test slot; a connection interface circuit configured to communicate with the disk drive received in the test slot; and a block interface circuit configured to communicate with the connection interface circuit, and to control power and temperature of the test slot; wherein one or more of the connection interface circuit and the block interface circuit are further configured to test a functionality of at least one component of the disk drive testing system. 30. A method of performing disk drive testing, the method comprising: loading multiple disk drives into a transfer station; actuating a robotic arm to retrieve a disk drive transporter from a test slot housed in a rack; actuating the robotic arm to retrieve a disk drive from the transfer station and to carry the disk drive in the disk drive transporter, the robotic arm configured to rotate through a predetermined arc about, and to extend radially from, an axis that is substantially normal to a floor surface and the robotic arm; actuating the robotic arm to deliver the disk drive transporter carrying the disk drive to the test slot; performing a functionality test on the disk drive housed by the disk drive transporter and the test slot; and actuating the robotic arm to retrieve the disk drive transporter, carrying the disk drive, from the test slot and to deliver the disk drive to the transfer station; wherein the rack comprises at least one functional testing system configured to perform the functionality test on the disk drive, the at least one functional testing system comprising: a cluster controller configured to run one or more testing programs on the disk drive received in the test slot; at least one functional interface circuit configured to communicate with the cluster controller; and a connection interface circuit configured to communicate with the disk drive received in the test slot and the at least one functional interface circuit, wherein the at least one functional interface circuit is further configured to communicate a functional test routine to the disk drive. 31. The method claim 30, wherein the at least one functional testing system further comprises an Ethernet switch configured to establish an electrical communication between the cluster controller and the at least one functional interface circuit. 