A method for passive relative ranging between a position of a moving observer and a stationary remote object includes measuring a plurality of angles at the observer's position to the object from a reference direction at selected or arbitrary time intervals. From the measured angles, calculating the current relative location of the observer with respect to the object, using a non-recursive least square technique employing a Moore-Penrose pseudo-matrix-inverse. The technique is carried out in a general or special purpose digital computer by a program using a predetermined number of variables in which products derived from the measured angles are accumulated, without growth in the number or complexity of calculations with an increasing number of measured angles.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for determining the position of a stationary remote object relative to a moving vehicle comprising the steps of: (a) establishing a reference direction; (b) measuring a first angle between the reference direction and the stationary object when the vehicle is at a first location; (c) moving the vehicle to a second location; (d) measuring a second angle between the reference direction and the stationary object when the vehicle is at the second location; (e) after step (d), determining a position of the stationary object relative to the vehicle using the Moore-Penrose pseudo-matrix-inverse technique, wherein the angles measured in steps (b) and (d) are used as inputs to said technique; (f) constructing a digital representation of the surface supporting said object from the determined position; and (g) using the digital representation to control the movement of the vehicle relative to said surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference direction has a known relationship to the direction of motion of the vehicle. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the moving referred to in step (c) is maneuvering. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said vehicle is any object which moves spatially. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the position of the second location is known relative to the position of said first location. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said known relative position is also inputted in step (e) in addition to the angles measured in steps (b) and (d). 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said step (g) of using the digital representation to control the movement of the vehicle relative to said surface, further comprising the steps of: (h) matching the digital representation to a known map representation of the Earth's surface over which the vehicle is traversing; (i) determining the position of the vehicle relative to locations indicated by the map; and (j) thereafter using the map as a reference to control the position of the vehicle relative to said surface. 8. A method for determining the position of a moving vehicle relative to the Earth, comprising the steps of: (a) establishing a reference direction; (b) measuring angles between the reference direction and a plurality of stationary objects on the Earth at a first time; (c) moving the vehicle; (d) measuring angles between the reference direction and the stationary objects at a second time whereby the position of the vehicle has changed between steps (b) and (c); (e) calculating a position for the vehicle relative to the stationary objects using the Moore-Penrose pseudo matrix-inverse technique wherein the angles measured in steps (b) and (d) are used as inputs thereto, and saving predetermined intermediate results generated during said calculating step; (f) continuing to move the vehicle; (g) measuring additional angles between the reference direction and the stationary objects at additional times; (h) calculating updated positions for the vehicle relative to the stationary objects using the Moore-Penrose pseudo-matrix-inverse techniques for the additional times, using said predetermined intermediate results saved from previous calculations made in steps (e) and (h) and the angles measured in step (g), and saving predetermined intermediate results generated during said calculation of updated positions; (i) constructing a digital representation of the Earth's surface supporting the objects from the calculated positions; and (j) using the digital representation to control the movement of the vehicle relative to said surface. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the reference direction has a known relationship to the direction of motion of the vehicle. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the moving referred to in steps (c) and (f) is maneuvering. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein said vehicle is any object which moves spatially. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the position of the vehicle at the second time is known relative to the position of the vehicle at said first time, and wherein the position of the vehicle at each of said additional times is known relative to the position of the vehicle at each immediately previous additional time. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said known relative position is inputted in steps (e) and (h) in addition to said angles measured. 14. The method of claim 8, wherein said step (j) of using the digital representations to control the movement of the vehicle relative to said surface, further comprising the steps of: (k) matching the digital representation to a known map representation of the Earth's surface over which the vehicle is traversing; (l) determining the position of the vehicle relative to locations indicated by the map; and (m) thereafter using the map as a reference to control the position of the vehicle relative to said surface. 15. A method for determining the position of a moving vehicle relative to the Earth, comprising the steps of: (a) establishing a reference direction; (b) measuring angles between the reference direction and a plurality of stationary objects on the Earth at a first time; (c) moving the vehicle; (d) measuring angles between the reference direction and the stationary objects at a second time whereby the position of the vehicle has changed between steps (b) and (c); (e) calculating a position for the vehicle relative to the stationary objects using the Moore-Penrose pseudo-matrix-inverse techniques wherein the angles measured in steps (b) and (d) are used as inputs thereto, and saving predetermined intermediate results generated during said calculating step; (f) continuing to move the vehicle; (g) measuring additional angles between the reference direction and the stationary objects at additional times; (h) calculating updated positions for the vehicle relative to the stationary objects using the Moore-Penrose pseudo-matrix-inverse technique for the additional times, using said predetermined intermediate results saved from previous calculations made in steps (e) and (h) and the angles measured in step (g), and saving predetermined intermediate results generated during said calculation of updated positions; (i) constructing a digital representation from the Earth's surface supporting the stationary objects from the calculated position; (j) matching the digital representation to a known map representation of the Earth's surface over which the vehicle is traversing; (k) determining the position of the vehicle relative to locations indicated by the map; and (l) thereafter using the map as a reference to control the position of the vehicle relative to said surface. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the reference direction has a known relationship to the direction of motion of the vehicle. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the moving referred to in steps (c) and (f) is maneuvering. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein said vehicle is any object which moves spatially. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the position of the vehicle at the second time is known relative to the position of the vehicle at said first time, and wherein the position of the vehicle at each of said additional times is known relative to the position of the vehicle at each immediately previous additional time. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said known relative position is inputted in steps (e) and (h) in addition to said angles measured. 21. A method for passively determining the relative location of a moving vehicle relative to at least one stationary remote object, comprising the steps of: (a) establishing a reference direction; (b) measuring at least one angle at the vehicle's position to the object from the reference direction at a first time; (c) moving the vehicle; (d) repeating said measuring step at predetermined time intervals a predetermined number of times, whereby the vehicle is at different locations for each of the measuring steps; (e) establishing a matrix of values representing functions of said angle measurements; (f) calculating from said matrix the current relative location of the moving vehicle with respect to said at least one object using a least squares estimating algorithm; (g) constructing a digital representation of the surface supporting said at least one object from the calculated location; (h) using the digital representation to control the movement of the vehicle relative to said surface. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein said estimating algorithm is a least squares technique employing the Moore-Penrose pseudo-matrix-inverse. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein said vehicle is any object which moves spatially. 24. The method of claim 21, wherein the moving referred to in steps (c) and (f) is maneuvering. 25. The method of claim 21, wherein the position of the vehicle at each of said different locations is known relative to the position of the vehicle at each immediately previous location. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said known relative position is inputted in step (f) in addition to said matrix. 27. The method of claim 21, wherein said step (h) of using the digital representation to control the movement of the vehicle relative to said surface, further comprising the steps of: (i) matching the digital representation to a known map representation of the Earth's surface over which the vehicle is traversing; (j) determining the position of the vehicle relative to locations indicated by the map; and (k) thereafter using the map as a reference to control the position of the vehicle relative to said surface. 28. A method for determining the position of a stationary remote object relative to a moving vehicle comprising the steps of: (a) establishing a reference direction; (b) measuring a first angle between the reference direction and the stationary object when the vehicle is at a first location; (c) maneuvering the vehicle to a second location; (d) measuring a second angle between the reference direction and the stationary object when the vehicle is at the second location is known relative to the position of the vehicle at said first location; (e) after step (d), determining a position of the stationary object relative to the vehicle using the Moore-Penrose pseudo-matrix-inverse technique, wherein the known relative position and the angles measured in steps (b) and (d) are used as inputs to said technique; (f) constructing a digital representation of the surface supporting the stationary object from the determined position; (g) matching the digital representation to a known map representation of the surface over which the vehicle is traversing; (h) determining the position of the vehicle relative to locations indicated by the map; and (i) thereafter using the map as a reference to control the position of the vehicle relative to said surface. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein said vehicle is any object which moves spatially. 30. The method of claim 28, wherein the reference direction has a known relationship to the direction of motion of the vehicle. 31. A method for determining the position of a moving vehicle relative to the Earth, comprising the steps of: (a) establishing a reference direction; (b) measuring angles between the reference direction and a plurality of stationary objects on the Earth at a first time; (c) maneuvering the vehicle; (d) measuring angles between the reference direction and the stationary objects at a second time whereby the position of the vehicle has changed between steps (b) and (c), wherein the position of the vehicle at the second time is known relative to the position of the vehicle at said first time; (e) calculating a position for the vehicle relative to the stationary objects using the Moore-Penrose pseudo-matrix-inverse technique wherein the known relative position and the angles measured in steps (b) and (d) are used as inputs thereto, and saving predetermined intermediate results generated during said calculating step; (f) continuing to maneuver the vehicle; (g) measuring additional angles between the reference direction and the stationary objects at additional times, wherein the position of the vehicle at each additional time is known relative to the position of the vehicle at each previous time; (h) Calculating updated positions for the vehicle relative to the stationary objects using the Moore-Penrose pseudo-matrix-inverse technique for the additional time, using said predetermined intermediate results saved from previous calculations made in steps (e) and (h), the known relative position, and the angles measured in step (g), and saving predetermined intermediate results generated during said calculation of updated positions; (i) constructing a digital representation of the Earth's surface supporting the stationary objects from the calculated positions; (j) matching the digital representation to a known map representation of the Earth's surface over which the vehicle is traversing; (k) determining the position of the vehicle relative to locations indicated by the map; and (l) thereafter using the map as a reference to control the position of the vehicle relative to said surface. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein said vehicle is any object which moves spatially. 33. The method of claim 31, wherein the reference direction has a known relationship to the direction of motion of the vehicle. 