Motion data is acquired simultaneously and in real-time with image data. The motion data provides accurate and near-instant information as to the state and position of an object prone to motion. The present invention is particularly applicable for cardiac CT or MR imaging and other physiologically gated acquisitions. In the context of cardiac imaging, the motion data includes information regarding size and location of the heart during the cardiac phases (diastole, systole, etc.) during each cardiac cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A combined modality imaging system comprising: an imaging device of a first modality constructed to obtain image data of a subject prone to motion; a motion detection device of a second modality, different form the first modality, arranged and constructed to obtain motion data of the subject simultaneously with the imaging device; and a computer readable storage medium having a computer program stored thereon and representing a set of instructions that when executed by a computer causes the computer to: calculate a mapping function that provides a location of each sub-volume of an imaging volume as a function of time from ultrasound data; determine a respective acquisition window for each sub-volume of the imaging volume from the mapping function; and reconstruct an image of the imaging volume substantially free of motion artifacts from imaging data acquired from the imaging volume during the respective acquisition window. 2. The combined modality imaging system of claim 1 wherein the first modality of the imaging device is one of CT, MR, optical, x-ray, and PET. 3. The combined modality imaging system of claim 1 wherein the second modality of the motion detection device is constructed for patient physiological gating. 4. The combined modality imaging system of claim 1 wherein the second modality of the motion detection device is ultrasound. 5. The combined modality imaging system of claim 4 wherein the motion detection device includes a patient wearable belt having an ultrasound transducer. 6. The combined modality imaging system of claim 4 wherein the motion detection device includes a 3D ultrasound probe mechanically connected about the patient and remotely steerable by a technician. 7. The combined modality imaging system of claim 4 further comprising a set of laser or infrared detection devices arranged to register an ultrasound probe location relative to a desired patient orientation. 8. The combined modality imaging system of claim 4 further comprising a robot arm connected to an ultrasound probe and configured to position the ultrasound probe during data acquisition. 9. The computer readable storage medium of claim 1 wherein the imaging data is acquired in a series of projections and wherein the computer is further programmed to calculate a weighting function that controls contribution of each projection to reconstruction of a sub-volume. 10. The computer readable storage medium of claim 1 wherein the computer is further programmed to apply the mapping function during cone beam backprojection of the imaging data. 11. The computer readable storage medium of claim 10 wherein the computer is further programmed to calculate an inverse mapping function that translates each sub-volume of the imaging volume at time t back to a sub-volume location at a specific reference time t.sub.0. 12. A method of diagnostic imaging comprising the steps: acquiring imaging data from a subject in one modality; acquiring mechanical motion data from the subject in another modality, over time, from an imaging volume of the subject that is in motion, the imaging volume having a plurality of sub-volumes; wherein the imaging data and mechanical motion data are acquired simultaneously from the subject; mapping a location of each sub-volume of the imaging volume over time from the mechanical motion data; for each sub-volume, determining a respective temporal window for image reconstruction thereof that results in freezing of motion therein based on the mapped locations; reconstructing an image from imaging data acquired from the selected sub-volumes during the determined temporal windows. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein one modality is ultrasound and the another modality is one of a CT machine, an MR machine, a PET machine, and an x-ray machine. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the selected sub-volume is a voxel of the imaging volume. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the selected sub-volume is a selected anatomical structure in the imaging volume, the selected anatomical structure having motion different from at least one other sub-volume in the imaging volume. 16. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of determining a temporal window for a sub-volume that effectively freezes motion in the sub-volume. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein the imaging data includes perfusion data, and further comprising the steps of generating an elasticity map from the mechanical motion data and fusing the elasticity map with the perfusion data to generate a tissue viability map. 18. The method of claim 12 wherein the imaging data includes anatomical data, and further comprising the steps of generating an elasticity map from the mechanical motion data and fusing the elasticity map with the anatomical data to generate a tissue viability map. 19. The method of claim 12 wherein the imaging data is fused with an ultrasound tissue Doppler map to generate a functional information map. 20. The method of claim 12 further comprising the steps of: acquiring the mechanical motion data from the subject with a bolus traveling through an imaging volume thereof; differentiating calcium from the bolus in the imaging volume from the reconstructed image; and targeting CT calcification scoring of the calcium in the imaging volume differentiated from the bolus. 21. The method of claim 12 further comprising the step of steering an ultrasound transducer in real-time to acquire the mechanical motion data based on anatomical markers identified in an image reconstructed from acquired imaging data. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising the step of determining a position of the ultrasound transducer and automatically registering acquired mechanical motion data with imaging data based at least one the position of the ultrasound transducer when acquiring the mechanical motion data. 23. The method of claim 22 further comprising the step of automatically determining the position of the ultrasound transducer. 24. The method of claim 21 wherein the ultrasound transducer is robotically controlled. 25. The method of claim 21 wherein the ultrasound transducer includes an array of transducer elements affixable to the subject and further comprising the step of selectively controlling each transducer element to generate an ultrasonic beam through the subject. 26. An imaging system comprising: an ultrasound probe configured to acquire motion data from an object prone to motion over time, the object disposed in an imaging volume and having a volume comprising a plurality of sub-volumes; an imaging apparatus configured to acquire imaging data from each of the sub-volumes of the object; and a computer programmed to: determine a position of each sub-volume of the plurality of sub-volumes in the imaging volume as a function of time from the mechanical motion data; generate a mapping function from the determined positions, wherein the mapping function is a four dimensional function u(x, y, z, t) where (x, y, z) corresponds to a coordinate of a reconstructed sub-volume and t corresponds to time; determine a plurality of temporal windows, wherein each temporal window is specific to a sub-volume of the plurality of sub-volumes; for each sub-volume, determine an optimized temporal window from the mapping function based on an amount of mechanical motion in the sub-volume; and reconstruct an image from imaging data acquired from each sub-volume during the optimized temporal windows. 27. The imaging system of claim 26 wherein the imaging apparatus is one of a CT machine, an MR machine, a PET machine, and an x-ray machine. 28. The imaging system of claim 26 wherein the computer is further programmed to determine the optimized temporal window for reconstruction of a given sub-volume that results in freezing of motion in the given sub-volume. 29. The imaging system of claim 28 wherein the imaging apparatus is further programmed to acquire the imaging data in a series of projections and wherein the computer is further programmed to determine a weighting function w(x, y, z) that controls contribution of a given projection to reconstruction of a given sub-volume. 30. The imaging system of claim 26 wherein the computer is further programmed to use the mechanical motion data to correct for motion errors during backprojection of the imaging data. 31. The imaging system of claim 30 wherein the computer is further programmed to determine an inverse mapping function v(x, y, z, t) that translates each sub-volume at time t back to a sub-volume location at a specific reference time t.sub.0. 32. The imaging system of claim 31 wherein the computer is further programmed to reconstruct an image from the imaging data, the image representative of the imaging volume at time t.sub.0. 33. The imaging system of claim 26 wherein the ultrasound probe and the imaging apparatus acquire data simultaneously. 34. The imaging system of claim 33 further comprising an ultrasound probe locating device that provides positional feedback regarding a location of the ultrasound probe. 35. The imaging system of claim 34 wherein the computer is further programmed to automatically register mechanical motion data with imaging data based at least on the location of the ultrasound probe during acquisition of the mechanical motion data. 36. The imaging system of claim 26 further comprising an operator interface that allows an operator to position the ultrasound probe for data acquisition without interference with imaging data acquisition. 37. A method of diagnostic imaging comprising the steps: acquiring imaging data from a subject in one modality; acquiring mechanical motion data from the subject in another modality; wherein the imaging data and mechanical motion data are acquired simultaneously from the subject; determining an inverse mapping function that translates each voxel of an imaging volume from which mechanical motion and imaging data are acquired at a given time to a voxel location at a specific reference time; and reconstructing an image of the imaging volume representative of the imaging volume at the specific reference time. 