A heart monitoring system for a patient includes one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless mesh network; a wearable appliance having a wireless transceiver adapted to communicate with the one or more wireless nodes; and a statistical analyzer to determine heart attack or stroke attack, the statistical analyzer coupled to the wireless transceiver to communicate patient data over the wireless mesh network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heart monitoring system for a patient, comprising: one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless mesh network; a wearable appliance having a wireless transceiver adapted to communicate with the one or more wireless nodes; and a statistical analyzer configured to determine heart attack or stroke attack based on patient vital parameters, the statistical analyzer coupled to the wireless transceiver to communicate patient data over the wireless mesh network. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the statistical analyzer comprises one of: a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) recognizer, a dynamic time warp (DTW) recognizer, a neural network, a fuzzy logic engine, a Bayesian network. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance comprises one of: a differential amplifier, an accelerometer, an EMG detector, EEG detector, an EKG detector, an ECG detector, an electromagnetic detector, an ultrasonic detector, an optical detector. 4. The system of claim 1, comprising a sound transducer coupled to the wireless transceiver to communicate audio over a POTS network and a PSTN network through the mesh network. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance monitors patient movement. 6. The system of claim 1, comprising an in-door positioning system coupled to one or more mesh network appliances to provide location information. 7. The system of claim 1, comprising a call center coupled to the appliance to provide a human response. 8. The system of claim 1, comprising a web server coupled to the mesh network and to the POTS to provide information to an authorized remote user. 9. The system of claim 1, comprising a wireless router coupled to the mesh network and wherein the wireless router comprises one of: 802.11 router, 802.16 router, WiFi router, WiMAX router, Bluetooth router, X10 router. 10. The system of claim 1, comprising a mesh network appliance coupled to a power line to communicate X10 data to and from the mesh network. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network. 12. The system of claim 1, comprising a body impedance (BI) sensor to determine one of: total body water, compartmentalization of body fluids, cardiac monitoring, blood flow, skinfold thickness, dehydration, blood loss, wound monitoring, ulcer detection, deep vein thrombosis, hypovolemia, hemorrhage, blood loss, heart attack, stroke attack. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the BI sensor comprises a patch. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network to one of: a doctor, a nurse, a medical assistant, a caregiver, an emergency response unit, a family member. 15. The system of claim 1, comprising code to store and analyze patient information. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance captures medicine taking habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or exercise habits. 17. The system of claim 1, comprising a housing having one or more bioelectric contacts coupleable to the patient, the housing selected from one of: a patch, a wristwatch, a band, a wristband, a chest band, a leg band, a sock, a glove, a foot pad, a head-band, an ear-clip, an ear phone, a shower-cap, an armband, an ear-ring, eye-glasses, sun-glasses, a belt, a sock, a shirt, a garment, a jewelry, a bed spread, a pillow cover, a pillow, a mattress, a blanket, each having one or more sensors in communication with the wireless mesh network. 18. A system, comprising: one or more wireless nodes; a sensor coupled to the person and coupled to the wireless nodes to transmit patient data; one or more cameras positioned to capture video of a patient; and a server coupled to the one or more cameras, the server executing code to detect a dangerous condition for the patient based on the video and allow a remote third party to view images of the patient when the dangerous condition is detected. 19. A monitoring system for a person, comprising: one or more wireless nodes; and a sensor coupled to the person to determine a stroke attack based on patient vital parameters, the sensor coupled to the wireless nodes to transmit patient data. 20. The system of claim 19, comprising an analyzer coupled to the sensor and configured to detect weakness in left half and right half of patient body; detects walking pattern for loss of balance or coordination; asks user to move hands/feet in a predetermined pattern and read accelerometer output in accordance with predetermined pattern; checking whether the person experienced dizziness or headache; displays a text image and ask the person to read back the text image one eye at a time; using a speech recognizer to detect confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; and asks the person if numbness is felt in the body. 