The addition of a gaseous source of hydrogen radicals, such as hydrogen, ammonia or methane to oxide RIE etching chemistries, in amounts of from about 5 to about 20 percent by volume of the total gas flow, will increase the oxide etch rate while suppressing the polysilicon etch rate. This effect is more pronounced at lower wafer temperatures. This new process chemistry increases the oxide etch rate to greater than 5000 .ANG./min., improves the selectivity to polysilicon to greater than 25:1 and improves the selectivity to photoresist to greater than 6:1, without having a significant detrimental effect on the profile angle, the RIE lag and the etch rate uniformity. Selectivities of 50:1 have been achieved with less than 15% RIE lag using the chemistry CHF.sub.3, Ar, CF.sub.4 and NH.sub.3, with NH.sub.3 constituting 10 percent by volume of the gas flow.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reactive ion etch process, which comprises positioning a structure comprising at least one of a dielectric layer and a semiconductor layer on a surface of a substrate in a closed chamber, supplying a selected reactive gas mixture including a gaseous source of hydrogen radicals to the chamber, applying RF energy to the chamber to establish an etching plasma and an associated electric field substyantially perpendicular to the surface of the substrate, applying a magnetic field to the chamber substantially perpendicular to the electric field and parallel to the surface of the substrate, and allowing the reactive gas mixture to etch at least a portion of the dielectric or semiconductor layer. 2. The reactive ion etch process of claim 1 additionally comprising the steps of applying a masking layer to the dielectric or semiconductor layer and forming at least one opening in the masking layer to expose the dielectric or semiconductor layer in the at least one opening. 3. The reactive ion etch process of claim 1 in which the gaseous source of hydrogen radicals comprises hydrogen, ammonia or methane. 4. The reactive ion etch process of claim 3 in which the gaseous source of hydrogen radicals comprises ammonia. 5. The reactive ion etch process of claim 4 in which the reactive gas mixture contains from about 5 to about 20 percent by volume of ammonia. 6. The reactive ion etch process of claim 5 in which the reactive gas mixture contains about 10 percent by volume ammonia. 7. The reactive ion etch process of claim 4 in which the reactive gas mixture additionally comprises CHF.sub.3 and argon. 8. The reactive ion etch process of claim 7 in which the reactive gas mixture additionally comprises CF.sub.4 or C.sub.2 F.sub.6. 9. The reactive ion etch process of claim 1 in which the dielectric layer is a silicon oxide layer. 10. The reactive ion etch process of claim 1 in which the semiconductor layer is a silicon layer. 11. The reactive ion etch process of claim 1 in which the substrate is positioned at a cathode of the chamber, the process additionally comprising the step of establishing a temperature between about -40 degrees Centigrade and about 20 degrees Centigrade at the cathode prior to allowing the reactive gas mixture to etch at least a portion of the dielectric or semiconductor layer. 12. The reactive ion etch process of claim 11 in which a temperature between about 0 degrees Centigrade and about 20 degrees Centigrade is established. 13. In a magnetically enhanced reactive ion etch process for etching a dielectric or a semiconductor, the improvement which comprises adding a gaseous source of hydrogen radicals to a reactive gas mixture in an amount sufficient to increase at least one of etch rate and selectivity of the reactive gas mixture for the dielectric or the semiconductor. 14. The reactive ion etch process of claim 13 additionally comprising the steps of applying a masking layer to the dielectric or semiconductor layer and forming at least one opening in the masking layer to expose the dielectric or semiconductor layer in the at least one opening. 15. The reactive ion etch process of claim 13 in which the gaseous source of hydrogen radicals comprises hydrogen, ammonia or methane. 16. The reactive ion etch process of claim 15 in which the gaseous source of hydrogen radicals comprises ammonia. 17. The reactive ion etch process of claim 16 in which the reactive gas mixture contains from about 5 to about 20 percent by volume of ammonia. 18. The reactive ion etch process of claim 17 in which the reactive gas mixture contains about 10 percent by volume ammonia. 19. The reactive ion etch process of claim 16 in which the reactive gas mixture additionally comprises CHF.sub.3 and argon. 20. The reactive ion etch process of claim 19 in which the reactive gas mixture additionally comprises CF.sub.4 or C.sub.2 F.sub.6. 21. The reactive ion etch process of claim 13 in which the dielectric layer is a silicon oxide layer. 22. The reactive ion etch process of claim 13 in which the semiconductor layer is a silicon layer. 23. The reactive ion etch process of claim 13 in which the substrate is positioned at a cathode of the chamber, the process additionally comprising the step of establishing a temperature between about -40 degrees Centigrade and about 20 degrees Centigrade at the cathode prior to allowing the reactive gas mixture to etch at least a portion of the dielectric or semiconductor layer. 24. The reactive ion etch process of claim 23 in which a temperature between about 0 degrees Centigrade and about 20 degrees Centigrade is established. 25. The reactive ion etch process of claim 1 in which the magnetic field is a DC magnetic field. 26. The reactive ion etch process of claim 1 in which the magnetic field is independently controllable in direction and magnitude. 27. The reactive ion etch process of claim 13 in which the reactive ion etch process is magnetically enhanced by applying the magnetic field to the dielectric or semiconductor perpendicular to an electric field used to establish a plasma and parallel to a surface of the dielectric or the semiconductor. 28. The reactive ion etch process of claim 26 in which the magnetic field is a DC magnetic field. 29. The reactive ion etch process of claim 13 in which the magnetic field is independently controllable in direction and magnitude. 