A winding system for winding a filament includes a winder having a winder support with a rotatably winding head. A spool for scoring filament is rotatably mounted on the head and the head is provided with a filament dispensing eye which can be rotated in a circular path for winding a mandrel. The mandrel is held at a fixed location. A robot mnaipulator arm is connected to the winder and indexes the winder to a plurality of positions around the fixed mandrel. At each selected position, the winding head is rotated by a selected amount to achieve any complex or simple winding cofiguration, in a plurality of planes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of winding a filament on a mandrel using a winder, having a winder support and a rotatable winding head for feeding a filament in a circular path and a filament eye, for dispensing filament, connected to the winding head, positionable in a radial direction with respect to the winding head, the method comprising the steps of: indexing the winder to a first selected position with respect to the mandrel with the winding head facing the mandrel, said indexing being accomplished using a robot manipulator having at least four degrees of freedom and being controllable for indexing the winder to a plurality of selected positions with respect to the mandrel; rotating the winding head by a selected amount for at least partly winding a filament around the mandrel; positioning the filament eye in a radial direction with respect to the winder head; indexing the winder to a second position with respect to the mandrel; again rotating the winding head for at least partly winding filament on the mandrel; again positioning the filament eye in radial direction with respect to the winder head; maintaining the mandrel at a selected location and in a selected position with respect to the winder, the winder being indexed to a plurality of locations around the mandrel, the winding head being rotated with respect to the winder support and the filament eye being positioned with respect to the winding head, for winding filament on the mandrel in a selected pattern. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein filament is supplied from a spool, including rotating the spool with rotation of the winding head for winding filament on the mandrel, to avoid twisting filament as it is dispensed from the spool. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the filament eye is connected to the winding head to be positionable in both an axial and the radial direction, said method including positioning the filament eye in an axial and the radial direction with respect to the winder head, and maintaining the filament at a fixed selected location and in a fixed selected position. 4. A winding system for winding a filament on a mandrel, comprising: a winder support; a winding head rotatably mounted to said support for dispensing a filament; drive means connected to said winding head for rotating said winding head; a filament eye connected to said winding head; means for moving said filament eye radially with respect to said winding head; robot means having a manipulator connected to said winder support for indexing said winder support to a plurality of winder locations around a mandrel for winding a mandrel with filament in a selected pattern, said manipulator comprising a base and a plurality of manipulator limbs articulated to each other and to said base for a plurality of degrees or freedom, said winder support being connected to one or said manipulator limbs; and a mandrel support for supporting a mandrel at a selected location with respect to said robot means. 5. A winding system according to claim 4, said mandrel support supports a mandrel at a fixed location with respect to said robot means and in a fixed position at said fixed location. 6. A winding system according to claim 5 including control means connected to said robot means and to said drive means for correlating movement of said manipulator and said drive means to form a selected pattern winding for filament on a mandrel. 7. A winding system according to claim 6, including a filament spool rotatably mounted on said winding head and movable with said winding head and a filament eye connected to said winding head and rotatable with said winding head and said spool for dispensing filament in a circular path with rotation of said winding head. 8. A winding system according to claim 7, wherein said spool includes an axis of rotation extending transversely to an axis of rotation of said winding head. 9. A winding system according to claim 1, wherein said manipulator comprises a base, a turntable rotatably mounted on said base for first degree of freedom, a first limb pivotally mounted to said turntable about an axis transverse to an axis of rotation of said turntable for a second degree of freedom, a second limb pivotally mounted to said first limb about an axis parallel to said pivotal axis of said first limb for a third degree of freedom, a third limb pivotally mounted to said second limb about an axis parallel to a pivotal axis of said second limb for a fourth degree of freedom third limb being connected to said winder support. 10. A winding system according to claim 9, including a rotation connection connected between said third limb and said winder support to form a fifth degree of freedom, said rotatable mounting of said winding head representating a sixth degree of freedom. 11. A winding system according to claim 10, wherein the axis of rotation of said winding head is perpendicular to an axis of rotation of said rotatable connection. 12. A winding system according to claim 1, wherein said winding head comprises a winding frame, a filament spool for storing filament rotatably mounted to said winding frame, a shaft connected to said winding frame and rotatably mounted to said winder support for rotatably supporting said frame, a filament arm connected to said shaft and extending at least partly radially of said shaft out of said support, said filament eye connected to said arm and movable in a circular path with rotation of said winding frame for dispensing filament. 13. A winding system according to claim 12, wherein said drive means comprises a first gear connected to said shaft, a motor connected to said support and having a motor shaft a second gear connected to said motor shaft and a toothed belt engaged between said first and second gears for rotation of said winding frame shaft with rotation of said motor shaft. 14. A winding system according to claim 13, including a counterweight arm connected to said winding frame shaft, said spool mounted for rotation between said filament arms and said counterweight arm on an axis transverse to an axis of rotation of said winding frame, said winder support being cylindrical, means connected to said winder support defining a circular track, and a slide member connected to said filament and to said counterweight arm slidably mounted in said track for rotatably guiding said winder frame on said winder support. 15. A winding system according to claim 13, wherein said spool is mounted for rotation an axis which is perpendicular to an axis of rotation of said winding frame. 16. A winding system according to claim 12, wherein said arm comprises an axial arm portion slidably mounted to said shaft for axial motion with respect thereto, and a radial arm portion slidably mounted to said axial arm portion for radial motion with respect to the shaft axis and for guiding filament radially. 17. A winding system according to claim 16, said means for moving including axial drive means connected to said axial arm portion for moving said axial arm portion axially and radial drive means connected to said radial arm portion for moving said radial arm portion radially. 18. A winding system according to claim 17, including a first sensor associated with said axial arm portion for sensing an axial position of said axial arm portion, a second sensor associated with said radial arm portion for sensing a radial position of said radial arm portion and a third sensor associated with said winding head for sensing a rotational position of said winding head. 19. A winding system according to claim 18, including a drum connected to said shaft and rotatably mounted on said winder support, said shaft carrying said axial arm portion for linear motion. 20. A winding system according to claim 16, including liquid spray means connected to said winding head for spraying liquid on filament payed out by said winding head. 21. A winding system according to claim 19, wherein said shaft is hollow, filament from said filament spool extending through said hollow shaft to said filament eye and from said filament eye into engagement with said radial arm portion, said drum which is connected to said shaft carrying said axial arm portion for linear motion, said winder support comprising a second drum to which said hollow shaft is rotatably connected, said first mentioned drum being rotatably mounted in said second drum. 