A method of pattern and image recognition and identification includes building a data store of known patterns or images having known attributes and comparing those patterns to unknown patterns. The data store and comparison processing may be distributed across processors. A digital pattern recognition engine on each of the processors has the ability to compare a known pattern from the data store and an unknown pattern and compare the two patterns to determine whether the patterns constitute a match based on match criteria. If the comparison indicates a match, the match may be communicated to the data store and added as a known pattern with detected attributes to the data store. If the comparison does not indicate a match, the pattern may be flagged, transmitted to manual recognition, or further processed using character thresholding or cutting or slicing the pattern.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of pattern recognition comprising the steps of: generating a data store containing a set of known patterns having known attributes; distributing a predetermined portion of the data store to at least one processor, each processor having its own memory and storage, a predetermined portion of the data store being copied into the memory and storage of each processor; a director node having a communications path to at least one of the processors, the director node having the ability to distribute at least one unknown pattern to at least one of the processors; loading a digital pattern recognition engine on at least one of the processors, the engine having the ability to compare a first known pattern from the data store with an unknown pattern distributed to the processor from the director node to determine whether the patterns constitute a match based on predetermined criteria; if the comparison indicates a match, communicating to the director node that the unknown pattern matches the known pattern or a portion thereof, granting selected attributes of the known pattern and selected attributes identified by the engine to the unknown pattern, and storing the unknown pattern as a known pattern in the data store with the granted attributes if the unknown pattern meets predetermined variance criteria; if the comparison does not indicate a match, performing at least one of: flagging the unknown pattern; communicating that the comparison did not indicate a match; transmitting the unknown pattern to a user for manual identification; transmitting the unknown pattern to a director node for further processing; or storing the unknown pattern for further processing. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of thresholding the unknown pattern. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the known attributes include at least one of a predetermined code value, an affinity node, a repulsion node, pixelation, degree of elastic motion, resolution, character size, and pixel size. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the predetermined criteria include at least one of a percentage of matching pixels in the respective patterns, an allowable pixel underrun or an allowable pixel overrun. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the further processing includes use of pattern cutting. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of mirrored database nodes, each containing a predetermined portion of information from the data store. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising a step of searching and comparing patterns against a plurality of the mirrored database nodes, to allow simultaneous multiple knowledge base database searches and comparisons. 