A method of using a robotic vehicle system is described. The method can include delivering a force through a robotic vehicle system powertrain in the robotic vehicle system. The force delivery can include generating a force with a force generation component in the robotic vehicle system. The force delivery can also include delivering the force through a first shaft to a first receiver and delivering the force from the first receiver to a second receiver. The first shaft can interface with the first receiver.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of using a robotic vehicle system comprising: delivering a force through a robotic vehicle system powertrain in the robotic vehicle system, wherein the delivering of the force comprises: generating a force with a force generation component in the robotic vehicle system; delivering the force through a first shaft to a first receiver, wherein the first shaft interfaces with the first receiver, and wherein the modulus of elasticity of the first shaft is no more than about 1000% more and no less than about 90% less than the modulus of elasticity of the first receiver; and delivering the force from the first receiver to a second receiver, wherein the modulus of elasticity of the first receiver is no more than about 1000% more and no less than about 90% less than the modulus of elasticity of the second receiver. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first receiver comprises a radially inner hub of a pulley, and further comprising driving a track with the pulley. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the force generation component comprises an electric motor. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising delivering the force from the second receiver to a third receiver, wherein the modulus of elasticity of the second receiver is no more than about 1000% more and no less than about 90% less than the modulus of elasticity of the third receiver. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the third receiver comprises a radially outer wheel of a pulley, and further comprising driving a track with the pulley. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the third receiver comprises a track on a radial outer surface of a pulley, and further comprising driving the track with the pulley. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first receiver is concentric about the first shaft, and wherein the second receiver is concentric about the first receiver. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface area of contact between the first receiver and the second receiver is greater than the surface area of contact between the shaft and the first receiver. 