A tool changer for use with the manipulator arm of a robot or the like. A tool changer in which the manipulator arm is engaged with the end effector carrying the tool by a simple linear motion, and disengaged by a linear motion in the opposite direction, without requiring any separate control functions such as switch actuation or the like. A tool changer which also provides for transmitting mechanical, electrical or fluid power and/or control between the manipulator arm and the end effector, and one which can be utilized with any type of tool, sensor, transducer, and the like. A tool changer incorporating a coupling which is closed by an axial compression force and opened by an axial tension force, and an end effector rack for receiving and supporting a plurality of end effectors so that a manipulator arm can position an end effector in the rack with a lateral movement, disengage the arm from the end effector with an axial movement, engage the arm with another end effector by an axial movement in the opposite direction, and remove the new end effector by a lateral movement.
Claims I claim: 1. In a tool changer for use with a manipulator arm which provides a first movement along an axis and a second movement laterally to said axis, the combination of: a coupling comprising a nipple member and a socket member with one of said members including means for connecting the member to the manipulator arm and with the other of said members including means for connecting the member to an end effector and flange means for engaging an end effector rack, and with said members being coupled together solely by an axial compression force and separated solely by an axial tension force without any external manipulation; and an end effector rack for receiving and supporting an end effector, said rack having means interengaging with said coupling member flange means for limiting movement of the end effector along the axis of said coupling while permitting movement laterally, whereby the manipulator arm can position an end effector in said rack solely by a lateral movement, disengage the arm from the end effector solely by an axial movement, engage the arm with an end effector solely by an axial movement in the opposite direction, and remove the end effector from the rack solely by a lateral movement. 2. A tool changer as defined in claim 1 wherein said coupling includes means providing a fluid flow path therethrough, with a sealing valve in each of said nipple and socket members when uncoupled. 3. A tool changer as defined in claim 1 wherein said coupling includes means providing first and second electrical paths therethrough, with first and second electrical contacts in said nipple member and first and second electrical contacts in said socket member, with said first contacts in engagement and said second contacts in engagement when said members are coupled. 4. A tool changer as defined in claim 1 including first and second rotating shafts mounted in said respective coupling members, with said shafts have interengaging ends for driving one by the other when said coupling members are coupled together. 5. A tool changer as defined in claim 1 including aligned shafts mounted in said respective coupling members for axial sliding movement, with said one coupling member including a piston engaging the coupling member shaft in driving relation. 6. A tool changer as defined in claim 1 including a second coupling comprising a second nipple member and a second socket member, with one of said second members including means for connecting the member to the manipulator arm, and with the other of said second members including mains for connecting the member to the end effector, and flange means for engaging said end effector rack. 7. A tool changer as defined in claim 1 including a second coupling comprising a second nipple member and a second socket member, and a third coupling comprising a third nipple member and a third socket member, with one of said second and third members including means for connecting the member to the manipulator arm, and with the other of said second and third members including means for connecting the member to the end effector, and flange means for engaging the end effector rack. 8. A tool changer as defined in claim 7 wherein said end effector rack includes first and second spaced plates with T shaped slots therein for receiving said coupling members with said flange means in the space between said plates. 9. A tool changer as defined in claim 1 wherein said nipple and socket members include interengaging means for limiting rotation of one of said members with respect to the other. 