A flexible disk drive head access mechanism optimized for automated manufacture is disclosed. The mechanism is a complete subassembly. As such, the mechanism can be handled by a robot, as the mechanism is automatically mounted to the disk drive's main frame member. The mechanism comprises a stepping motor having a metal output pulley which is wrapped by a metal band. The middle of the band is welded to the motor's output pulley. The two free ends of the band are welded to a flexible, low-mass band tensioner. This tensioner is a thin, elongated member which includes a U-shaped portion which is operable to tension the band about the pulley. Attachment of the ends of the band to the tensioner not only tensions the band, but also operates to bend the tensioner slightly toward the pulley, thus causing the band to self-center itself in a 360.degree. wrap about the pulley. In this way, rotary to linear output from the mechanism is assured. The low mass of the tensioner insures that the band is not damaged as the motor is handled by the robot, leaving the band and its tensioner unsupported and free to move. A damping arm is welded to the tensioner and operates to damp vibration of the tensioner when the mechanism is at the far end of its head access stroke. In this way, read/write errors are minimized.
Claims We claim: 1. A unitary disk drive head access mechanism mountable on a disk drive frame comprising: a rotary output motor having a shaft; a cylindrical pulley mounted to the shaft of said motor; a flexible band wrapping around said cylindrical pulley and having a mid portion securely attached to said cylindrical pulley, and having a first and second portion leaving contact with the surface of the cylindrical pulley in opposite directions; an elongated low mass tensioner having a first end portion securely attached to said first portion of said flexible band, a second end portion securely attached to said second portion of said flexible band, and an intermediate portion between said first and second end portions, said tensioner engaging said flexible band to cause the disk drive head access mechanism to be self supporting, said tensioner and said flexible band effectuated to move linearly by rotation of said shaft of said motor; means for effectuating a force between said first and second end portions of said tensioner thereby tensioning said flexible band; and means for attaching said second end portion of said tensioner to said head carriage. 2. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 1 wherein the means for effectuating a force between said first and second end portions of said tensioner thereby tensioning said flexible band comprises a U-shaped portion juxtaposed between the first end portion and the intermediate portion; said U-shaped portion of said elongated low mass tensioner compressed by said attachment of said tensioner to said first and second ends of said flexible band thereby tensioning said flexible band about said pulley. 3. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 1 or 2 wherein the rotary output motor is a reversible stepping motor. 4. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 1 or 2 wherein the flexible band is of the helix band type. 5. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 1 or 2 wherein the flexible band is of the split band type. 6. A unitary disk drive head access mechanism mountable on a disk drive frame comprising: a rotary output motor having a shaft; a cylindrical pulley mounted to the shaft of said motor; a flexible band wrapping around said cylindrical pulley and having a mid portion securely attached to said cylindrical pulley, and having a first and second portion leaving contact with the surface of the cylindrical pulley in opposite directions; an elongated low mass tensioner having a first end portion securely attached to said first portion of said flexible band, a second end portion securely attached to said second portion of said flexible band, and an intermediate portion between said first and second end portions, said tensioner engaging said flexible band to cause the disk drive head access mechanism to be self supporting, said tensioner and said flexible band effectuated to move linearly by rotation of said shaft of said motor; means for effectuating a force between said first and second end portions of said tensioner thereby tensioning said flexible band; means for attaching said second end portion of said tensioner to said head carriage; and a damping member having a first end securely attached to the bottom side of said second end portion of said tensioner, and having a second end which is biased against, but is not attached to, the bottom side of said intermediate portion of said tensioner, thereby damping vibrations of said band and tensioner; 7. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 6 wherein the means for effectuating a force between said first and second end portions of said tensioner thereby tensioning said flexible band comprises a U-shaped portion juxtaposed between the first end portion and the intermediate portion; said U-shaped portion of said elongated low mass tensioner compressed by said attachment of said tensioner to said first and second ends of said flexible band thereby tensioning said flexible band about said pulley. 8. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 6 or 7 wherein the damping member has a compressible elastomer mounted on the second end of said damping member which bears against the intermediate portion of the tensioner. 9. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 6 or 7 wherein the damping member has a compressible elastomer mounted on the second end of said damping member which bears against the intermediate portion of the tensioner wherein the compressible elastomer is open cellular polyethylene foam. 10. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 6 or 7 wherein the damping member has a compressible elastomer mounted on the second end of said damping member which bears against the intermediate portion of the tensioner wherein the compressible elastomer is open cellular polyurethane foam. 11. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 6 or 7 wherein the rotary output motor is a stepping motor. 12. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 6 or 7 wherein the damping member and tensioner are stainless steel. 13. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 6 or 7 wherein the flexible band is of the helix band type. 14. A disk drive head access mechanism as in claim 6 or 7 wherein the flexible band is of the split band type. 