A method of controlling a temperature of a subject test slot in a cluster of test slots includes evaluating a request for a temperature change for the subject test slot to determine if sufficient power is available to achieve the requested temperature change, and inhibiting the requested temperature change unless or until sufficient power is determined to be available to achieve the requested temperature change.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a temperature of a test slot in a cluster of test slots, the method comprising: receiving a request for a temperature change for the test slot; comparing (i) a power draw of the cluster expected to result from the temperature change, to (ii) an amount of power available to the cluster; and performing one or more of first operations and second operations; wherein the first operations comprise: determining, based on comparing, that the power draw exceeds the amount of power available; and inhibiting the temperature change; wherein the second operations comprise: determining, based on comparing, that the power draw is less than or equal to the amount of power available to the cluster; and effectuating the temperature change. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein inhibiting the temperature change comprises putting the request for the temperature change in a queue until sufficient power is determined to be available to achieve the temperature change. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the temperature change comprises a difference between a requested temperature setting and an active temperature setting. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating a change in an active power draw of the cluster that is expected to result from the temperature change. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining, based on calculating, whether the active power draw of the cluster of test slots will be increased or decreased by the temperature change. 6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining, based on calculating, that the active power draw of the cluster of test slots will increase by the temperature change. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the power draw expected to result from the temperature changes comprises a sum of the active power draw of the cluster of test slots and the change in the active power draw. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first operations further comprise: putting the request for the temperature change in a queue until sufficient power is determined to be available to achieve the temperature change. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein comparing comprises: comparing based on determining that the active power draw of the cluster of test slots will increase by the temperature change. 10. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining, based on calculating, that the active power draw of the cluster of test slots will be decreased by the temperature change; and effecting the temperature change. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: retrieving another request for a temperature change from a queue. 12. A disk drive testing system comprising: a cluster of test slots; and test electronics configured for electrical communication with the cluster of test slots and further configured to perform operations comprising: receiving a request for a temperature change for a test slot in the cluster; comparing (i) a power draw of the cluster expected to result from the temperature change, to (ii) an amount of power available to the cluster; and performing one or more of first operations and second operations; wherein the first operations comprise: determining, based on comparing, that the power draw exceeds the amount of power available; and inhibiting the temperature change; wherein the second operations comprise: determining, based on comparing, that the power draw is less than or equal to the amount of power available to the cluster; and effectuating the temperature change. 13. The disk drive testing system of claim 12, further comprising: multiple passive components, a passive component associated with a corresponding one of the test slots and configured for electrical communication with the test electronics; wherein the test electronics are configured to regulate operating temperatures of the test slots by controlling flows of electrical current to the multiple passive components. 14. The disk drive testing system of claim 13, wherein the multiple passive components are selected from a group comprising one or more of thermoelectric coolers and resistive heaters. 15. The disk drive testing system of claim 12, wherein a test slot comprises at least one temperature sensor electrically connected to the test electronics; and wherein the test electronics are configured to regulate operating temperatures of the test slots based, at least in part, on signals received from the at least one temperature sensor. 16. A method of controlling a temperature of one or more test slots in a cluster of test slots, the method comprising: calculating an active power draw of the cluster of test slots; calculating an active cooling liquid power load of the cluster of test slots; and adjusting a flow of power for heating or cooling one or more test slots of the cluster of test slots based, at least in part, on at least one of the active power draw and the active cooling liquid power load. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: comparing the active power draw of the cluster of test slots to a total power available to the cluster of test slots; and limiting adjustment of the flow of power if the active power draw of the cluster of test slots exceeds the total power available to the cluster of test slots. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising: comparing the active cooling liquid power load of the cluster of test slots to a predetermined cooling liquid power load for the cluster of test slots; and limiting adjustment of the flow of power if the active cooling liquid power load exceeds the predetermined cooling liquid power load. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein adjusting the flow of power for heating or cooling the one or more test slots in the cluster of test slots comprises: regulating flow of electrical current to one or more passive devices associated with the one or more test slots. 20. A disk drive testing system comprising: a cluster of test slots; and test electronics configured for electrical communication with the cluster of test slots and further configured to perform operations comprising: calculating an active power draw of the cluster of test slots; calculating an active cooling liquid power load of the cluster of test slots; and adjusting a flow of power for heating or cooling one or more test slots of the cluster of test slots based, at least in part, on at least one of the active power draw and the active cooling liquid power load. 21. The disk drive testing system of claim 20, wherein the operations further comprise: comparing the active power draw of the cluster of test slots to a total power available to the cluster of test slots; and limiting adjustment of the flow of power if the active power draw of the cluster of test slots exceeds the total power available to the cluster of test slots. 22. The disk drive testing system of claim 20, wherein the operations further comprise: comparing the active cooling liquid power load of the cluster of test slots to a predetermined cooling liquid power load for the cluster of test slots; and limiting adjustment of the flow of power if the active cooling liquid power load exceeds the predetermined cooling liquid power load. 23. The disk drive testing system of claim 20, wherein adjusting the flow of power for heating or cooling the one or more test slots in the cluster of test slots comprises: regulating flow of electrical current to one or more passive devices associated with the one or more test slots. 24. One or more machine-readable media configured to store instructions that are executable by test electronics to perform operations comprising: receiving a request for a temperature change for a test slot in a cluster of test slots; comparing (i) a power draw of the cluster expected to result from the temperature change, to (ii) an amount of power available to the cluster; and performing one or more of first operations and second operations; wherein the first operations comprise: determining, based on comparing, that the power draw exceeds the amount of power available; and inhibiting the temperature change; wherein the second operations comprise: determining, based on comparing, that the power draw is less than or equal to the amount of power available to the cluster; and effectuating the temperature change. 25. The one or more machine-readable media of claim 24, wherein inhibiting the temperature change comprises putting the request for the temperature change in a queue until sufficient power is determined to be available to achieve the temperature change. 26. The one or more machine-readable media of claim 24, wherein the temperature change comprises a difference between a requested temperature setting and an active temperature setting. 27. The one or more machine-readable media of claim 24, wherein the operations further comprise: calculating a change in an active power draw of the cluster that is expected to result from the temperature change. 28. The one or more machine-readable media of claim 27, wherein the operations further comprise: determining, based on calculating, whether the active power draw of the cluster of test slots will be increased or decreased by the temperature change. 29. The one or more machine-readable media of claim 27, wherein the operations further comprise: determining, based on calculating, that the active power draw of the cluster of test slots will increase by the temperature change. 30. The one or more machine-readable media of claim 27, wherein the power draw expected to result from the temperature changes comprises a sum of the active power draw of the cluster of test slots and the change in the active power draw. 31. The one or more machine-readable media of claim 24, wherein the first operations further comprise: putting the request for the temperature change in a queue until sufficient power is determined to be available to achieve the temperature change. 32. The one or more machine-readable media of claim 29, wherein comparing comprises: comparing based on determining that the active power draw of the cluster of test slots will increase by the temperature change. 33. The one or more machine-readable media of claim 27, wherein the operations further comprise: determining, based on calculating, that the active power draw of the cluster of test slots will be decreased by the temperature change; and effecting the temperature change. 34. The one or more machine-readable media of claim 24, wherein the operations further comprise: retrieving another request for a temperature change from a queue. 