Systems, methods and devices for the automated retrieval/delivery of goods from one location to another using a robotic device such as a tug and accompanying cart. A computer within the tug/cart stores a map of the building floor plan and intended paths for the tug to take when traversing from one location to the next. During the delivery, a variety of different sensors and scanners gather data that is used to avoid obstacles and/or continuously adjust the movement of the tug in order to more closely follow the intended path. The system preferably includes wireless networks that allow one or more tugs to communicate with a tug base station, a primary network located at the site of the delivery and a remote host center that monitors the status and data collected by the tugs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic retrieval/delivery system, comprising: at least one robotic devices for retrieving/delivering goods to a first location; a home base station adapted to physically and electrically accept one of said at least one robotic devices at said first location and adapted to communicate with all of said at least one robotic devices at said first location; and a remote host at a second location adapted to communicate with all of said devices through said home base station. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said home base station includes a computer with a wireless network card for communication with said at least one device. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said base station computer is communicatively coupled to a separate network operable at said first location. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said base station includes a touch screen monitor with a user display. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said user display includes one touch programming of said robotic device to make a delivery to a selected location. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein said touch screen monitor is web-enabled. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein said base station includes a robotic device docking station capable of recharging a battery in said robotic device. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said robotic device is adapted to perform a diagnostic self-check while docked at the base station, and further wherein said base station is adapted to receive the results of said diagnostic self-check. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein communication between said base station and said remote host is over the Internet. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising: at least one annunicator communicatively coupled to said robotic device and adapted to announce when said device is proximate to said annunciator during a retrieval/delivery. 11. The system of claim 1, further comprising: at least one automated door opener communicatively coupled to said robotic device and adapted to open an automatic door when prompted by said device during a retrieval/delivery. 12. The system of claim 1, further comprising: at least one pager communicatively coupled to said robotic tug to alert a user about a condition when prompted by the robotic tug. 13. The system of claim 1, further comprising: an elevator control box communicatively coupled to an existing elevator controller, wherein said elevator control box is adapted to receive elevator commands originating from said robotic device. 14. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of RFID tags on assets; an RFID antenna on said robotic device adapted to search for said RFID tags; and a database in communication with said robotic device to store information related to the identity and location of detected RFID tags. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein said robotic device further comprises: a body; at least one independent motor and wheels attached to said body for moving said device; at least one sensor to detect potential obstacles and continuously confirm positioning; and an onboard controller that includes a map of an environment in which the device is to operate. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said at least one sensor is a directional infrared sensor. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein said robotic device includes a sensor edge along a front bumper of said device. 18. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one robotic device is more than one robotic device. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein each of said more than one robotic devices is adapted to communicate with each other robotic device. 