A fixture for establishing stop surfaces against which a workpiece can be held to accurately locate it during robotic machine tool operations. The fixture includes a table surface having frusto-conical openings arranged in a preselected pattern to receive locator pins. Each locator pin has a frusto-conical base which automatically centers itself in the opening so that a robotic machine can insert the pins without having to first precisely align them with the openings. Each locator pin is locked in its opening by a releaseable slide mechanism which acts against the pin on opposite sides by wedging action to securely hold the pin down on the table.
Claims Having thus described the invention, we claim: 1. A machine fixture for locating a workpiece relative to a tool, said fixture comprising: a rigid table having a plurality of tapered openings therein arranged in a grid pattern and each being tapered as it extends into the table; a plurality of locator pins each having a substantially cylindrical pin element and a tapered base portion which substantially conforms in size and shape to each opening to permit insertion of the pins in selected openings with the pin elements projecting upwardly from the table to establish stop surfaces against which the workpiece can be held, said tapered base portions of the pins being coaxial with the corresponding pin elements and cooperating with the tapered openings to center each pin element in the opening in which it is fitted in all rotational positions of the pin; and releaseable means for holding each pin in the opening in which the pin is fitted. 2. The fixture of claim 1, wherein each opening has a generally frusto-conical shape and said tapered base portion of each pin has a generally frusto-conical shape. 3. The fixture of claim 1, wherein said releaseable means for each pin comprises a slide member mounted on said table for movement between an engaged position wherein the slide member engages the pin in a manner to retain it in the opening in which it is inserted, and a release position wherein the slide member is released from the pin to permit removal of same from the opening. 4. The fixture of claim 3, including a beveled surface on each pin and a beveled surface on said slide member engaging said beveled surface of the pin in the engaged position of the slide member in a manner to apply a wedging force to the pin for retaining same in the opening in which it is inserted. 5. The fixture of claim 3, wherein said releaseable means for each pin comprises a second slide member mounted on said table for movement between an engaged position wherein the second slide member engages the pin in a manner to assist the first mentioned slide member in retaining the pin in the opening in which it is inserted, and a release position wherein the second slide member is released from the pin to permit removal of same from the opening, said first and second slide members engaging the pin on opposite sides of the latter in the engaged positions of the slide members. 6. The fixture of claim 5, including a beveled surface on each pin and a beveled surface on each slide member engaging said beveled surface of the pin in the engaged position of the slide member in a manner to apply wedging action to the pin for retaining same in the opening in which it is inserted. 7. The fixture of claim 6, wherein said first and second slide members are mounted on the table for linear sliding motion between the engaged and release positions, said first and second slide members moving in opposite directions toward their engaged positions. 8. The fixture of claim 7, including: a pivot block on each slide member mounted thereon for pivotal movement about a pivot axis oriented substantially parallel to the axis of the pin when same is inserted in an opening, said blocks presenting said beveled surfaces of the slide members; and yieldable means for urging each block in a preselected pivotal direction about its pivot axis. 9. The fixture of claim 8, wherein: each opening extends through said table; and each locator pin has a shank projecting below the table when the pin is fitted in an opening, said beveled surface of each pin being located on said shank thereof. 10. The fixture of claim 3, wherein said slide member is mounted for linear sliding movement between the engaged and release positions and including: a pivot block on said slide member mounted thereon for pivotal movement about a pivot axis oriented substantially parallel to the axis of the pin when same is inserted in an opening, said block engaging the pin in the engaged position of the slide; and yieldable means for biasing said block in a preselected direction about said pivot axis. 11. The fixture of claim 10, including: a beveled surface on each pin; and a beveled surface on said block acting to wedge against said beveled surface of the pin in the engaged position of said slide member, thereby retaining said tapered portion of the pin by wedging action in the opening in which it is fitted. 12. The fixture of claim 11, wherein: each opening extends through said table; and each locator pin includes a shank extending below the table out of the opening in which the pin is fitted, said beveled surface of each pin being presented on the shank thereof. 13. The fixture of claim 12, wherein each shank carries an enlarged button thereon which presents said beveled surface of the locator pin. 14. The fixture of claim 1, wherein each locator pin includes: a shank extending from said base and projecting below the table when the base f fitted in an opening; and a button portion on said shank at a location below the table when the base is fitted in an opening, said button portion being larger than said shank and being engaged by said releaseable means in a manner to hold base in the opening. 15. A machine fixture for use by a robotic machine to locate a workpiece relative to a machine tool, said fixture comprising: a generally flat table surface having a plurality of openings therein arranged in a preselected grid pattern, each opening having a frusto-conical portion thereof which tapers as it extends into the table surface; a plurality of locator pins each having a frusto-conical base portion and a substantially cylindrical pin element coaxial with the base portion, said base portions substantially conforming in size and shape to said frusto-conical portions of the openings and said pin elements extending from the base portions of the corresponding locator pins, whereby said locator pins can be inserted in selected openings by the robotic machine with said base portions locating themselves closely in said frusto-conical portions of the selected openings to center the pins in the openings and with said pin elements projecting from the table surface and being centered in the openings at all rotative positions of the pins to establish stop surfaces against which the workpiece can be held; and releaseable means for retaining each locator pin in the opening into which it is inserted. 16. The fixture of claim 15, wherein: each locator pin includes a shank portion projecting from the base portion thereof in a direction opposite the pin element; and said releaseable means for each locator pin is engageable with said shank portion of the pin to retain the locator pin in the opening into which it is inserted. 17. The fixture of claim 16, wherein said releaseable means for each locator pin comprises a pair of slide members supported on the table for sliding movement in opposition to one another between engaged positions wherein the slide members engage opposite sides of the shank portion to retain the locator pin in the opening, and release positions wherein the slide members are released from the shank portion of the pin. 18. A machine fixture for locating a workpiece relative to a machine tool, said fixture comprising: a rigid table having a plurality of openings extending therethrough and arranged in a preselected grid pattern, each opening having a tapered portion which tapers from top to bottom; a plurality of locator pins each having a tapered base which substantially conforms in size and shape to said tapered portions of the openings, each locator pin having a pin element projecting from the table when the base portion is inserted in an opening, whereby said pin elements establish rigid stop surfaces for locating the workpiece when said pins are inserted into selected openings and centered therein by the fit of said base portions in said tapered portions of the selected openings; a shank portion of each locator pin projecting below the table and out of the opening n which the pin is inserted; and releaseable means for engaging each shank at a location below the table in a manner to retain the corresponding locator pin in the opening into which is is inserted, said releaseable means for each locator pin comprising a pair of slide members supported on the table for sliding movement in opposition to one another between engaged positions wherein the slide members engage opposite sides of the shank portion to retain the locator pin in the opening, and release positions wherein the slide members are released from the shank portion of the pin. 19. The fixture of claim 18, including means on each slide member for applying a wedging force to the shank portion of the locator pin for retaining the pin in the opening into which it is inserted. 