In a CW radar system for detecting motion behind a wall involving modulation of the radar transmission, means are provided to interrupt the CW wave when motion is detected and to use the same radar transmitter to transmit a serial digital message to a remote monitoring receiver. The encoding can include a receiver wakeup message to turn on the receiver only when motion has been detected. In one embodiment, a microprocessor is used to detect when motion exists behind a wall and to provide a tailorable message to modulate the radar's transmitter in the period when the CW signal from the radar is turned off after motion detection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A combined radar and communications link, comprising: a radar having a frequency source and an antenna for forming a radar beam; a unit at said radar for monitoring radar returns and for developing a signal reflecting a radar parameter; means for interrupting the normal radar beam when the particular parameter has been detected; a modulator coupled to said frequency source and said signal reflecting a radar parameter for modulating the signal transmitted by said radar antenna after normal beam interruption in accordance with said parameter, whereby modulated radiation from said radar antenna establishes said communications link; and wherein said radar is a CW radar and wherein said modulation is selected from the group consisting of amplitude modulation, frequency modulation, phase modulation and pulse code modulation. 2. The combined radar and communications link of claim 1, wherein said parameter is associated with motion of an object in the beam of said radar and further including alerting means when the signal transmitted by said radar antenna is modulated. 3. The combined radar and communications link of claim 2, wherein said alerting means includes an audible signal generator. 4. The combined radar and communications link of claim 2, wherein said alerting means includes a display. 5. The combined radar and communications link of claim 4, wherein said display includes a visual representation of the position of the object relative to said radar. 6. The combined radar and communications link of claim 5, wherein said visual representation includes a plot of the position of said object. 7. The combined radar and communications link of claim 1, wherein said radar is a CW radar. 8. The combined radar and communications link of claim 7, wherein said parameter includes the motion of an object in the beam of said radar, and further including a detector for detecting the phase difference between the transmitted radar beam and the radar returns, said phase difference indicating the presence of a moving object in said radar beam. 