The nocturnal penile tumescene and rigidity sensor device includes a flexible, foldable member that supports a relatively soft foam material and a relatively hard foam material. In one embodiment of the invention the relatively soft foam material and the relatively hard foam material cooperate with corresponding force-sensing resistors to detect changes in penile tumescence and rigidity. The relatively soft foam material detects changes in penile tumescence whereas the relatively hard foam material and its corresponding force-sensing resistor detect the presence and/or changes in penile rigidity. In another embodiment of the invention, a relatively soft foam material and a relatively hard foam material, formed of conductive foams, are shaped to contact a conductive strip with preselected different areas of surface contact in response to different levels of tumescence and rigidity. The change of contact area between the conductive foams and the conductive strip is detected and recorded. In either embodiment of the invention the sensor device can be trimmed to conform exactly to the penile contour of a patient, and when testing is completed the sensor device is disposable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor comprising: a. a flexible, foldable member, b. means for securing said foldable member around the penis in the form of a loop, c. tumescence sensing means joined to said foldable member for sensing penile tumescence, said tumescence sensing means including foam material joined to said foldable member, said foam material projecting from said foldable member toward said penis when said foldable member is formed into said loop such that said foam material receives compressive forces due to penile tumescence under preselected conditions of penile tumescence, said tumescence sensing means including means responsive to compression of said foam material for providing an electrical output signal proportional to the amount of said compressive force imposed by said penis on said foam material under said condition of penile tumescence when said foldable member is formed into said loop, and d. rigidity sensing means joined to said foldable member for sensing penile rigidity. 2. A nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor comprising: a. a flexible foldable member, b. means for securing said foldable member around the penis in the form of a loop, c. tumescence sensing means joined to said foldable member for sensing penile tumescence, and d. rigidity sensing means joined to said foldable member for sensing penile rigidity, said rigidity sensing means including a foam material joined to said foldable member, said foam material projecting from said foldable member toward said penis when said foldable member is formed into said loop such that said foam material receives compressive forces due to penile rigidity under preselected conditions of penile rigidity, said rigidity sensing means including means responsive to penile rigidity forces imposed on said foam material for providing an electrical output signal proportional to the amount of said compressive force imposed by said penis on said foam material under said conditions of penile rigidity when said foldable member is formed into said loop. 3. A nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor comprising a. a flexible foldable member disposable around a penis, b. first and second foam materials having different compressibilities joined to said foldable member, c. means associated with said first foam material for providing a first electrical signal output corresponding to penile tumescence, d. means associated with said second foam material for providing a second electrical signal output corresponding to penile rigidity. 4. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said means for providing said first electrical output signal is provided between said first foam material and said elongated member. 5. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 4 wherein said means for providing said first electrical output signal includes a force-sensing resistor. 6. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said means for providing said first electrical output signal include electrically conductive means within said first foam material. 7. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said means for providing said second electrical output signal is provided between said second foam material and said foldable member. 8. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 7 wherein said means for providing said second electrical output signal includes a force-sensing resistor. 9. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said means for providing said second electrical output signal include electrically conductive means within said second foam material. 10. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said foldable member has a predetermined surface area, said first foam material being joined to a major surface area of said foldable member and said second foam material being joined to a minor surface area of said foldable member. 11. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said first foam material is electrically conductive. 12. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said second foam material is electrically conductive. 13. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said first and second foam materials are electrically conductive. 14. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 13 further including a conductive flexible elongated member in surface contact with said first and second foam materials to permit electricity to flow through said first and second foam materials and said conductive member. 15. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 14 wherein said foldable member and said conductive foldable member are spaced from each other. 16. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 15 wherein said first and second foam materials are disposed between said foldable member and said conductive foldable member. 17. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 14 wherein said first and second foam materials have respective predetermined shapes in cross-section to provide respective initial preselected surface contact between said first and second foam materials and said conductive member when said penis is in a flaccid condition, the amount of surface contact between said first and second foam materials and said conductive member increasing respective preselected amounts from said respective initial preselected amounts from said respective preselected conductivities through said first and second foam materials in said conductive member in response to predetermined increases in penile tumescence and rigidity, whereby said first and second foam materials and said conductive member comprise said means for providing said first and second electrical output signals corresponding to penile tumescence and rigidity. 18. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 including means for detachably securing said foldable member around the penis in the form of a loop. 19. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 18 wherein said securing means are operable to provide a loop of selectable circumference. 20. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said first and second foam materials are joined to said foldable member and project from said foldable member toward said penis when said foldable member is disposed around said penis. 21. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 20 wherein said second foam material extends along substantially the entire circumference of said loop. 22. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said first foam material has a predetermined compressibility that, under predetermined conditions of penile tumescence, enables said first electrical output signal to be proportional to the amount of force on said first foam material under said condition of penile tumescence when said foldable member is disposed around said penis in the form of a loop. 23. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said second foam material has a predetermined compressibility that, under predetermined conditions of penile rigidity, enable said second electrical output signal to be proportional to the amount of force on said second foam material under said conditions of penile rigidity when said foldable member is disposed around said penis in the form of a loop. 24. The nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor as claimed in claim 3 wherein said first foam material is more compressible under a preselected force than said second foam material. 25. A nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity sensor comprising: a. a flexible, foldable member, b. means for securing said foldable member around the penis in the form of a loop, c. tumescence sensing means joined to said foldable member for sensing penile tumescence, said tumescence sensing means including a first deformable foam material projecting from said foldable member toward said penis when said foldable member is formed into said loop, said first deformable foam material having a first preselected compressibility to permit compression under predetermined conditions of penile tumescence when said foldable member is formed into said loop around said penis, said tumescence sensing means including means responsive to compression of said first deformable foam material for providing a first electrical output signal proportional to the amount of compressive force imposed by said penis on said first deformable foam material under said condition of penile tumescence when said foldable member is formed into said loop, and d. rigidity sensing means joined to said foldable member for sensing penile rigidity, said rigidity sensing means including a second foam material projecting from said foldable member toward said penis when said foldable member is formed into said loop, said second foam material having a second preselected compressibility different from said first preselected compressibility such that said second foam material is less compressible under a preselected force than said first foam material, said rigidity sensing means including means responsive to penile rigidity forces imposed on said second foam material for providing a second electrical output signal proportional to the amount of force imposed by said penis on said second foam material under said conditions of penile rigidity when said foldable member is formed into said loop. 26. A method of measuring penile tumescence and rigidity comprising: a. securing first and second foam materials having different compressibility to a flexible foldable member with corresponding first and second signal producing agents and wrapping the foldable member around a penis to permit the expansive pressure of penile tumescence and penile rigidity to produce respective tumescence and rigidity forces on the respective first and second foam materials, b. producing a first electrical signal from the first signal producing agent when the first foam material compresses under force conditions caused by penile tumescence, c. producing a second electrical signal from the second signal producing agent when the second foam material responds to force conditions caused by penile rigidity, d. sensing the first electrical signal from the first signal producing agent in response to the penile tumescence force imposed on the first foam material and interpreting the first electrical signal to measure tumescence, and e. sensing the second electrical signal from the second signal producing agent in response to the penile rigidity force imposed on the second foam material and interpreting the second electrical signal to measure rigidity. 27. The method of claim 26 including continuously recording the measurements of penile tumescence and rigidity over a preselected period of time to provide a continuous readout of tumescence and rigidity characteristics during said preselected time period. 