In a gripping device, a displacement-type force sensor is provided on a side of a driving mechanism opposite fingers to which the driving mechanism is connected to form a grip section. The driving mechanism is supported on a housing with an elastic member being disposed therebetween at a position closer to the fingers than the center of gravity of the grip section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A gripping device that grips a component, the gripping device comprising: a gripping section having at least one gripping element configured to grip the component, and a driving mechanism connected to the gripping element for driving the gripping element; a housing; an elastic member disposed between the housing and the driving mechanism; and force sensor units provided on an end portion of the driving mechanism opposite the gripping element and at a position on the housing facing the end portion, wherein the housing is configured to elastically support the driving mechanism only by the elastic member provided between a center of gravity of the gripping section, and the gripping element. 2. The gripping device according to claim 1, wherein the elastic member is configured to be provided at the center of gravity of the gripping section. 3. The gripping device according claim 1, wherein the elastic member is configured to serve as a deformation fulcrum of the gripping section relative to the housing. 4. The gripping device according to claim 3, wherein the gripping section and the elastic member are configured such that the centre of gravity of the gripping section substantially coincides with the deformation fulcrum of the elastic member. 5. The gripping device according to claim 1, wherein the elastic member is formed by a structure in which a plurality of leaf springs are stacked. 6. The gripping device according to claim 1, wherein the elastic member is formed by a rubber shaped ring or a band. 7. The gripping device according to claim 1, wherein the force sensor units comprise at least one Hall element configured to detect displacement of the driving mechanism relative to the housing, and a magnet configured to serve as a magnetic-field generating source. 8. The gripping device according to claim 1, wherein the housing is configured to contain a part of the driving mechanism and wherein the gripping element comprises at least one finger. 9. A system for controlling a robotic arm, comprising: the gripping device of claim 1, wherein the gripping device is configured for attachment to the robotic arm; and a control unit configured to control the robotic arm and the gripping device. 