A device for supporting and rotating a payload relative to a structure comprises a first coupling ring joined to the payload and a second coupling ring joined to the structure. A pair of annular bearings guide rotation of the first coupling ring relative to the second coupling ring. An annular motor has a stator fixed to one of the coupling rings and a rotor rotating the other coupling ring through a differential epicyclic train disposed inside the annular bearings.
Claims THERE IS CLAIMED: 1. Device for supporting and rotating a payload relative to a structure comprising: a first coupling ring joined to said payload; a second coupling ring joined to said structure; a pair of annular bearings for guiding rotation of said first coupling ring relative to said second coupling ring; a differential epicyclic train disposed inside said annular bearings; and an annular motor having a stator fixed to one of said coupling rings and a rotor rotating the other coupling ring through said train. 2. Device according to claim 1 wherein said rotor of said motor is joined to a satellite-holder of said train which supports and rotates two inner wheels of said train each of which meshes with a respective one of two outer wheels of said train each of which is constrained to rotate with a respective one of said first and second coupling rings. 3. Device according to claim 2 wherein said inner and outer wheels and said satellite-holder of said train are disposed within an inner central space defined radially and axially by inner races of said two annular bearings. 4. Device according to claim 3 wherein said annular motor is outside said inner central space and is axially offset relative to said train. 5. Device according to claim 2 wherein said satellite-holder is of substantially annular shape so as to provide at the center of said device a central passage around the rotation axis of said device. 6. Device according to claim 1 wherein said pair of annular bearings comprises two taper roller bearings mounted back-to-back. 7. Device according to claim 1 incorporated in a spacecraft includes a launch vehicle, a satellite, an orbital space station and a space shuttle. 8. Device according to claim 1 employed to orient a mechanism comprising a set of sensors in a telescope. 9. Device according to claim 1 used to rotate a robotic arm. 