The invention provides polypeptides having any cellulolytic activity, e.g., a cellulase activity, a endoglucanase, a cellobiohydrolase, a beta-glucosidase, a xylanase, a mannanse, a .beta.-xylosidase, an arabinofuranosidase, and/or an oligomerase activity, polynucleotides encoding these polypeptides, and methods of making and using these polynucleotides and polypeptides. In one aspect, the invention is directed to polypeptides having any cellulolytic activity, e.g., a cellulase activity, e.g., endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase, beta-glucosidase, xylanase, mannanse, .beta.-xylosidase, arabinofuranosidase, and/or oligomerase activity, including thermostable and thermotolerant activity, and polynucleotides encoding these enzymes, and making and using these polynucleotides and polypeptides. In one aspect, the invention provides polypeptides having an oligomerase activity, e.g., enzymes that convert recalcitrant soluble oligomers to fermentable sugars in the saccharification of biomass. The polypeptides of the invention can be used in a variety of pharmaceutical, agricultural, food and feed processing and industrial contexts. The invention also provides compositions or products of manufacture comprising mixtures of enzymes comprising at least one enzyme of this invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 54 and having cellobiohydrolase activity, said polypeptide encoded by the polynucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 53. 2. A composition comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 3. A food, a feed, a nutritional supplement, or a beverage comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 4. A cellulose- or cellulose derivative-composition comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 5. A wood, wood pulp, wood product, recycled paper, paper waste, paper, paper pulp or paper product comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 6. An enzyme ensemble, or "cocktail", for depolymerization of cellulosic and hemicellulosic polymers to metabolizeable carbon moieties comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 