In the method of the present invention, a wire routing tool grasps a wire, inserts one end into a connector, routes the wire along a predetermined path to another end connector under the control of a robot, and inserts the second end into that connector. The trailing end of the wire is detected with a circuit using an electrostatic technique. The tool can move the wire along a predetermined linear path to effectuate the connection.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A method of routing a wire with a robot into a particular position in a wire harness assembly, wherein the wire harness assembly includes at least one connector having a plurality of pin-receiving points, comprising the steps of: (a) cutting the wire to a predetermined length; (b) terminating both ends of the wire length, at least one end being terminated with a pin; (c) positioning the pin of the wire with a robot adjacent to the connector, including the substeps of: (1) acquiring the terminated wire with a tool on the robot; (2) moving the robot to position the tool adjacent to the connector; (3) identifying a predetermined, pin-receiving point on the connector with the robot; and (4) positioning the pin end of the wire with the robot in alignment with the predetermined pin-receiving point; (d) inserting the pin of the wire with the robot into the first predetermined pin-receiving point on the connector, including the substeps of: (1) securing a first point of the wire with a first foot of the tool; (2) sliding a second foot of the tool to a second point of the wire removed from the first point; (3) securely holding the wire at the second point with the second foot; (4) moving the second foot from the second point to a point adjacent the first foot while allowing the wire to slide through the first foot to insert the wire into the connector; (e) thereafter laying the wire with the robot into its particular position within the wire harness assembly; and (f) releasing the wire from the robot. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising, prior to releasing the wire, the steps of: (a) positioning a second end of the wire with the robot adjacent to a second connector; and (b) inserting the second end into the second connector with the robot. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of repeating steps (a) through (f) for a second wire in the wire harness assembly, but connecting the second wire to a second, predetermined, pin-receiving point on the connector. 4. A method for making a wire harness assembly, comprising the steps of: (a) positioning a plurality of connectors on a form board; (b) positioning at least one turn gate on the form board; (c) selecting a first wire for the harness; (d) marking the wire; (e) cutting the wire to a predetermined length; (f) pin terminating the pre-cut wire at both ends; (g) inserting a first pin end of the terminated wire into a first connector on the form board; (h) routing the wire over the form board through the turn gate to a second connector; and (i) inserting a second pin end of the terminated wire into the second connector, wherein each inserting step includes: (1) securing a first point of the wire with a first foot of a robot; (2) sliding a second foot of the robot to a second point of the wire removed from the first point; (3) securely holding the wire at the second point with the second foot; (4) moving the second foot from the second point to a point adjacent the first foot while allowing the wire to slide through the first foot to insert the wire into the connector. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the steps of: (a) selecting a second wire; (b) cutting the second wire to a predetermined length; (c) marking the second wire; (d) pin terminating the pre-cut, second wire; (e) inserting a first pin end of the terminated, second wire into the first connector; (f) routing the second wire over the form board through the turn gate to a third connector; and (g) inserting a second pin end of the second wire into the third connector. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the steps of pin terminating, inserting the first pin end, routing, and inserting the second pin end for both the first and second wires are done robotically. 7. A method for making a wire harness assembly using a robot, comprising the steps of: (a) cutting a wire for the harness to a predetermined length; (b) pin terminating both ends of the cut wire; (c) acquiring the terminated wire with the robot; (d) moving the wire adjacent a firt connector with the robot; (e) identifying the location of a predetermined pin receiver on the first connector with the robot; (f) inserting a first pin end of the wire into the pin receiver with the robot, including the substeps of: (1) aligning the pin end with the pin receiver; (2) clamping the wire with a first foot of the robot; (3) moving a second foot of the robot to a position away from the first foot; (4) clamping the wire with the second foot of the robot; (5) unclamping the wire with the first foot; and (6) moving the clamped second foot to a position adjacent the first foot while permitting the wire to slide through the first foot; (g) routing the wire to a second connector; (h) identifying the location of a predetermined pin receiver on the second connector with the robot; (i) inserting a second pin end of the wire into the pin receiver of the second connector with the robot; and (j) releasing the wire from the robot. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the step of routing includes bending the wire at least once. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the step of releasing the wire includes ejecting the wire from both feet of the robot. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the step of acquiring the wire includes clipping the wire into a wire guide region fabricated into both feet of the robot. 