A device and method for simultaneously manipulating multiple data storage cartridges or other storage elements in a storage library. The device housing includes an opening for receiving data storage cartridges. A gripping mechanism extends from the opening. The gripping mechanism is adapted to grip a data storage cartridge to be retrieved and to urge the data storage cartridge into the opening. One or more transport mechanisms are attached to one or more inner walls of the housing. The transport mechanisms are adapted such that once a data storage cartridge moves into the opening, the transport mechanisms will urge the data storage cartridge further into the opening until the data storage cartridge is held within the housing. The data storage cartridge can be moved further into the housing such that the gripping mechanism is free to collect additional cartridges.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manipulating a data storage cartridge, the method comprising: retrieving a first data storage cartridge from a storage compartment using a device, wherein the device comprises: a housing sized and dimensioned to hold a plurality of data storage cartridges, the housing adapted to be operable with a robot, the robot adapted to move the housing to a plurality of locations within a library of data storage cartridges such that an opening in the housing may be aligned with the data storage cartridges in the library; a gripping mechanism extending from the opening in the housing, the gripping mechanism operably attached to the housing and adapted to grip the first data storage cartridge when the first data storage cartridge is disposed outside the housing, wherein the gripping mechanism is further adapted to pull the first data storage cartridge into the opening; and a first transport mechanism disposed within and operably connected to the housing, the first transport mechanism adapted to pull the first data storage cartridge away from the gripping mechanism and further into the housing through the opening as the first data storage cartridge comes into contact with the first transport mechanism. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising pulling the first data storage cartridge within the housing by drawing the first data storage cartridge into the housing using the first transport mechanism. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising ejecting the first data storage cartridge into a first data storage cartridge reader after retrieving the first data storage cartridge. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising retrieving a second data storage cartridge from a second storage compartment using the device. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising ejecting the first data storage cartridge into a second storage compartment after retrieving the first data storage cartridge. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the gripping mechanism comprises a first rail operably connected to a first inner wall of the housing, the first rail being operable to swing a predetermined distance along a first axis of the housing; a second rail operably connected to a second inner wall of the housing and spaced away from the first rail, the second rail being operable to swing the predetermined distance along the first axis of the housing; a first tong operably connected to the first rail, the first tong being operable to move along the first rail; a second tong operably connected to the second rail, the second tong being operable to move along the second rail; wherein the first data storage cartridge may be gripped between the first tong and the second tong when the first and second tongs extend from the opening in the housing; and wherein the step of retrieving the first data storage cartridge includes: receiving the first data storage cartridge between the first tong and the second tong; causing the first rail and the second rail to swing inwardly towards the housing; causing the first tong to move inwardly along the first rail toward the housing and causing the second tong to move inwardly along the second rail toward the housing; and gripping the first data storage cartridge between the first tong and the second tong. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising drawing the first data storage cartridge further into the housing using the first transport mechanism. 8. The method of claim 6 further comprising: causing the first rail and the second rail to swing outwardly away from the housing; causing the first tong to move outwardly along the first rail away from the housing and causing the second tong to move outwardly along the second rail away from the housing; and releasing the first data storage cartridge from between the first tong and the second tong. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the device further comprises the robot and wherein the method further comprises moving the first data storage cartridge from the storage compartment to a second location, wherein the step of moving is performed using the robot. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the housing of the device includes a first axis along which the first data storage cartridge may be retrieved through the opening, and wherein the housing is further sized and dimensioned to hold a second data storage cartridge such that the first data storage cartridge and the second data storage cartridge may be held in a stack along a second axis of the housing, and wherein the method further includes: drawing the first data storage cartridge into the housing; retrieving the second data storage cartridge; drawing the second data storage cartridge into the housing; and manipulating the second data storage cartridge within the housing such that the first data storage cartridge may be ejected before the second data storage cartridge is ejected. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the gripping mechanism is configured to reciprocate back and forth with respect to the housing. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the first transport mechanism includes a belt and multiple rollers. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising retrieving a second data storage cartridge from a second storage compartment using the device while the first data storage cartridge is held in the housing, such that the first data storage cartridge and the second data storage cartridge are held in a line along a first axis of the housing that extends through the opening. 14. The method of claim 6 wherein the rails move away from each other as the rails swing inwardly with respect to the housing. 15. A method of manipulating a data storage element, the method comprising: gripping the data storage element, while the data storage element is disposed in a storage compartment, using a gripping mechanism that extends from an opening in a housing, wherein the gripping mechanism is operably attached to the housing, and wherein the housing is sized to hold a plurality of data storage elements; moving the data storage element away from the storage compartment and into the opening using the gripping mechanism; and moving the data storage element away from the gripping mechanism and further into the housing through the opening using a first transport mechanism, the first transport mechanism being disposed within and operably connected to the housing. 16. The method of claim 15 further comprising moving the data storage element still further into the housing and away from the first transport mechanism using a second transport mechanism disposed within and operably connected to the housing, the second transport mechanism being disposed adjacent the first transport mechanism; and receiving an additional data storage element through the opening while the data storage element is held in the housing, such that the data storage element and the additional data storage element are held in a line along a first axis of the housing that extends through the opening. 17. The method of claim 15 wherein the gripping mechanism comprises a first rail operably connected to a first inner wall of the housing, the first rail being operable to swing a predetermined distance along a first axis of the housing; a second rail operably connected to a second inner wall of the housing and spaced away from the first rail, the second rail being operable to swing the predetermined distance along the first axis of the housing; a first tong operably connected to the first rail and movable along the first rail; and a second tong operably connected to the second rail and movable along the second rail; wherein the first data storage element may be gripped between the first tong and the second tong when the first and second tongs extend from the opening in the housing; and wherein gripping the data storage element comprises: swinging the rails and tongs outwardly so that the tongs grip the data storage element. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein moving the data storage element away from the storage compartment comprises: swinging the rails inwardly toward the housing; and moving the first and second tongs inwardly toward the housing along the first and second rails, respectively. 