The present invention provides methods and systems for discretized, combinatorial processing of regions of a substrate such as for the discovery, implementation, optimization, and qualification of new materials, processes, and process sequence integration schemes used in integrated circuit fabrication. A substrate having an array of differentially processed regions thereon is processed by delivering materials to or modifying regions of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of combinatorial processing, comprising: receiving a silicon based solar substrate comprising regions wherein a partially completed data storage device is defined within each of the regions; processing the regions on the silicon based solar substrate in a site-isolated manner through a vacuum based deposition process, wherein at least two of the regions are processed differently from one another; and completing the partially completed storage device. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the regions on the substrate in the site-isolated manner, wherein at least two of the regions are processed differently from one another comprises varying a process condition. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the regions on the substrate in the site-isolated manner, wherein at least two of the regions are processed differently from one another comprises varying a deposition of a thin film. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein varying the deposition of the thin film comprises depositing the thin film by physical vapor deposition. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein varying the deposition of the thin film comprises depositing the thin film by chemical vapor deposition. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein completing the partially completed storage devices comprises processing the substrate in a site-isolated manner wherein at least two of the regions are processed differently. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein completing the partially completed storage devices comprises processing the substrate in a conventional manner. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing is locally uniform within the regions and the regions are isolated from other regions on the substrate during the processing. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising additional processing operations, wherein a portion of the operations are performed in a combinatorial manner and other operations are performed in a conventional manner. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein completing the partially completed storage device comprises forming a capacitor. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising evaluating capacitance of each of the capacitors to determine the effect of modifying the partially completed data storage device. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising evaluating leakage of each of the capacitors to determine the effect of modifying the partially completed storage device. 13. A method of combinatorial processing, comprising: receiving a silicon based solar substrate comprising a plurality of site-isolated regions wherein a partially completed capacitor is defined within the plurality of site-isolated regions; depositing a thin-film in a site-isolated manner by a vacuum based physical vapor deposition, wherein the thin film is varied in at least two of the site-isolated regions; completing the partially completed capacitor within the plurality of site-isolated regions to form a plurality of capacitors; and performing electrical tests on the plurality of capacitors to evaluate an effect of the varied thin film deposition on the plurality of capacitors. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the physical vapor deposition comprises atomic layer deposition. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the thin film is varied by varying a process condition of the physical vapor deposition. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the thin film is varied by varying a process sequence of the physical vapor deposition. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein completing the plurality of capacitors comprises at least one conventional processing step. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein receiving the substrate comprises receiving a 300 mm semiconductor wafer. 