Processes for inspecting a surface during device fabrication include contacting the surface with a tactile sensor. The tactile sensor is an electroluminescent tactile sensor array or a current electrode sensor array or a capacitive sensor array. The sensor is configured to convert local stress resulting from contact with the surface into light intensity and/or modulation in local current density. Both the light intensity and current density are linearly proportional to the local stress. The image stress provided by the sensor can then be captured by focusing the light intensity onto a suitable detector to provide a topographical image of the surface. Current density can alternatively be directly sensed via high resolution electrode array.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for inspecting planarity and/or periodicity of an interconnect array surface, comprising: contacting the interconnect array surface with a tactile sensor; forming a topographical image of the array surface, wherein forming the topographical image comprises capturing light intensity variations generated by the tactile sensor across the interconnect array surface, wherein the light intensity variations are a function of compressive localized stress, and wherein the light intensity variations are linearly proportional to the local stress; and inspecting planarity and/or periodicity of the interconnect array surface. 2. The process of claim 1, wherein the tactile sensor comprises an electro luminescent device. 3. The process of claim 1, wherein the tactile sensor is an electroluminescent tactile sensor array. 4. The process of Claim 1, wherein the interconnect array surface comprises a spring loaded contact array. 5. The process of claim 1, wherein the interconnect array surface comprises a ball grid array, a C4 array, a column grid array or a pad array. 6. The process of claim 1, further comprising determining missing, low, high or oversized features from the topographical image. 7. A process for aligning a surface mounted package onto a substrate, the process comprising: contacting a surface of the surface mounted package with a tactile sensor, wherein the surface comprises at least one solder bump; mapping the surface of the surface mounted package; contacting a surface of a substrate with a tactile sensor, wherein the surface comprises at least one pad; mapping the surface of the substrate, wherein mapping the surfaces is selected from the group consisting of capturing electrical signal intensity variations generated by the tactile sensor across the surfaces, wherein the variations are a function of compressive localized stress, wherein the electrical signal intensity variations are linearly proportional to the local stress and capturing light intensity variations generated by the tactile sensor across the surfaces, wherein the variations are a function of com ressive localized stress wherein the light intensit variations are linearly proportional to the local stress; and aligning the at least one solder bump of the surface mounted package with the at least one pad of the substrate. 8. The process of claim 7, wherein the tactile sensor comprises an electroluminescent device. 9. The process of claim 7, wherein the substrate is a printed circuit board. 10. The process of claim 7, wherein the surface mounted package comprises a ball grid array, a flip chip die ball grid array, a C4 array, or a column grid array. 11. The process of claim 7, further comprising integrating information obtained during the mapping with a robot and manipulating a position of the surface mounted package relative to the substrate. 12. The process of claim 7, wherein the tactile sensor comprises a current sensing electrode tactile sensor array. 13. A process for inspecting a surface during device manufacture, the process comprising: contacting the surface with a tactile electroluminescent sensor array; and capturing variations in electroluminescent and/or electrical signal intensity as a function of localized stress caused by contacting the surface with the tactile electroluminescent sensor array, wherein the variations provide topographical surface information. 14. The process of claim 13, wherein the surface comprises a ball grid array surface, a flip chip die surface, or a heat sink surface. 15. The process of claim 13, wherein the tactile electroluminescent sensor array comprises nanoparticle layers configured to interact with the localized stress. 16. The process of claim 13, wherein capturing variations in electroluminescent and/or electrical signal intensity comprises providing optical communication with a charge coupled device detector. 17. The process of claim 13, wherein capturing variations in electrical signal intensity comprises providing electrical communication with an electronic signal processor. 18. A process for inspecting a surface during device manufacture on a substrate, the process comprising: mapping the surface by contacting the surface with a planar surface of a current sensing electrode tactile sensor array comprising a plurality of discrete electrode arrays; capturing variations in current as a function of localized stress caused by contacting the surface with the current sensing electrode tactile sensor arrays, wherein the variations provide topographical surface information; and integrating information obtained during the mapping with a robot and manipulating a position of a surface mounted package relative to the substrate. 19. The process of claim 18, wherein the surface comprises a ball grid array surface, a flip chip die surface, or a heat sink surface. 20. The process of claim 18, further comprising determining missing, low, high or oversized features from the topographical surface information. 21. The process of claim 18, wherein the current variations are proportional to the local stress. 22. The process of claim 18, wherein the surface comprises an interconnect array. 