A robotic system includes a robot for moving a payload in response to a calculated input force. Sensors in respective sensor housings are connected to a handle, each sensor including a light emitter and receiver. The sensors measure a light beam received by a respective receiver. A controller calculates the calculated input force using received light. Each sensor housing modifies an interruption of the light beam in a sensor when the actual input force is applied, and the controller controls the robot using the calculated input force. A method of controlling the robot includes emitting the light beam, flexing a portion of the sensor housing(s) using the actual input force to interrupt the light beam, and using a host machine to calculate the calculated input force as a function of the portion of the light beam received by the light receiver. The robot is controlled using the calculated input force.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising: at least one handle; a robot adapted for moving a payload in response to a calculated input force, the calculated input force being determined when a human operator applies an actual input force to the at least one handle; a plurality of sensors each enclosed within a respective sensor housing, and operatively connected to the at least one handle, wherein each of the plurality of sensors includes a light emitter adapted for emitting a light beam and a light receiver adapted for receiving at least a portion of the light beam, and wherein each of the plurality of sensors is adapted for measuring the portion of the light beam received by a respective one of the light receivers; and a controller having a host machine and an algorithm, the algorithm being executable by the host machine to thereby determine the calculated input force using the portion of the light beam received by each of the plurality of light receivers; wherein each of the respective sensor housings corresponds to a different one of an x, y, and z Cartesian direction of measurement, and includes a resilient member disposed between a pair of rigid portions, wherein the resilient member is compliant only in the x, y, or z Cartesian direction of measurement for the corresponding sensor housing, and is adapted to interrupt a transmission of the light beam when the actual input force is applied to the at least one handle by the operator in the Cartesian direction of measurement, and wherein the controller is adapted to automatically control an action of the robot using the calculated input force. 2. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the robot is configured as an overhead lift assistance mechanism including at least a motor and a brake. 3. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein an application of the actual input force bends or flexes the resilient member into a path of the light beam to at least partially interrupt a transmission of the light beam. 4. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors are adapted for determining the actual input force in the x, y, and z Cartesian directions of measurement by measuring the portion of the light beam received by each of the plurality of light receivers. 5. The robotic system of claim 4, wherein at least one of the sensor housings is enclosed within another one of the sensor housings. 6. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors are adapted for measuring a torque by measuring the portion of the light beam received by each of the plurality of light receivers. 7. The robotic system of claim 1, further comprising a sensor assembly housing operatively connected to the at least one handle, wherein the sensor assembly housing is adapted for containing the plurality of sensor housings. 8. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the sensors are positioned to obtain a relative collector current of approximately 50% when the actual input force is not being applied to the at least one handle. 9. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors includes three sensors arranged with respect to each other to form a T-shape structure mounted to the at least one handle. 10. A control system for providing motion control of a robot adapted for moving a payload in response to a calculated input force, the calculated input force being determined when a human operator applies an actual input force to a handle, the control system comprising: a plurality of sensor housings each operatively connected to the handle, wherein each of the sensor housings corresponds to a different one of an x, y, and z Cartesian direction of measurement, and includes a resilient member disposed between a pair of rigid portions, wherein the resilient member is compliant only in the x, y, or z Cartesian direction of measurement for the corresponding sensor housing; a plurality of sensors each enclosed within a respective one of the plurality of sensor housings, wherein each of the plurality of sensors includes a light emitter adapted for emitting a light beam and a light receiver adapted for receiving at least a portion of the light beam, and wherein each of the plurality of sensors is adapted for measuring the portion of the light beam received by a respective one of the light receivers; and a host machine having an algorithm adapted, when executed by the host machine, to determine the calculated input force using the portion of the light beam received by each of the plurality of light receivers; wherein the resilient member of each of the respective sensor housings is adapted to at least partially interrupt a transmission of the light beam in a corresponding one of the x, y, and z Cartesian directions of measurement when the actual input force is applied by the operator to the handle, and wherein the host machine is adapted to execute the algorithm to automatically control an action of the robot using the calculated input force. 11. The control system of claim 10, wherein the actual input force flexes the resilient member into a path of the light beam to at least partially interrupt the light beam. 12. The control system of claim 10, wherein at least one of the sensor housings is enclosed within another one of the sensor housings. 13. The control system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of sensors are adapted for measuring a torque around each x, y, and z Cartesian axis by measuring the portion of the light beam received by each of the plurality of light receivers. 14. The control system of claim 10, further comprising a sensor assembly housing operatively connected to the handle, wherein the sensor assembly housing contains the plurality of sensor housings and is adapted for securing the sensor housings to a substantially rigid surface. 15. The control system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of sensors includes three sensors arranged with respect to each other to form a T-shape structure. 16. A method of controlling a robot adapted for moving a payload in response to a calculated input force that is determined using an actual input force applied by a human operator to a handle of a handle assembly, the method comprising: arranging three sensor housings into a T-shape structure, wherein each sensor housing corresponds to one of an x, y, and z Cartesian direction of measurement, and wherein each sensor housing includes a resilient member disposed between a pair of rigid portions that is compliant only in the Cartesian direction of measurement for the corresponding sensor housing; emitting a light beam from a light emitter of each of the sensors toward a corresponding light receiver; flexing the resilient member of at least one sensor housing using the actual input force to the handle to thereby modify an interruption of a transmission of the light beam by the resilient member within the sensor; measuring a portion of the light beam received by the corresponding light receiver; using a host machine to determine the calculated input force as a function of the portion of the light beam received by the corresponding light receiver; and automatically controlling an action of the robot using the calculated input force. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein measuring a portion of the light beam received by the corresponding light receiver includes measuring a voltage output signal at the light receiver of each sensor. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein using a host machine to calculate the input force as a function of the portion of the light beam received by the light receiver includes using the controller to automatically access at least one calibrated lookup table. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the robot is an overhead assist device and the payload is one of an engine and a transmission, and wherein automatically controlling an action of the robot includes moving one of a transmission and an engine using the overhead assist device. 