A robot using a shielded-arc welding torch has an automatic tool change station in a small area of the work envelope. An effector adaptor is attached to the robot effector. The torch is secured to a tool adaptor. The tool adaptor body has a pair of semi-circular shells around it, with upper and lower mounting flanges on each of the shells and projecting in directions radially outward from the tool adaptor. A groove in the effector adaptor receives the upper flanges which are locked in the grooves by outward spring bias on the shells. A tool changer at the tool change station has a pair of grippers operable on the shells to squeeze them toward each other to remove the upper flanges from the effector adaptor groove, and remove the tool adaptor from the effector adaptor. A tool storage magazine has a retainer groove at each of multiple circularly-spaced tool receiving pockets. The lower flanges are biased outward into locking engagement with the retainer groove when the squeezing force of the grippers is released after deposit of the tool adaptor in the magazine. Connectors for electric, water and gas transmission are included in the adaptors, as is a set of guide and cutter assemblies for welding wire. Cutter operating jaws are provided at the tool change station.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. In a system for processing a workpiece with one or more processing tools and wherein a tool is mounted on an effector for causing the tool to operate on a workpiece, the improvement comprising: tool mounting apparatus including a tool adaptor having means thereon for receiving and securing one of said tools thereon; and an effector adaptor having means thereon for attachment to said effector; said tool adaptor having a body that is generally symmetrical about an axis and having first and second outwardly projecting flanges mounted on said body and projecting in directions radially outward from said axis and located on opposite sides of said axis; said effector adaptor having a groove receiving said flanges whereby said tool adaptor is secured to said effector adaptor; said flanges being movable inward on said body relative to said axis to remove the flanges from the groove and thereby enable separation of the tool adaptor from the effector adaptor, and said flanges being biased outwardly from said axis and movable outward from said axis to securely re-engage said flanges in said groove and thereby again secure the tool adaptor to said effector adaptor. 2. The improvement of claim 1 and further comprising: first and second flange shells; guide posts connecting said flange shells to said body; springs biasing said shells outward from said axis, said shells being slidably movable on said posts, said first and second flanges being located on said first and second shells, respectively. 3. In a system for processing a workpiece with one or more processing tools and wherein a tool is mounted on an effector for causing the tool to operate on a workpiece, the improvement comprising: tool mounting apparatus including a tool adaptor having means thereon for receiving and seuring one of said tools thereon; an effector adaptor having means thereon for attachment to said effector; said tool adaptor having a body that is generally symmetrical about an axis and having first and second outwardly projecting flanges mounted on said body and projecting in directions radially outward from said axis and located on opposite sides of said axis; first and second flange shells; guide posts connecting said flange shells to said tool adaptor body; springs biasing said shells outward from said axis, said shells being slidably movable on said posts, said first and second flanges being located on said first and second shells, respectively; said effector adaptor having a groove receiving said flanges whereby said tool adaptor is secured to said effector adaptor; and a tool change apparatus including: a base; gripper mounts on said base and movable thereon; grippers attached to said gripper mounts; and a power actuator attached to said gripper mounts and operable, when energized, to force said grippers toward each other for engagement of said grippers with said flange shells when said shells are in positions of registry with said grippers, and squeeze said shells toward each other to withdraw said flanges from said effector adaptor groove and thereby release said tool adaptor from said effector adaptor. 4. The improvement of claim 3 wherein: said power actuator is double acting to urge said grippers apart to enable placement of said grippers to said positions of registry with said shells. 5. The improvement of claim 3 wherein: said power actuator includes a first member connected to one of said gripper mounts and second member connected to the other of said gripper mounts. 6. The improvement of claim 5 and wherein: said gripper mounts are elongate arms, each arm having a central portion pivotally attached to said base, each arm having one of said grippers attached to one end of said arm, and each arm having one or the other of said first and second members connected to the other end of said arm. 7. The improvement of claim 6 wherein: said first and second members both move in space, one of said grippers is longitudinally movable on one of said arms, and a positioning spring is mounted on said one arm and biases said one gripper toward a stop. 8. The improvement of claim 7 wherein: said grippers are pivotally mounted to said gripper mounts. 9. The improvement of claim 3 and further comprising: a gripper elevator including a second power actuator having a first component connected to said base and a second component supporting said gripper mounts and operable to drive said gripper mounts in a direction generally perpendicular to the direction of movement of said grippers toward each other. 10. The improvement of claim 9 wherein: said gripper elevator includes first and second mounting brackets fixed to said base; a pair of guide posts fastened to said brackets, said first component being mounted on said second bracket, an elevator bar slidably mounted to said guide posts, said second component being connected to said bar, and said gripper mounts being mounted to said bar. 11. The improvement of claim 10 wherein: said gripper mounts are arms pivotally mounted to said bar. 12. The improvement of claim 3 and further comprising: wire cutter operating arms mounted on said base, and a second power actuator connected to said arms; and first and second jaws so mounted on said base as to receive said tool adaptor therein. 13. The improvement of claim 12 and further comprising: first and second wire cutter dies on said arms and closeable together by said second power actuator to cut welding wire when disposed between said dies. 14. The improvement of claim 12 wherein said effector adaptor includes: a welding wire shearing assembly including a first welding wire guide and support die, first welding wire guide and shearing dies plunger, and at least one of said jaws is registrable with said plunger and operable by said second power actuator to drive said plunger in wire cutting direction to sever welding wire extending through said effector adaptor. 15. The improvement of claim 14 and further comprising: second and third shearing assemblies on said effector adaptor like the first-mentioned shearing assembly, said shearing assemblies being circularly spaced on said effector adaptor and the plungers being registrable with said jaws for substantially simultaneous actuation by said second power actuator to cut welding wire extending through any of said shearing assemblies. 16. The improvement of claim 12 wherein said tool adaptor incldues: a plurality of welding wire guides therein having axes generally parallel to said body axis; a plurality of wire shearing dies associated with said wire guides; a plurality of die driving plungers associated with said dies and drivable radially inward toward said body axis to sever welding wire extending through an associated one of said guides. 17. The improvement of claim 16 wherein: said guides and plungers are circularly spaced around said body axis about 120 degrees apart. 18. The improvement of claim 3 wherein the effector is on a robot arm whereby the tool is given an operating envelope, the improvement further comprising: a tool storage magazine having a plurality of tool pots for tool adaptors, a portion of said tool change apparatus and a portion of said magazine including one of said tool pots being cooperable inside a reserved volume of said operating envelope to establish a tool change station, said magazine being operable to move various one of said tool pots to and from said tool change station. 19. The improvement of claim 18 wherein: said magazine is arranged whereby only one of said tool pots is in said operating envelope at a time, each of said tool pots having a flange receiving groove to receive a flange of one of said tool adaptors and secure said tool adaptor to said magazine. 20. The improvement of claim 19 wherein: said tool adaptor has third and fourth outwardly projecting flanges axially spaced from said first and second flanges and receivable in said receiving grooves of said tool pots to secure its tool adaptor in a selected one of said tool pots. 21. In a system for processing a workpiece with one or more processing tools and wherein a tool is mounted on an effector for causing the tool to operate on a workpiece, the improvement comprising: tool mounting apparatus including a tool adaptor having means thereon for receiving and securing one of said tools thereon; an effector adaptor having means thereon for attachment to said effector; said tool adaptor and effector adaptor being removably attached together; said tool adaptor having a top wall with a plurality of apertures therein for fluid communication fittings; and said effector adaptor having a top wall with a plurality of apertures therein for fluid communication fittings to mate with fittings in said tool adaptor for transfer of fluids through said adaptors; first additional apertures in the top wall of said tool adaptor, for electrical connectors; second additional apertures in the top wall of said effector adaptor for electrical connectors arranged to mate with electrical connectors in the tool adaptor for providing electrical power channels through said adaptors. 22. The improvement of claim 21 wherein: said tool adaptor and said effector adaptor are nickel-based plated for electromagnetic shielding. 23. The improvement of claim 21 and further comprising: fluid transfer fittings in at least one of said apertures in each of said top walls, the fitting in one top wall being in registry with a fitting in the other of said top walls for mating therewith when said adaptors are secured together to transfer fluid through a sealed passage through said adaptors, the fitting in the effector adaptor including a check valve oriented in a direction to prevent flow from said effector adaptor toward said tool adaptor when said tool adaptor is separated from said effector adaptor, the fitting in the tool adaptor having a top and having a projection in the top thereof aligned with the check valve and operable against the check valve when the tool adaptor is secured in the effector adaptor to hold the check valve open and permit fluid flow from the effector adaptor through the fitting in the effector adaptor and through the tool adaptor fitting and make positive reliable high current electrical power connection between the check valve and the tool adaptor fitting; and a flexible electrical conductor secured at one end in an end of the check valve and secured at an opposite end in a stationary part of said fitting in the effector adaptor and electrically insulated from said effector adaptor, to enable movement of the check valve relative to the effector adaptor as the tool adaptor is secured to the effector adaptor and maintain reliable electrical conduction of high currents from the fitting in the effector adaptor to the mating fitting in the tool adaptor. 24. The improvement of claim 23 and wherein: said fittings have cooperating bosses and cavities with sealing means therein cooperating to provide a sealed conduit through said adaptors when said adaptors are secured together. 25. The improvement of claim 21 and further comprising; an additional aperture in said effector adaptor; and a tool-in-place switch button at said additional aperture for contacting the top of said tool adaptor and operating a switch to indicate when said adaptors are properly secured together. 26. In a system for processing a workpiece with one or more processing tools and wherein a tool is mounted on an effector for causing the tool to operate on a workpiece, the improvement comprising: tool mounting apparatus including a tool adaptor having means thereon for receiving and securing one of said tools thereon; an effector adaptor having means thereon for attachment to said effector; said tool adaptor and effector adaptor being removably attached together; said tool adaptor having a wall with an aperture therein for fitting means for fluid communication therethrough; and said effector adaptor having a wall with an aperture therein for fitting means for fluid communication therethrough, said apertures being so located in said tool adaptor and in said effector adaptor for said fitting means of said effector adaptor to mate with said fitting means of said tool adaptor when said tool adaptor is attached to said effector adaptor for controlled transfer of fluid through said adaptors; first fitting means mounted in said aperture in said tool adaptor and electrically insulated from said tool adaptor for conducting fluid and electricity through said aperture therein; second fitting means mounted in said aperture in said effector adaptor and electrically insulated from said effector adaptor and arranged to mate with said first fitting means when said tool adaptor is attached to said effector adaptor for providing a fluid flow path from said effector adaptor to said tool adaptor and for providing an electrical power path through said apertures and insulated from said adaptors. 27. The improvement of claim 26 and wherein: said second fitting means in the effector adaptor includes a check valve oriented in a direction to prevent flow from said effector adaptor toward said tool adaptor when said tool adaptor is separated from said effector adaptor. 28. The improvement of claim 27 wherein: said first fitting means has a projection in the top thereof aligned with the check valve and operable when the tool adaptor is secured in the effector adaptor to hold the check valve open and permit fluid flow from the effector adaptor through the said second fitting means in the effector adaptor and through the said first fitting means in the tool adaptor. 29. The improvement of claim 28 and further comprising: a flexible electrical conductor secured at one end to an end of the check valve and secured at an opposite end in a stationary part of said second fitting means and electrically insulated from said effector adaptor. 30. The improvement of claim 29 and wherein: said fitting means have cooperating bosses and cavities with sealing means therein cooperating to provide a sealed conduit through said adaptors when said adaptors are secured together. 31. The improvement of claim 26 and further comprising: an additional aperture in said effector adaptor; and a tool-in-place signal means at said additional aperture for indicating when said adaptors are properly secured together. 