A visual navigation system navigates an electrically controllable apparatus such as a mobile robot. Navigation commands are generated to move the mobile apparatus based upon the location of the mobile apparatus. Once the location of the mobile apparatus is determined and the coordinates of a new position are provided, then the commands are transmitted to the mobile apparatus to relocate to the new position. The repetitive update of the location and move commands ensure the movement of the mobile apparatus without wire or rails.
Claims We claim: 1. A navigation system for navigating a mobile apparatus that is electrically controllable, comprising: means for locating the mobile apparatus to determine the present position of the mobile apparatus; means for generating navigation commands to navigate the mobile apparatus from the present position of the mobile apparatus, to a desired position; means for communicating the navigation commands to the mobile apparatus; means for controlling the mobile apparatus in response to the navigation commands; and wherein the means for locating the mobile apparatus comprises: means for providing a predefined pattern of a plurality of lighted points mounted upon the mobile apparatus; off-board means for obtaining an image of the plurality of lighted points; and means for determining the present position of said mobile apparatus based on said image of the plurality of lighted points. 2. The navigation system according to claim 1 further comprising: off-board transmitting means for transmitting the present position of the mobile apparatus to the command generating means. 3. The navigation system according to claim 2 wherein the off-board image obtaining means comprises: a raster scan camera means for converting light from the plurality of lighted points to an electrical signal that represents a waveform of light intensity in relationship to raster scan position of the raster scan camera means, the raster scan position being identified by frame, row and column coordinates. 4. The navigation system according to claim 3 wherein the locating means comprises: means for identifying clusters of light from the waveform of light intensity; means for comparing the clusters of light to an expected cluster of light patterns to identify the plurality of lighted points. 5. The navigation system according to claim 4 wherein the identifying means comprises: means for transforming the waveform of light intensity from an analog signal to a digital signal. 6. The navigation system according to claim 5 wherein the transformation means comprises: means for digitizing the waveform of light intensity to obtain a first digital signal; means for dividing the first digital signal into a row digital signal and a column digital signal that correspond to the raster coordinates; summation means for performing a vector summations of the row and column digital signals to obtain first and second integrated signals; and comparator means for comparing the first and second integrated signals to a predetermined threshold to obtain a first ordinate signal and second ordinate signal thereby. 7. The navigation system according to claim 6 wherein the identifying means comprises: means for locating centroids that represent the clusters of light from the first and second ordinates; and means for comparing a pattern created by the centroids to the predefined pattern of the lighted points. 8. The navigation system according to claim 7 further comprising: second means for transforming the centroids onto a linear spatial plane. 9. The navigation system according to claim 1 wherein the command generating means comprises: means for receiving the present position of the mobile apparatus; means for receiving the desired position; means for comparing the desired position to the present position of the mobile apparatus and to provide a move signal when the results of the comparison indicate the present position of the mobile apparatus is different than the desired position; and means responsive to the move signal to move the mobile apparatus. 10. The navigation system according to claim 1 further comprising: means for filtering of reflected images of the lighted points. 11. The navigation system according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of lighted points are arranged in a predefined pattern of at least 3 lighted points and the location means comprises: means for obtaining an image of the 3 lighted points when one of the 3 lighted points is obstructed from view of the image means. 12. A method for navigating mobile apparatuses that are electrically controllable, comprising the steps: locating the mobile apparatus to determine its present position; generating navigation commands by a command generating means to navigate a mobile apparatus from its present position to a desired position; communicating the navigation commands to the mobile apparatus; controlling the mobile apparatus in response to the navigation commands; wherein the step of locating the mobile apparatus comprises: providing a predefined pattern of a plurality of lighted points mounted upon the mobile apparatus; obtaining off-board an image of the plurality of lighted points; and determining the present position of said mobile apparatus based on said image of the plurality of lighted points. 13. The method according to claim 12 further comprising the steps of: transmitting from off-board, the present position of the mobile apparatus to the command generating means. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein the step of obtaining an image comprises the step of: converting with a raster scan camera means light from the plurality of lighted points to an electrical signal that represents a waveform of light intensity in relationship to raster scan position of the raster scan camera means, the raster scan position being identified by frame, row and column coordinates. 15. The method according to claim 14 wherein the step of locating the mobile apparatus comprises the steps of: identifying clusters of light from the waveform of light intensity; and comparing the cluster of light to an expected clusters of light to identify the plurality of lighted points. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein the step of identifying clusters of light comprises the step of: transforming the waveform of light intensity from an analog signal to a digital signal. 17. The method according to claim 16 wherein the step of transforming comprises: digitizing the waveform of light intensity to obtain a first digital signal; dividing the first digital signal into a row digital signal and a column digital signal that correspond to the raster coordinates; performing vector summations of the row and column digital signals to obtain first and second integrated signals; and comparing the first and second integrated signals to a predetermined threshold to obtain a first ordinate signal and second ordinate signal thereby. 18. The method according to claim 17 wherein the identifying step comprises: locating centroids that represent the clusters of light from the first and second ordinates; and comparing the pattern created by the centroids to the predefined pattern of the plurality of lighted points. 19. The method according to claim 18 further comprising the step of: transforming the centroids onto a linear spatial plane. 20. The method according to claim 12 wherein the step of generating commands comprises: receiving the present position of the mobile apparatus; receiving the desired position; comparing the desired position to the present position of the mobile apparatus and to provide a move signal when the results of the comparison indicate that the present position of the mobile apparatus is different than the desired position; and moving the mobile apparatus in response to the move signal. 21. The method according to claim 13 further comprising the step of: filtering of reflected images of the lighted points. 22. The method according to claim 21, wherein the plurality of lighted points are arranged in a predefined pattern of at least 3 lighted points, further comprising the step of: obtaining an image of the mobile apparatus when one of the 3 lighted points is obstructed from view. 