A gantry type orthogonal axes manipulator system including a rack and pinion mechanical drive for the X and Y axis assemblies and a ball screw mechanical drive for the Z axis assembly employs closed loop DC servo electrical drives controlled by the conventional numerical control techniques. A rotary index feature permits horizontal rotation of the Y axis assembly, which supports the Z axis assembly, at the end of travel of the X axis assembly to service work zones on either side of the X axis assembly.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A gantry type orthogonal axis manipulator system exhibiting machine tool design features which permit off-line programming in Cartesian coordinates using conventional numerical control techniques, comprising: X, Y and Z axis assemblies, each assembly including a guide means, a carriage means coupled to the guide means and a drive means for controlling the travel of the carriage along said guide means, said assemblies being operatively coupled to form an orthogonal axis manipulator system; means for supporting said orthogonal axis manipulator system in an elevated position above a first work area, such that X axis assembly is maintained in a fixed elevational position by the supporting means; said guide means of said X and Y axis assemblies including a horizontally disposed dual guide rail system to provide rigidity and minimize deflection resulting from torsional-type bending modes during the travel of the carriage means along the guide means; the Y axis assembly being coupled to said X axis carriage means and including a Y axis support arm extending from said axis carriage means and supporting the guide means and carriage means of said Y axis assembly, wherein the Z axis assembly is coupled to said Y axis carriage means and includes a vertically disposed dual guide rail system to provide rigidity and minimize deflection resulting from torsional-type bending modes during the travel of the carriage means along the guide means; said drive means of each assembly including a mechanical drive means connected to the respective carriage means and a DC servo motor means with resolver feedback in a closed loop configuration coupled to said mechanical drive means to cause said carriage means to traverse the respectivee guide means in response to carriage position signals; rotary index means for horizontally rotating said Y axis assembly about said X axis carriage at the end of travel of said X axis carriage on the guide means of said X axis assembly from a first position serving said first work area on one side of said X axis assembly to at least a second position on the opposite side to serve a second work area in response to a rotary control drive signal, and control means connected to the DC servo motor means of the drive mean of said X, Y and Z axes assemblies to provide said carriage position signals to control of the movement of the respective carriage means, and connected to said rotary index means to provide said rotary control drive signal. 2. In a system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the mechanical drive means of each of said X and Y axis assemblies consist of a rack and pinion mechanism, and the mechanical drive means of said Z axis assembly consisting of a ball screw mechanism. 3. In a system as claimed in claim 1 including limit switch means coupled to the DC servo motor means of each assembly to indicate the end of travel limits of the respective carriage means as a function of the number of revolutions of said DC servo motor means. 4. In a system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said Y axis assembly includes a Y axis support arm extending from said X axis carriage means and supporting the guide means and carriage means of said Y axis assembly, said Y axis support arm being tapered at the end which is remote from said X axis carriage means to concentrate the mass of the Y axis support arm at the X axis carriage means to reduce the moving mass of the Y axis support arm and improve the accuracy of the positioning of the Z axis assembly being transported on the Y axis carriage means. 5. In a system as claimed in claim 1 further including a multiple axis rotary wrist mechanism attached to said Z axis assembly and being responsive to position signals to provide controlled rotary axis motion in combination with the linear axis motion of said X, Y and Z assemblies. 6. A system as claimed in claim 1 wherein said rotary index means provides for the selective positioning of said Y axis assembly means at points intermediate said first and second positions to service a third work area at the end of the guide means of said X axis assembly. 7. A system as claimed in claim 2 wherein a gear arrangement couples said DC servo motor means to the pinion of said rack and pinion mechanism, the output shaft of said gear arrangement being the pinion of said rack and pinion mechanism. 8. A system as claimed in claim 2 wherein the combination of the dual guide rail way system and the ball-screw mechanism of the Z axis assembly are located on the centerline of the Z axis assembly such that the vertical loads supported by the ball-screw mechanism act through the centerline of the Z axis assembly. 9. A system as claimed in claim 2 further including a power off-brake on means associated with said Z axis assembly to prevent back driving of the Z axis assembly during power off conditions. 10. A gantry type orthogonal axis manipulator system exhibiting machine tool design features which permit off-line programming in Cartesian coordinates using conventional numerical control techniques, comprising: X, Y and Z axis assemblies, each assembly including a guide means, a carriage means coupled to the guide means and a drive means for controlling the travel of the carriage along said guide means, said assemblies being operatively coupled to form an orthogonal axis manipulator system; means for supporting said orthogonal axis manipulator system in an elevated position above a first work area, such that X axis assembly is maintained in a fixed elevational position by the supporting means; said guide means of said X and Y axis assemblies including a horizontally disposed dual guide rail system to provide rigidity and minimize deflection resulting from torsional-type bending modes during the travel of the carriage means along the guide means; the Y axis assembly being coupled to said X axis carriage means and including a Y axis support arm extending from said X axis carriage means and supporting the guide means and carriage means of said Y axis assembly, said Y axis support arm including first and second tapered sections at the end which is remote from said X axis carriage means to concentrate the mass of the Y axis support arm closer to the X axis carriage means than an arm with constant cross section in order to reduce the moving mass of the Y axis support arm and improve the accuracy of the positioning of the Z axis assembly being transported on the Y axis carriage means, said first and second tapered sections defining therebetween an open center line area through which the Z axis depends, which Z axis assembly further includes a vertically disposed dual guide rail system to provide rigidity and minimize deflection resulting from torsional-type bending modes during the travel of the carriage means along the guide means; said drive means of each assembly including a mechanical drive means connected to the respective carriage means and a DC servo motor means with resolveer feedback in a closed loop configuration coupled to said mechanical drive means to cause said carriage means to traverse the respective guide means in response to carriage position signals; and control means connected to the DC servo motor means of the drive means of said X, Y and Z axes assemblies to provide said carriage position signals to control of the movement of the respective carriage means. 11. In a system as claimed in claim 10 wherein the mechanical drive means of each of said X and Y axis assemblies consist of a rack and pinion mechanism, and the mechanical drive means of said Z axis assembly consisting of a ball screw mechanism. 12. In a system as claimed in claim 10 including limit switch means coupled to the DC servo motor means of each assembly to indicate the end of travel limits of the respective carriage means as a function of the number of revolutions of said DC servo motor means. 13. In a system as claimed in claim 10 further including a multiple axis rotary wrist mechanism attached to said Z axis assembly and being responsive to position signals to provide controlled rotary axis motion in combination with the linear axis motion of said X, Y and Z assemblies. 14. A system as claimed in claim 11 wherein a gear arrangement couples said DC servo motor means to the pinion of said rack and pinion mechanism, the output shaft of said gear arrangement being the pinion of said rack and pinion mechanism. 15. A system as claimed in claim 11 wherein the combination of the dual guide rail way system and the ball-screw mechanism of the Z axis assembly are located on the centerline of the Z axis assembly such that the vertical loads supported by the ball-screw mechanism act through the centerline of the Z axis assembly. 16. A system as claimed in claim 11 further including a power off-brake on means associated with said Z axis assembly to prevent back driving of the Z axis assembly during power off conditions. 17. The system as claimed in claim 10 further including a rotary index means for horizontally rotating said Y axis assembly about said X axis carriage at the end of travel on the guide means of said X axis assembly of said X axis carriage from a first position serving said first work area on one side of said X axis assembly to at least a second position on the opposite side to serve a second work area in response to said control means. 18. A system as claimed in claim 17 wherein said rotary index means provides for the selective positioning of said Y axis assembly means at points intermediate said first and second positions to service a third work area at the end of the guide means of said X asis assembly. 