The invention relates to an atomizer and method of operation for an atomizer having an application element for applying a spray of coating medium on a component to be coated and at least one integrated shroud air nozzle for delivering conditioned shroud air which at least partially surrounds the spray of the coating medium.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An atomizer for use in dispensing a spray of coating medium onto a component surface, the atomizer comprising; an application element positioned along a rotational axis for dispensing a spray of the coating medium in a direction away from the application element; a housing positioned adjacent the application element along the axis, the housing configured to enclose an atomizer motor configured to rotate the application element when the application element dispenses the spray; a shroud air nozzle integral with the housing positioned radially outward from the rotational axis, the shroud air nozzle adapted to dispense conditioned shroud air which at least partially surrounds the coating medium spray; a shroud air conditioner configured to condition shroud air upstream of the housing, wherein the conditioner includes at least one of a heater, a cooler, a humidifier, and a dehumidifier, and the conditioned air is at least one of heated, cooled, humidified, and dehumidified, respectively, with respect to the ambient air around the atomizer; and a control system in communication with the shroud air conditioner and configured to selectively activate the at least one of the heater, the cooler, the humidifier, and the dehumidifier, according to an operating condition associated with the application element when the application element is dispensing the spray wherein the control system is configured to detect the orientation angle if the component surface, wherein the control system is configured to condition the shroud air such that the shroud air includes at least one of a lower humidity content and a higher temperature when the component surface is substantially vertical compared with when the component surface is substantially horizontal. 2. The atomizer of claim 1 wherein the housing further comprises: an inner housing; and an outer housing positioned radially and concentrically outward from the inner housing defining a shroud air passageway between the inner and the outer housings in communication with the shroud air nozzle. 3. The atomizer of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of at least one of internal shaping air nozzles and external shaping air nozzles positioned radially outward from the axis and adapted to dispense a shaping air stream to form the coating medium spray. 4. The atomizer of claim 3 wherein the shroud air nozzle is positioned radially outward of the external shaping nozzles from the axis. 5. The atomizer of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of internal shaping air nozzles positioned radially outward from the axis and adapted to dispense a shaping air stream to form the coating medium spray; and a plurality of external shaping air nozzles positioned radially outward from the internal shaping air nozzles, the plurality of external shaping air nozzles including the shroud air nozzle. 6. The atomizer of claim 1 wherein the application element is a bell cup rotatable about the axis and having a bell cup edge. 7. The atomizer of claim 6 wherein the axial separation between the shroud air nozzle and the bell cup edge is between approximately 2 and 150 millimeters. 8. The atomizer of claim 6 wherein the at least one shroud air nozzle is positioned in an angled orientation in the circumferential direction about the axis and has a predetermined spin angle. 9. The atomizer of claim 8 wherein the predetermined spin angle of the shroud air nozzle is between approximately 0 degrees and 45 degrees. 10. The atomizer of claim 6 wherein the at least one shroud air nozzles are angled in either the rotational direction of the bell cup or in a direction away from the rotational direction of the bell cup. 11. The atomizer of claim 1 wherein the width of the shroud air nozzle is between approximately 1 and 15 millimeters in diameter. 12. The atomizer of claim 1 wherein the at least one shroud air nozzle comprises between approximately 5 and 100 nozzles. 13. The atomizer of claim 1 wherein the conditioned shroud air comprises at least one of: air, a gas other than air having a higher heating capacity than air, a gas other than air having a higher electrical insulating capability than air, and a gas other than air with a higher saturation limit than air. 14. The atomizer of claim 1 wherein the shroud air exiting the shroud air nozzle is between approximately 30 and 200 degrees Celcius. 15. The atomizer of claim 14 wherein the shroud air has a volumetric flow of between approximately 250 and 2500 liters per minute. 16. The atomizer of claim 1 further comprising a connecting flange for use in connecting the atomizer to a robot, the connecting flange having at least one receptacle for connection of a shroud air supply through the flange. 17. The atomizer of claim 1 further comprising a shroud air duct positioned at least partially inside the housing for supplying shroud air to the shroud air nozzle. 18. The atomizer of claim 1 wherein the housing has a smooth outer contour. 19. The atomizer of claim 1 further comprising a painting apparatus having a robot for holding and positioning the atomizer, at least one of a shroud air drier and a shroud air heater, and a controller for controlling the painting apparatus. 20. The atomizer of claim 1, wherein the operating condition is an operating angle of the application element, the operating angle of the application element associated with an angle of the component surface relative to the force of gravity. 21. The atomizer of claim 1, wherein the shroud air conditioner is structurally separate from the housing. 22. The atomizer of claim 1 wherein the application element is rotatable about the axis. 23. A rotary atomizer for use in dispensing a spray of coating medium onto a component surface, the rotary atomizer comprising: a rotary bell cup positioned along a rotational axis and having an edge for dispensing a spray of the coating medium in a direction away from the bell cup; a housing axially positioned from the bell cup along the axis, the housing having an inner housing and a smooth outer contoured outer housing positioned concentrically and radially outward from the inner housing from the axis defining a shroud air passageway, the housing configured to enclose an atomizer motor configured to rotate the rotary bell cup when the rotary bell cup dispenses the spray; a plurality of at least one of internal shaping air nozzles and external shaping air nozzles positioned in the housing adjacent the bell cup adapted to dispense shaping air to form the coating medium spray; a plurality of shroud air nozzles integral with the housing positioned radially outward from the axis, the shroud air nozzles adapted to dispense conditioned shroud air which at least partially surrounds the coating medium spray; a connecting flange for connecting the atomizer to a robotic device, the connecting flange having a plurality of connections through which the shaping air, the shroud air and the coating medium is supplied therethrough; a shroud air conditioner configured to condition shroud air upstream of the housing, wherein the conditioner includes at least one of a heater, a cooler, a humidifier, and a dehumidifier, and the conditioned air is at least one of heated, cooled, humidified, and dehumidified, respectively, with respect to the ambient air around the atomizer; and a control system in communication with the shroud air conditioner and configured to selectively activate the at least one of the heater, the cooler, the humidifier, and the dehumidifier, according to an operating condition associated with the application element when the application element is dispensing the spray wherein the control system is configured to detect the orientation angle if the component surface, wherein the control system is configured to condition the shroud air such that the shroud air includes at least one of a lower humidity content and a higher temperature when the component surface is substantially vertical compared with when the component surface is substantially horizontal. 24. The rotary atomizer of claim 23 further comprising: a controller for determining coating medium process parameters that affect the coating process and determining the conditioning of the shroud air based on the process parameters. 