Described is a robot having a proximity sensor which is based on the reentrant-loop magnetic effect. In one embodiment this sensor in a robot hand can detect the position and orientation of magnetized objects within about a 5 cm range, independently of the speed of approach.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising a robot hand having at least two moveable fingers for gripping a magnetized object, a reentrant-loop magnetic first sensor incorporated in one of said fingers and having a first magnetization direction so as to sense said object when it lies outside the region between said fingers, and a reentrant-loop magnetic second sensor incorporated in another of said fingers and having a second magnetization direction different from said first direction so as to sense said object when it lies within said region. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein said first and second magnetization directions are essentially perpendicular to one another. 3. The robot of claim 1 wherein said hand further includes a palm portion which connects said fingers to one another, and a reentrant-loop magnetic third sensor located in said palm portion. 4. The robot of claim 3 wherein said third sensor has a third magnetization direction which is essentially mutually perpendicular to said first and second directions. 5. The robot of claim 1 wherein said hand further includes a palm portion which connects said fingers to one another, a pair of third and fourth reentrant-loop magnetic sensors in said palm portion, said third and fourth sensors having co-planar magnetization directions oriented essentially perpendicular to one another, and a magnet having its direction of magnetization oriented at approximately 45.degree. to each of said co-planar directions. 6. The robot of claim 5 wherein said magnet is an electromagnet. 7. The robot of claim 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 wherein each of said reentrant-loop magnetic sensors includes a wire comprising reentrant-loop magnetic material, a coil wrapped around said wire, and means for generating a magnetic field in said wire so that, when said object is in the proximity thereof, electrical pulses are generated in said coil. 8. The robot of claim 7 wherein said generating means comprises a magnet located proximate said wire. 9. The robot of claim 7 wherein said generating means comprises means for causing a current to flow in said coil. 10. The robot of claim 7 further including an electronic processor responsive to said electrical pulses for controlling the position of said hand and said fingers. 11. A manufacturing method, which includes a process of handling a magnetized object, said process comprising the steps of: causing a moveable hand of a robot, which hand includes fingers having at least two reentrant-loop magnetic sensors including a first sensor having a first magnetization direction so as to sense said object when it lies outside the region between said fingers and a second sensor having a second magnetization direction different from said first direction so as to sense said object when it lies within said region, to move to the vicinity of the object and thereby generate electrical signals from the sensors which correspond to the range or orientation of the object, and controlling the moveable hand in response to the signals so as to grip the object. 