A system for a clinical lab that is capable of automatically processing, including sorting, of multiple specimen containers. The system comprises a central controller, a workstation, one or more analyzers, and an automated centrifuge. The workstation has automatic detectors for detecting the presence of a holder holding specimen containers. The workstation has a bar code reader for reading bar codes on the containers. The system has a transport subsystem, preferably a workstation robotic arm and an analyzer robotic arm for transporting the specimen containers, moving them to and from the workstation, to and from the analyzers, and to and from the centrifuge. The centrifuge is loaded with buckets containing specimen containers. The workstation can be provided with a balance system for balancing the weight of the buckets used. The workstation can also have a decapper for automatically removing caps from the specimen containers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for automatically preparing multiple containers containing specimens, comprising: (a) two or more receptacles, each receptacle configured to receive two or more containers; (b) a centrifuge configured to receive the two or more receptacles, the centrifuge having a motor adapted to rotate the two or more receptacles in the centrifuge to a particular position for automated removal of the two or more receptacles from the centrifuge; (c) a scale to weigh the two or more receptacles; (d) a transporter configured to deposit one or more containers or one or more dummy loads in at least one of the two or more receptacles; and (e) a balance controller in communication with the scale to receive and process weight data of at least one of the two or more receptacles, the balance controller programmed to direct the transporter to deposit the one or more containers or the one or more dummy loads in at least one of the two or more receptacles in response to weights measured by the scale to adjust the weight of the at least one of the two or more receptacles. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the transporter is operative to place the two or more containers into the two or more receptacles in a particular pattern. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the transporter is operative to transport the two or more receptacles from the scale to the centrifuge. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the transporter is configured to deposit the dummy loads into at least one of the two or more receptacles. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the balance controller is programmed to send a signal to the transporter to command the addition of the dummy load to at least one of the two or more receptacles when the difference in weight between two of the two or more receptacles is greater than a preselected value. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the balance controller is programmed to send a signal to the transporter to command the addition of the dummy load to at least one of the two or more receptacles in response to weight data received from the scale. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the balance controller is programmed to send a signal to the transporter to command the adjustment of the weight of at least one of the two or more receptacles when the difference in weight between two of the two or more receptacles is greater than a preselected value. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the balance controller is programmed to send a signal to the transporter to command no adjustment of the weight of at least one of the two or more receptacles when the difference in weight between two of the two or more receptacles is less than a preselected value. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein the balance controller is programmed to maintain a database of container locations and associated weights. 