In a computer having a large number of single-instruction multiple data (SIMD) processors, each of the SIMD processors has two sets of three individual processor elements controlled by a master control unit and interconnected among a plurality of register file units where data is stored. The register files input and output data in synchronism with a minor cycle clock under control of two slave control units controlling the register file units connected to respective ones of the two sets of processor elements. Depending upon which ones of the register file units are enabled to store or transmit data during a particular minor clock cycle, the processor elements within an SIMD processor are connected in rings or in pipeline arrays, and may exchange data with the internal bus or with neighboring SIMD processors through interface units controlled by respective ones of the two slave control units.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A reconfigurable multi-processor computer, comprising: (I) a host computer; (II) a system bus connected to said host computer; (III) a plurality of single-instruction-multiple data (SIMD) processor cells connected to said system bus, each of said SIMD processor cells comprising: (A) a left processing ensemble and a right processing ensemble, each of said left and right processing ensembles comprising: (1) a plurality of n individual processors, each of said processors having plural operand inputs and a result output and being adapted to perform an operation upon plural operands received at said operand inputs to produce a result at said result output in accordance with an instruction received by said processor, (2) primary register file means having plural primary register file inputs and outputs, respective plural ones of said primary register file outputs connected to the first and second operand inputs of each of said individual processors for controlling data flow from primary register file inputs to said operand inputs, (3) input means for coupling one of said primary register file inputs to one of: (a) an adjacent one of said SIMD processor cells and (b) said system bus, (4) output means for coupling another one of said primary register file outputs to one of: (a) an adjacent one of said SIMD processor cells and (b) said System bus, (5) secondary register file means having plural secondary register file inputs connected to respective ones of said result outputs and a pair of secondary register file outputs connected to a primary register file input in a respective one of said left and right processing ensembles, (6) slave controller means for controlling connections between inputs and outputs in each one of said primary and secondary register file means; (B) multiplexer means having left and right multiplexer inputs and left and right multiplexer outputs, said left and right multiplexer inputs being connected to result outputs of an inboard and an outboard one the individual processors of said left and right processing ensembles, respectively, said left and right multiplexer outputs being connected to an operand input of an outboard and an inboard one of said individual processors of said left and right processing ensembles, respectively; and (C) master controller means for controlling each slave controller means, transmitting individual instructions to each of said individual processor means specifying an operation to be performed thereby with respect to plural operand inputs thereof and controlling connections between said multiplexer inputs and outputs. 2. The multiprocessor computer of claim 1 wherein said slave controller means further controls said input and output means for coupling. 3. The multiprocessor computer of claim 1 wherein said master controller means operates in synchronism with a major clock cycle comprising plural minor clock cycles and said slave controller unit operates in synchronism with said minor clock cycles. 4. The multiprocessor computer of claim 1 further comprising plural latch means connected between each primary register file output and a corresponding one of said operand inputs, each of said latch means being characterized by a delay corresponding to one minor clock cycle. 5. The multiprocessor computer of claim 1 wherein said input and output means for coupling couple said one primary register file input and output to said bus through a host interface therewith. 6. The multiprocessor computer of claim 1 wherein said input and output means for coupling couple said one primary register file input and output to an adjacent one of said SIMD processor cells, wherein said input and output means for coupling together comprise: a left/right interface unit having an internal input and output and an external input and output, said external input and output being connected to an adjacent one of said SIMD processor cells; means for connecting one of said primary register file outputs to said internal input of said left/right interface unit; interface register file means shared in common by said left and right processor ensembles and having interface inputs and outputs; means for connecting one of said interface inputs to said internal output of said interface unit and for connecting one of said interface outputs to said internal input of said interface unit. 7. The multiprocessor computer of claim 6 wherein said interface register file unit comprises connections between said interface inputs and outputs, and wherein said slave controller unit comprises means for controlling said connections. 8. The multiprocessor computer of claim 6 wherein said input means for coupling couples said primary register file output associated with an outboard one of said processors to said left/right interface unit. 9. The multiprocessor computer of claim 1 wherein said primary and secondary register file means are controlled by said slave controller means to connect said plural individual processors within each processing ensemble in a ring to form a pair rings corresponding to said left and right processing ensembles respectively. 10. The multiprocessor computer of claim 1 wherein said primary and secondary register file means and said multiplexer connect the plural individual processors of both of said left and right processing ensembles in a single ring. 11. The multiprocessor computer of claim 1 wherein said primary and secondary register file units, said input and output means for coupling and said multiplexer means connect the plural individual processors of both the right and left processing ensembles of all of said plural SIMD processor cells in a single pipeline. 12. The multiprocessor computer of claim 11 wherein said single pipeline is one of (a) mono-directional and (b) bi-directional. 13. The multiprocessor computer of claim 1 wherein said master controller is controlled by said host computer. 14. The multiprocessor computer of claim 13 wherein said host computer comprises means for re-configuring the connections provided by said primary and second register file means in synchronism with a master clock cycle. 15. The multiprocessor computer of claim 1 wherein said plurality of individual processors comprise three processors whereby said computer is particularly adapted to perform matrix and vector operations of cardinality three. 16. A reconfigurable multiprocessor computer, including a bus, comprising: a plurality of processor cells connected to said bus, each of said processor cells comprising: (A) a right processing ensemble comprising: (1) a plurality of n individual processors, each of said processors having plural operand inputs and a result output and being adapted to perform an operation upon plural operands received at said operand inputs to produce a result at said result output in accordance with an instruction received by said processor, (2) primary register file means having plural primary register file inputs and outputs, respective plural ones of said primary register file outputs connected to the first and second operand inputs of each of said individual processors for controlling data flow from primary register file inputs to said operand inputs, (3) input means for coupling one of said primary register file inputs to one of (a) an adjacent one of said processor cells and (b) said bus, (4) output means for coupling another one of said primary register file outputs to one of: (a) an adjacent one of said SIMD processor cells and (b) said bus, (5) secondary register file means having plural secondary register file inputs connected to respective ones of said result outputs and a pair of secondary register file outputs connected to a primary register file input in a respective one of said left and right processing ensembles, (6) slave controller means for controlling connections between inputs and outputs in each one of said primary and secondary register file means; and (B) master controller means for controlling said slave controller means and transmitting individual instructions to each of said individual processor means specifying an operation to be performed thereby with respect to plural operand inputs thereof. 17. The multiprocessor computer of claim 16 further comprising: a left processing ensemble structurally identical to said first processor ensemble, the slave controller means of said left processing ensemble being controlled by said master controller means; multiplexer means having left and right multiplexer inputs and left and right multiplexer outputs, said left and right multiplexer inputs being connected to result outputs of an inboard and an outboard one the individual processors of said left and right processing ensembles, respectively, said left and right multiplexer outputs being connected to an operand input of an outboard and an inboard one of said individual processors of said left and right processing ensembles, respectively; and (C) said master controller means controlling connections between said multiplexer inputs and outputs. 18. The multiprocessor computer of claim 16 wherein said slave controller means further controls said input and output means for coupling. 19. The multiprocessor computer of claim 16 wherein said master controller means operates in synchronism with a major clock cycle comprising plural minor clock cycles and said slave controller unit operates in synchronism with said minor clock cycles. 20. The multiprocessor computer of claim 19 further comprising plural latch means connected between each primary register file output and a corresponding one of said operand inputs, each of said latch means being characterized by a delay corresponding to one minor clock cycle. 21. The multiprocessor computer of claim 16 wherein said input and output means for coupling couple said one primary register file input and output to an adjacent one of said processor cells, wherein said input and output means for coupling together comprise: a left/right interface unit having an internal input and output and an external input and output, said external input and output being connected to an adjacent one of said SIMD processor cells; means for connecting one of said primary register file outputs to said internal input of said left/right interface unit; interface register file means having interface inputs and outputs; means for connecting one of said interface inputs to said internal output of said interface unit and for connecting one of said interface outputs to said internal input of said interface unit. 22. The multiprocessor computer of claim 21 wherein said interface register file unit comprises connections between said interface inputs and outputs, and wherein said slave controller unit comprises means for controlling said connections. 23. The multiprocessor computer of claim 16 wherein said primary and secondary register file means are controlled by said slave controller means to connect said plural individual processors within said processing ensemble in a ring. 