Disclosed is a container holding a partially conductive ionic fluid with a flexible tactile surface covering the fluid and sealing the container. Along the bottom of the container a series of parallel conductors are located with the farthest spaced apart conductors being connected to a voltage source. Measurements of changes in voltages between individual pairs of conductors will provide an indication of any localized deformation of the flexible tactile surface. Such a tactile sensor can be utilized in any device where an electrical output is desired which is indicative of the surface or surface characteristics of the object to be contacted.
Claims I claim: 1. An impedance tactile sensor for providing an electrical indication of contact with the sensor, said tactile sensor comprising: a volume of an at least partially conducting fluid; means for containing said partially conducting fluid, said means including a flexible tactile surface; means for applying a voltage across a measurement length of said fluid causing local voltage drops in said fluid; and means for measuring any changes in local voltage drop, said changes defined as the difference between any local voltage drop without contact with said surface and any local voltage drop during contact with said surface. 2. An impedance tactile sensor for providing an electrical indication of contact with the sensor, said tactile sensor comprising: a volume of an at least partially conducting fluid; means for containing said fluid, said means having a flexible tactile surface to be contacted, said fluid having a constant volume; means for supporting an array of at least three conductors spaced apart in a direction substantially parallel to said tactile surface, two of said at least three conductors being spaced furthest apart; means for applying a voltage across said two spaced furthest apart conductors, and means for measuring any change in voltage drop across local pairs of conductors, with and without contact with said sensor, said change being the result of indentation of said tactile surface, where the magnitude of a change associated with each local pair of conductors is indicative of an average change in local fluid thickness associated with each local pair of conductors and therefore a change in the position of said flexible tactile surface at said local pair of conductors. 3. An impedance tactile sensor according to claim 2, wherein said means for containing comprises: a two-dimensional surface; a boundary means on said two-dimensional surface defining the periphery of said two-dimensional surface; and an elastic film means, attached to said boundary means, comprising said tactile surface. 4. An impedance tactile sensor in accordance with claim 3, wherein said boundary means comprises a rectangular boundary on said two-dimensional surface. 5. An impedance tactile sensor in accordance with claim 4, wherein said two-dimensional surface and said boundary means are comprised of densified Al.sub.2 O.sub.3. 6. An impedance tactile sensor in accordance with claim 2, wherein said conductors are parallel to each other and are adjacent one another. 7. An impedance tactile sensor in accordance with claim 6, wherein said conductors comprise photolithographically defined strips of conductive material. 8. An impedance tactile sensor in accordance with claim 7, wherein said conductive material is gold. 9. An impedance tactile sensor in accordance with claim 2, wherein said measuring means measures the change in voltage drop across adjacent pairs of conductors. 10. An impedance tactile sensor in accordance with claim 2, wherein said at least partially conducting fluid comprises ethylene glycol. 11. An impedance tactile sensor for providing an electrical indication of contact with the sensor, said tactile sensor comprising: a volume of ethylene glycol; a means for containing said ethylene glycol comprising a substrate and rectangular boundary of densified Al.sub.2 O.sub.3 with a flexible tactile surface said substrate, rectangular boundary and said tactile surface comprising a constant volume; a plurality of conductors photolithographically defined on said two-dimensional surface having two conductors which are spaced furthest apart; means for applying a voltage across said two spaced furthest apart conductors; and means for measuring any change in voltage drop across adjacent pairs of conductors with and without contact of said flexible tactile surface, where the magnitude of any voltage change across a local pair of conductors is indicative of the average change in local fluid thickness and therefore change in position of said flexible tactile surface. 12. A method of locating and characterizing contact with a flexible surface, including the steps of: providing a means for containing an at least partially conductive fluid with the containing means having at least a flexible tactile surface; means for applying a voltage across a measurement length of said fluid causing local voltage drops; means for measuring any changes in local voltage drops where said change is defined as the difference between any local voltage drop without contact with said tactile surface and any local voltage drop during contact with said tactile surface; measuring voltage drops with and without contact of said flexible tactile surface, for each pair of conductors; computing the local change in height of said tactile surface above a substrate for each pair of conductors in accordance with: ##EQU7## where n is the local pair of conductors being measured, .DELTA.V.sup.n is the change in local voltage drop associated with the nth pair of conductors, d is the spacing between the adjacent nth pair of conductors in a measurement direction, L is the distance between the spaced furthest apart conductors in said measurement direction, H is the local height of fluid above said substrate, .delta.H is the local change in height of the fluid at the nth pair of conductors, and V is the voltage applied to the spaced furthest apart conductors. 13. A method of locating and characterizing contact with a flexible surface, including the steps of: providing a means for containing an at least partially conductive fluid with said containing means having at least a flexible tactile surface; applying a voltage across a measurement length of said fluid causing local voltage drops; measuring any changes in local voltage drops where said change is defined as the difference between any local voltage drop without contact with said tactile surface and any local voltage drop during contact with said tactile surface, said any difference between said measured voltage drops without contact of said flexible tactile surface comprising an output indicative of contact with said tactile surface. 14. A method according to claim 13, wherein said providing step includes supporting an array of at least three conductors spaced apart in a direction substantially parallel to the tactile surface, two of said at least three conductors being spaced farthest apart, said applying step comprising applying a voltage across said two spaced farthest apart conductors, said measuring step comprising measuring voltage drops across local pairs of conductors wherein the magnitude of any change in voltage associated with the local pair of conductors is indicative of an average change in local fluid thickness and therefore indicative of a deflection of the flexible tactile surface at said local pair of conductors. 