Two or more telemanipulated surgical instruments are inserted through a guide tube. Each instrument has a transmission mechanism that transmits actuating forces from actuators to components of the instrument. The transmission mechanisms are arranged around an extended centerline of the guide tube and are wedge-shaped so that they can be positioned more closely to the extended centerline.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a guide tube; a first instrument comprising a first elongate body, a second body coupled to the first elongate body at a first joint, a first transmission mechanism at a proximal end of the first elongate body, a first actuator assembly on which the first transmission mechanism is mounted, a first end effector coupled to the second body, and a first joint actuation filar coupled between the first transmission mechanism and the second body, wherein motion of the first joint actuation filar changes an orientation of the end effector; and wherein the first transmission mechanism comprises a wedge shape; and a second instrument comprising a second elongate body and a second transmission mechanism at a proximal end of the second elongate body, wherein the second transmission mechanism is coupled to move a component at a distal end of the second instrument, and wherein the second transmission mechanism comprises a wedge shape; wherein the wedge shape of the first transmission mechanism and the wedge shape of the second transmission mechanism each comprise a vertex edge; wherein the vertex edges of the wedge shapes of the first and the second transmission mechanisms are oriented along and adjacent an extended centerline of the guide tube; and wherein the first and the second elongate bodies extend through the guide tube. 2. The apparatus of claim 1: wherein the first elongate body is substantially rigid and is resiliently bent between the first transmission mechanism and a proximal end of the guide tube. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a third transmission mechanism positioned near or at a proximal end of the guide tube; wherein the third transmission mechanism is coupled to move a guide tube component; and wherein the first elongate body extends through the third transmission mechanism. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a third transmission mechanism positioned near or at a proximal end of the guide tube; wherein the third transmission mechanism is coupled to move a guide tube component; and wherein the first and the second elongate bodies extend through the third transmission mechanism. 5. The apparatus of claim 1: wherein the first transmission mechanism being coupled to the first elongate body to roll the first elongate body in the guide tube. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a first actuator mechanism of the first actuator assembly; a second actuator mechanism on which the second transmission mechanism is mounted; wherein the first actuator mechanism translates the first instrument through the guide tube; and wherein the second actuator mechanism translates the second instrument through the guide tube independently of the translation of the first instrument. 7. The apparatus of claim 1: wherein the first transmission mechanism comprises a mechanical interface for an actuator mechanism; and wherein the mechanical interface is positioned on a side of the first transmission mechanism proximal to the guide tube. 8. The apparatus of claim 1: wherein the first transmission mechanism comprises a mechanical interface for an actuator mechanism; and wherein the mechanical interface is positioned on a side of the first transmission mechanism distal to an extended centerline of the guide tube. 