The present invention discloses a system and method for monitoring and diagnosing a robot mechanism. This requires adding intelligence to the diagnostics by parameters of physical robot arm linkages respecting component relative rotation or load transfer; storing rotation or translation relationship parameters characteristic of resonant frequencies between at least one mechanical link; receiving servo motor signals; digitizing and storing servo known normal data time histories; performing a time domain to frequency domain transformation on signal to identify components which are out-of band limit pre-sets.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for monitoring and diagnosing a robot mechanism comprising the steps of: storing known power drawing robot arm link characteristic pulley or gear ratios for connected mechanical arm links, to comprise a known set of initial robot arm time and position datum; mapping the gear ratio to corresponding resonant frequencies of the mechanical link and associated servo; digitizing and storing servo datum initial data time histories and out-of-limit frequency bands which when exceeded trigger signal perturbation origination identification of mapped gear ratio resonances; performing a time-frequency domain transform on signal to obtain normal base signal frequency content; continuously monitoring servo signal for raised pre-set action triggers comprising: receiving and digitizing known servo signals containing frequency content, comparing signal frequency content from a time-frequency domain transform on monitored signal, matching out-of-limit amplitude frequency content to any stored physical component resonant frequencies from gear ratio mappings, and raising any found matches as identified out of band acting component(s), whereby mechanical components having resonant frequencies based on power transmission characteristics in the robot components affecting current, voltage, position or torque signal are used for processing signal from matching resonant frequencies to identify link location of mechanical load deviances. 2. The monitoring and diagnosing method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: setting limit-band limits on base signal time history signal data or frequency content, finding out-of-band limit amplitudes or frequencies from comparing stored pre-sets of base signal data, and raising any found matches in real-time. 3. The monitoring and diagnosing method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: receiving at least two servo encoder's position feedback signals into an exclusive OR logic circuit, obtaining the logic circuit output voltage across a grounded capacitor with charge/discharge characteristic responsive time sufficient for smoothing output signal voltage, and monitoring capacitor output voltage which signals phase shift angles proximate to 0.degree. and 180.degree., whereby encoder signal phase pulses shifted proximate to 0.degree. and 180.degree. angles provide alarm signals allowing timely cessation of mechanical arm movement when the alternate position mechanism is effectively non-functional. 4. The monitoring method as in claim 1 wherein the received servo motor signals are from the set of signals consisting of current, voltage, position and torque. 5. The monitoring method as in claim 1 wherein the out-of-limit levels are pre-set to trigger at levels of advisories, warnings and emergency stops. 6. A method for monitoring and diagnosing a robot mechanism comprising the steps of: receiving at least two servo encoder's position phase shift channel signals, inputting the phase shift signals through an exclusive OR logic circuit, obtaining the logic circuit output voltage across a grounded capacitor with charge/discharge characteristic responsive to the input signal phase pulse train, and monitoring capacitor output voltage which signals phase shift angles proximate to 0.degree. and 180.degree., whereby encoder signal phase pulses shifted to near 0.degree. and 180.degree. phase shift angles will provide alarm signals allowing responsive cessation of mechanical arm movement. 