A transport system for use in a hospital. When patients visit the hospital, data items representing their ID numbers and the ID codes of their doctors are input to a minicomputer. In accordance with these data items, the covers containing the patients' medical cards are automatically withdrawn from three card storages installed in the hospital, in groups each consisting of cards which are to be transported to the same destination. The covers of each group are inserted into a case by way of the card-ejecting device provided for each card storage. The case containing the covers, which are to be transported to the same destination, is automatically transported to the destination via a case transfer apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for transporting articles to stations having different addresses, respectively, comprising: storage means for storing a plurality of articles, each article containing specific identification and address information; selecting means for selecting address information and for retrieving said articles having the selected address information from said storage means; carrying means for carrying a group of articles having the same selected address to a station having an address designated by the selected address information, the number of articles included in said group being not more than a predetermined number; conveying means for conveying the articles retrieved from the selecting means and depositing the articles in the carrying means; and transport means for transporting said articles carried in said carrying means from said storage means to said stations and for transporting said articles carried in said carrying means from one station to another. 2. A system according to claim 1, wherein said storage means includes a plurality of racks in which the articles are arranged. 3. The system according to claim 1 wherein said carrying means includes a plurality of cases within which said predetermined number of articles are carried. 4. The system according to claim 1 wherein said transport means comprises a main transport path extending between a plurality of secondary transport paths, said secondary transport paths extending from said main transport path to each of said stations. 5. The system according to claim 1 wherein said transport means comprises relay means for stopping said articles temporarily and moving said articles towards said stations and storage means. 6. The system according to claim 1 further comprising signal-generating means for generating location-designating signals designating the location of said articles, and destination-designating signals designating a destination of said articles. 7. The system according to claim 6 further comprising control means for supplying said transport means with said location-designating signals and said destination-designating signals, and for controlling the transportation of said articles. 8. The system according to claim 1 wherein said articles are medical information cards. 9. A system for transporting articles to stations having different addresses, respectively, comprising: storage means for storing a plurality of articles, each article having particular identification and address information; means for retrieving a group of articles with the same particular identification or address information from said storage means; transport means for transporting said articles from said storage means to said stations and for transporting said articles from one station to another; assessing means for sequentially assessing the identification and address information of the articles to generate access signals, said access signals identifying and designating the location of said articles and the destination of said articles; selecting means for selecting address information and for retrieving said articles having the selected address information from said storage means; carrying means for carrying said group of articles having the same selected address to a station having an address designated by the address information, the number of articles included in said group being not more than a predetermined number; and conveying means for conveying the articles retrieved from the selecting means and depositing the articles in the carrying means. 10. A system according to claim 9, wherein said storage means includes a plurality of racks in which the articles are arranged. 11. The system according to claim 9 wherein said transport means comprises a main transport path extending between a plurality of secondary transport paths, said secondary transport paths extending from said main transport path to each of said stations. 12. A system for transporting articles to stations having different addresses, respectively, comprising: storage means for storing a plurality of articles, each article containing specific identification and address information, the storage means including a plurality of cabinets for holding the articles; selecting means for selecting address information and for retrieving the articles having the selected address information from the storage means, the selecting means comprising robotic means for retrieving the articles from the cabinets; carrying means for carrying a group of articles having the same selected address to a station having an address designated by the selected address information, the number of articles included in the group being not more than a predetermined number; conveying means for conveying the articles retrieved by the robotic means and depositing the articles in the carrying means; and transport means for transporting the articles carried in the carrying means from the storage means to the stations and for transporting the articles carried in the carrying means from one station to another. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein the plurality of cabinets extend parallel to each other and define passages therebetween. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the robotic means comprise a plurality of robots, one disposed in each of the passages between the cabinets. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein each of the robots include a body portion for moving along the length of the cabinets and a head portion for moving vertically along the height of the cabinets. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein the head portion of each of the robots includes a pair of arms for grasping and retrieving the articles one at a time. 17. The system of claim 13, wherein the conveying means includes a plurality of card ejecting devices disposed at an entrance of each of the passages for receiving the articles retrieved by the robotic means. 18. The system of claim 12, wherein the address information represents the location and position of the article in the cabinets. 19. A system for transporting articles to stations having different addresses, respectively, comprising: storage means for storing a plurality of articles, each article containing specific identification and address information, the storage means including a plurality of cabinets for holding the articles; selecting means for selecting address information and for retrieving the articles having the selected address information from the storage means, the selecting means comprising robotic means for retrieving the articles from the cabinets; carrying means for carrying a group of articles having the same selected address to a station having an address designated by the selected address information, the number of articles included in the group being not more than a predetermined number; conveying means for conveying the articles retrieved by the robotic means and depositing the articles in the carrying means, including a plurality of card ejecting devices in communication with the cabinets for receiving the articles retrieved by the robotic means; and transport means for transporting the articles carried in the carrying means from the storage means to the stations and for transporting the articles carried in the carrying means from one station to another. 