Provided are an optical vision chip (OVC) and an image recognition method using the OVC. The OVC includes: a first display displaying an object image; a second display displaying a standard model image; and an optical sensor optically or electrically coupling the object image and the standard model image respectively displayed on the first and second displays and outputting a difference between the object image and the standard model image as an electrical signal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An optical vision chip (OVC) comprising: a display device having a first sub pixel and a second sub pixel, the first sub pixel displaying an object image, the second sub pixel displaying a standard model image; and an optical sensor having a sensor pixel, the optical sensor optically coupling the object image and the standard model image respectively displayed on the first and second sub pixels and outputting a difference between the object image and the standard model image as an electrical signal, wherein the first and second sub pixel are disposed side by side to collectively form a pixel that has the same size as the sensor pixel, wherein the display device and the optical sensor are sequentially stacked, such that the sensor pixel is in contact with both a top surface of the first sub pixel and a top surface of the second sub pixel. 2. The OVC of claim 1, wherein the first sub pixel has the same size as the second sub pixel, and said sensor pixel exactly overlaps said pixel formed collectively by the first and second sub pixels. 3. The OVC of claim 1, wherein the first sub pixel has a first value of brightness, the second sub pixel has a second value of brightness, and a brightness of a light incident onto the sensor pixel is sum of the first value and the second value. 4. An optical vision chip (OVC) comprising: a first display displaying an object image and comprising a first pixel; a first optical sensor adhered to the first display and comprising a first sensor pixel, the first optical sensor outputting an electrical signal of the object image; a second display displaying a standard model image and comprising a second pixel; and a second optical sensor adhered to the second display and comprising a second sensor pixel, the second optical sensor outputting an electrical signal of the standard model image, wherein the electrical signal of the object image is coupled with the electrical signal of the standard model image, and a difference between the object image and the standard model image is outputted as a coupled electrical signal. 5. The OVC of claim 4, wherein the second display displays a standard model image having a complementary brightness magnitude to the object image. 6. The OVC of claim 4, wherein the first display, the first optical sensor, the second optical sensor, and the second display are sequentially stacked in this order. 7. An image recognition method comprising: displaying an object image on a first display of an OVC; displaying a standard model image on a second display of the OVC; optically coupling the object image to the standard model image; outputting a difference between the object image and the standard model image as an electrical signal; analyzing the electrical signal based on the difference to determine whether the difference is greater or less than a reference value; and if the difference is greater than the reference value, displaying a second standard model image on the second display and repeat the previous operations, and if the difference is less than the reference value, recognizing the object image as an object equal to the standard model image or as a new object, wherein the optical coupling between the object image and the standard model image is performed using the OVC which comprises a display device and an optical sensor, the display device having a first sub pixel and a second sub pixel, the optical sensor having a sensor pixel, the first sub pixel being the first display, the second sub pixel being the second display, and wherein the first and second sub pixel are disposed side by side to collectively form a pixel that has the same size as the sensor pixel, and the display device and the optical sensor are sequentially stacked, such that the sensor pixel is in contact with both a top surface of the first sub pixel and a top surface of the second sub pixel. 8. The image recognition method of claim 7, wherein the object image displayed on the first display is obtained using an external optical sensor, and the standard model image and the second standard model image are read from a memory of a computer. 9. The image recognition method of claim 7, wherein the standard model image is displayed as a complementary brightness magnitude to the object image. 10. An image recognition method using an OVC, the OVC comprising: a first display comprising a first pixel; a first optical sensor adhered to the first display device and comprising a first sensor pixel; a second display comprising a second pixel; and a second optical sensor adhered to the second display device and comprising a second sensor pixel, the method comprising: displaying an object image on the first display; displaying a standard model image on the second display; outputting an electrical signal of the object image by the first optical sensor; outputting an electrical signal of the standard model image by the second optical sensor; coupling the electrical signal of the object image and the electrical signal of the standard model image; outputting a difference between the object image and the standard model image as a coupled electrical signal; analyzing the coupled electrical signal based on the difference to determine whether the difference is greater or less than a reference value; and if the difference is greater than the reference value, displaying a second standard model image on the second display and repeat the previous operations, and if the difference is less than the reference value, recognizing the object image as an object equal to the standard model image or as a new object. 