A method for determining the displacement in six degrees of freedom of a rectangular planar surface with respect to a reference position includes providing a reference image having projections of a defined lighting pattern having at least six points on a reference rectangular planar surface in the reference position, the six points including first, second and third points on the reference surface, fourth and fifth points at the intersections of a first edge of the reference surface, and, respectively, first and second parallel lines in the plane of the reference surface and perpendicular to the first edge, and a sixth point at the intersection of a second edge of the reference surface and a third line in the plane of the reference surface and perpendicular to the second edge, the first edge being perpendicular to the second edge, and the first and second points being in known relationship with the first, second and third lines. The method further includes the step of obtaining a real image including the projection of the lighting pattern on the surface, and determining the displacement of the surface with respect to the reference position from the positions of the six points in the reference image and the real image.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining the displacement in six degrees of freedom of a rectangular planar surface with respect to a reference position, comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining a reference image comprising a projection of a defined lighting pattern comprising at least six points on a reference rectangular planar surface in the reference position, the six points comprising first, second and third points on the reference surface, fourth and fifth points at the intersections of a first edge of the reference surface and, respectively, first and second parallel lines in the plane of the reference surface and perpendicular to said first edge, and a sixth point at the intersection of a second edge of the reference surface and a third line in the plane of the reference surface and perpendicular to said second edge, the first edge being perpendicular to the second edge, said first and second points being in known positional relationship with said first, second and third lines; (b) obtaining a real image comprising the projection of said lighting pattern on the surface; and (c) determining the displacement of the surface with respect to the reference position from the positions of said six points in said reference image and said real image. 2. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said lighting pattern comprises at least two bars of predetermined thickness. 3. A method as recited in claim 2, wherein said lighting pattern is a cross-shaped lighting pattern, and said step of obtaining a real image comprises identifying the locations of edges of said cross-shaped lighting pattern in an image of the projection of said cross-shaped lighting pattern on the surface. 4. A method as recited in claim 3, wherein said step of obtaining a real image further comprises the step of identifying at least three internal corners of said image of the projection of said cross-shaped lighting pattern, said internal corners corresponding to said first, second and third points in said real image. 5. A method as recited in claim 3, wherein said step of obtaining a real image further comprises the step of identifying points of intersection of at least three edges of arms of said image of the projection of said cross-shaped lighting pattern and the edges of the surface, said points of intersection corresponding to said fourth, fifth and sixth points in said real image. 6. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said step of determining comprises determining the displacements of said first, second and third points along an optical axis to determine the plane of the surface. 7. A method as recited in claim 6, wherein said step of determining further comprises determining, based on said determined plane of the surface and the position of said sixth point in said real image, the three-dimensional location of one point on said second edge of said surface. 8. A method as recited in claim 6, wherein said step of determining further comprises determining based on the ratio of the distance between said first point and said fourth point, and the distance between said second point and said fifth point, said distances being identical in said reference image, the rotation of the surface about an optical axis. 9. A method as recited in claim 1, wherein said step of determining comprises comparing relative distances between selected pairs of said points in said real image to determine the absence or presence of rotational displacement of said surface. 10. An apparatus for determining the displacement in six degrees of freedom of a rectangular planar surface with respect to a reference position, comprising: (a) means for obtaining a reference image comprising a projection of a defined lighting pattern comprising at least six points on a reference rectangular planar surface in the reference position, the six points comprising first, second and third points on the reference surface, fourth and fifth points at the intersections of a first edge of the reference surface and, respectively, first and second parallel lines in the plane of the reference surface and perpendicular to said first edge, and a sixth point at the intersection of a second edge of the reference surface and a third line in the plane of the reference surface and perpendicular to said second edge, the first edge being perpendicular to the second edge, said first and second points being in known positional relationship with said first, second and third lines; (b) means for obtaining a real image comprising the projection of the lighting pattern on the surface; and (c) means for determining the displacement of the surface with respect to the reference position from the positions of said six points in said reference image and said real image. 11. An apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein said lighting pattern comprises at least two bars of predetermined thickness 12. A method as recited in claim 11, wherein said lighting pattern is a cross-shaped lighting pattern, and said real image obtaining means comprises means for identifying the locations of edges of said cross-shaped lighting pattern in an image of the projection of said cross-shaped lighting pattern on the surface. 13. An apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein said means for obtaining a real image further comprises means for identifying at least three internal corners of said image of the projection of said cross-shaped lighting pattern, said internal corners corresponding to said first, second and third points in said real image. 14. An apparatus as recited in claim 12, wherein said means for obtaining a real image further comprises means for identifying points of intersection of at least three edges of arms of said image of said projection of said cross-shaped lighting pattern and the edges of the surface, said points of intersection corresponding to said fourth, fifth and sixth points in said real image. 15. An apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein said determining means comprises means for determining the displacements of said, first, second and third points along an optical axis to determine the plane of the surface. 16. An apparatus as recited in claim 15, wherein said determining means further comprises means for determining, based on said determined plane of the surface and the position of said sixth point in said real image, the three-dimensional location of one point on said second edge of said surface. 17. An apparatus as recited in claim 15, wherein said determining means further comprises means for determining, based on the ratio of the distance between said first point and said fourth point, and the distance between said second point and said fifth point, said distance being identical in said reference image, the rotation of the surface about an optical axis. 18. An apparatus as recited in claim 10, wherein said determining means comprises means for comparing relative distances between selected pairs of said points and said real image to determine the absence or presence of rotational displacement of said surface. 19. In a system for automated placement of rectangular objects in a stack, comprising a camera for acquiring an image of the placed object for verification of placement accuracy, the improvement comprising: means, comprising a strobe light, for illuminating at least a portion of the object with a predefined two-dimensional pattern substantially instantaneously at a strobe light intensity substantially greater than the intensity of ambient illumination. 20. The improvement of claim 19, wherein said strobe light intensity is at least about 2000 candles per square foot. 21. The improvement of claim 19, wherein said predefined pattern is a cross-shaped pattern having two arms of selected width. 22. In a method for automated placement of rectangular objects in a stack, comprising the steps of acquiring, by use of a camera, an image of the placed object for verification of placement accuracy, the improvement comprising: the step of illuminating, by use of a strobe light, at least a portion of the object with a predefined two-dimensional pattern substantially instantaneously at a strobe light intensity substantially greater than the intensity of ambient illumination. 23. The improvement of claim 22, wherein said step of illuminating comprises illuminating at a strobe light intensity of at least approximately 2000 candles per square foot. 24. The improvement of claim 22, where said predefined pattern is a cross-shaped pattern having two arms of selected width. 