A robot-friendly coupling device for an Orbital Replacement Unit (ORU). The invention will provide a coupling that is detached and attached remotely by a robot. The design of the coupling must allow for slight misalignments, over torque protection, and precision placement. This is accomplished by using of a triangular interface having three components. A base plate assembly is located on an attachment surface, such as a satellite. The base plate assembly has a cup member, a slotted member, and a post member. The ORU that the robot attaches to the base plate assembly has an ORU plate assembly with two cone members and a post member which mate to the base plate assembly. As the two plates approach one another, one cone member of the ORU plate assembly only has to be placed accurately enough to fall into the cup member of the base plate assembly. The cup forces alignment until a second cone falls into a slotted member which provides final alignment. A single bolt is used to attach the two plates. Two deflecting plates are attached to the backs of the plates. When pressure is applied to the center of the deflecting plates, the force is distributed preventing the ORU & base plates from deflecting. This accounts for precision in the placement of the article.
Claims I claim: 1. A coupling device for joining two items comprising: a first rigid plate member having a first side and an opposite second side and having a first set of three kinematic mount members located on said first side of said first rigid plate member in a triangular position, and a first elastic plate member mounted on said second side of said first rigid plate member; a second rigid plate member also having a first side and an opposite second side and having a second set of three kinematic mount members located on said first side of said second rigid plate member in a triangular position, and a second elastic plate member mounted on said second side of said second rigid plate member; said first and second set of kinematic mount members providing gross and fine alignment of said first and second rigid plate members when said first and second set of kinematic mount members are brought into contact with each other; and means for compressing said first and second elastic plate members so as to transmit a compressive force upon said first and second set of kinematic mount members when they are in contact with each other. 2. The device of claim 1 wherein said first set of three kinematic mount members comprises one member having a slot, one member having a cup, and one member having a post and said second set of three kinematic mount members comprises one member having a post and two members having a cone. 3. The device of claim 2 whereby the contact of said kinematic mount members having a cup with one of said kinematic members having a cone provides the gross alignment of said first and second rigid plate members, the contact of said kinematic mount member having a slot with said kinematic member having a cone provides fine alignment of said first and second rigid plate members, and the contact of said kinematic members having a post provides stability of said first and second rigid plate members. 4. The device of claim 3 wherein said first and second elastic plate members are mounted to said rigid plate members with standoffs. 5. The device of claim 4 wherein said first and second elastic plate members are each a thin spring plate capable of a moderate degree of deformation. 6. The device of claim 5 wherein said means for compressing said first and second elastic plate members comprises a bolt and nut with a stop collar on said bolt to limit the compression of said elastic plate members. 7. The device of claim 5 wherein said means for compressing said first and second elastic plate members comprises a floating nut located on said first elastic plate member and a bolt with a stop on said bolt to limit the compression of said elastic plate members. 