An improved chain conveyor and pallet structure are disclosed in which the pallet contacts the middle link of the three-link chains typically employed in chain conveyors, and is supported upon the outer and inner links of the chain. The distance between the pallet contact members and the support surfaces is increased such that the pallet may be removed from the chain conveyor for repair or placement on a second conveyor. In another feature of the present invention, the pallet is supported on the center link on both its upper and lower run, allowing the use of heavier sturdier pallets. At least some of the rollers in the middle links are preferably of a greater diameter than the rollers on the inner or outer links reducing the stress between the link and the pallet, and increasing the lift of both members. The present invention also discloses a speed bar placed below the three link chain to engage and rotate the center link increasing the speed that the pallet is moved at, and providing for a localized increased speed for the pallet.
Claims We claim: 1. A chain conveyor comprising: (a) a first shaft rotating about a first axis; (b) a second shaft rotating about a second axis being parallel to said first axis and spaced from said first axis by a conveyor distances; (c) frame members mounting said first and second shafts and defining axial ends of said first and second shafts; (d) a pair of endless chains, each being received over said first shift on said first axis, and said second shaft on said second axis, such that said endless chains extend over said first axis, extend on an upper run along said conveyor distance, extend over and under said second axis, and extend on a lower run back along said conveyor distance; (e) each of said endless chains having three being spaced inwardly from each of said axial ends towards the other of said axial ends, a first link being defined as the link closest to each of said axial ends, a second link being defined as the next innermost link and the third link being defined as the innermost link; and (f) a pallet being mounted for movement on said endless chains, said pallet having a generally planer support surface and a pair of downwardly extending guide bars, each of said guide bars having an upper run contact member in frictional contact with said second link of one of said endless chains when said pallet is on an upper run, and a lower run contact member in frictional contact with said second link of one of said endless chains when said pallet is on a lower run, said upper run contact members on each of said guide bars being spaced from each other by a distance approximately equal to the axial distance between said second links of each of said pair of endless chains, said lower run contact members being spaced by the same distance. 2. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 1, wherein a pair of upper run frames support said pair of endless chains along an upper run, said pair of upper run frames having support surfaces below each of said first and third links. 3. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 2, wherein there is a clearance between the lower run contact member and the frame for supporting the upper run chain when said pallet is on said upper run, and a clearance between said upper run contact member and a frame for said lower run chain when said pallet is on the lower run. 4. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 3, wherein a robotic manipulator is placed along said conveyor distance, said robotic manipulator lifting said pallet vertically upwardly for a portion of said clearance, rotating said pallet, and replacing said pallet upon said conveyor. 5. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 4, wherein said robot rotates said pallet approximately 180.degree.. 6. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 2, wherein a speed bar is placed beneath the second link upon at least a first portion of the upper run, said speed bar lifting said endless chains off of said upper run supports, and frictionally engaging said second link, causing it to rotate, increasing the speed of said pallet for said first portion of said upper run where said speed bar has been disposed. 7. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 6, wherein said lower run contact member is less than the axial length of said second link, said lower run contact member riding on the innermost portion of said second link. 8. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 7, wherein sprockets which drive said endless chains are received in said second link, and are less than the axial length of said second link, said sprockets engaging the outer portion of said second link. 9. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 1, wherein at least some of the rollers in said second link are of a diameter greater than said first or third link. 10. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 1, wherein said lower run contact member is less than the axial length of said second link, said lower run contact member riding on the innermost portion of said second link. 11. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 10, wherein sprockets which drive said endless chains are received in said second link, and are less than the axial length of said second link, said sprockets engaging the outer portion of said second link. 12. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 11, wherein at least some of the rollers in said second link are of a diameter greater than said first or third link. 13. A chain conveyor as recited in claim 12, wherein a speed bar is placed beneath the second link upon at least a first portion of the upper run, said speed bar lifting said endless chains off of said upper run supports, and frictionally engaging said second link, causing it to rotate, increasing the speed of said pallet for said first portion of said upper run where said speed bar has been disposed. 