A fluid flow control for use with a process chamber. In the disclosed embodiment, the process chamber is for ion implantation of a workpiece such as a silicon wafer and the fluid flow control is to assure the flow rates are maintained at values which are efficient in evacuating and pressurizing the chamber do not dislodge particulate contaminants from the process chamber walls. In the disclosed design, wafers are inserted into the chamber by use of a loadlock which avoids the requirement that the process chamber be cyclicly pressurized and depressurized. A diffuser plate intercepts fluid flowing into and out of the process chamber.
Claims I claim: 1. A system for treating one or more generally circular wafers comprising: a) a chamber that defines a chamber interior having a wafer support onto which one or more wafers are moved prior to treatment; said chamber having cylindrical internal flow-defining surfaces that encircle an outer periphery of the wafer support; b) means for inserting wafers into the chamber and placing them on the wafer support prior to treatment and removing the wafers from the chamber after they have been treated; c) structure for venting fluid into the chamber through a first passageway and for evacuating the chamber by withdrawing fluid from the chamber through a second passageway; d) a controller for adjusting fluid flow entering or exiting the chamber via the first and the second passageways; and e) fluid flow distribution means mounted relative the wafer support within the chamber for providing radial fluid flow away from the cylindrical internal flow-defining surfaces to a region of the wafers during chamber venting and for providing radial fluid flow toward the cylindrical internal flow-defining surfaces from the region of the wafers during chamber evacuation to impede particle contamination of wafers within the chamber; f) said cylindrical internal flow-defining surfaces and the flow distribution means defining a flow region through the chamber for promoting laminar fluid flow within the chamber. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the chamber accepts wafers from a region at atmospheric pressure and delivers the silicon wafers to a region at a pressure less than atmospheric. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the fluid flow distribution means comprises a circular diffuser plate symmetrically located within the cylindrical internal flow-defining surfaces of the chamber and wherein the first and second passageways are concentric with respect to each other and open into the chamber at locations facing the circular diffuser plate to provide radial fluid flow into and out of the chamber when venting or evacuating the chamber. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said structure for venting fluid into the chamber comprises a third passageway for injecting a cleaning fluid into the chamber, said third passageway defined by a conduit passing through the circular diffuser plate to route cleaning fluid into direct contact with the wafer support. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the chamber's internal flow-defining surfaces, the position of the conduit passing through the diffuser plate and an outlet of the second passageway into the chamber promotes fluid flow in a circuitous route through the chamber to clean internal flow-defining surfaces of the chamber. 6. The system of claim 1 comprising a third passageway for injecting fluid into the chamber at a location beneath the fluid flow distribution means to provide fluid flow in a circuitous route through the chamber. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the wafer support comprises a cantilever mounted annulus having a central opening which allows fluid to contact top and bottom surfaces of wafers supported by the annulus. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the chamber is divided into a process chamber portion and a loadlock chamber portion and further comprising transfer means for moving wafers back and forth between the process and loadlock chamber portions. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein the controller comprises a programmable controller and the structure for allowing fluid to enter the chamber and for evacuating the chamber comprises first and second valves that are opened and closed by the programmable controller. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein the programmable controller simultaneously opens the first and second valves to route cleaning fluid through the chamber for a specified time period to conduct a cleaning cycle. 11. The system of claim 10 where the programmable controller performs multiple cleaning cycles to cleanse the chamber of accumulated particles. 12. The system of claim 9 additionally comprising a third valve that routes high-pressure fluid into the chamber and wherein the programmable controller also opens and closes said third valve. 13. An ion implantation system for sequentially treating workpieces comprising: a) an implantation chamber that defines a chamber interior into which the workpieces are moved for treatment, said chamber having an opening for inserting workpieces into the chamber prior to treatment and removing the workpieces from the chamber after they have been treated; b) a pressure chamber in fluid communication with the implantation chamber through the opening of the implantation chamber including a region bounded by a wall having a first opening for allowing a fluid to enter the pressure chamber through an inlet flow control passageway and a second opening concentric with the first opening for evacuating the pressure chamber by withdrawing fluid in the pressure chamber through an outlet flow control passageway; and c) a flow controller for controlling fluid flow entering or exiting the pressure chamber via the first and second flow control passageways to enable workpieces to be moved into and out of the pressure chamber at atmospheric pressure and moved into and removed from the implantation chamber at a pressure less than atmospheric pressure; said controller including means for performing a cleaning cycle to cleanse contaminants from said pressure chamber by simultaneously routing pressurized fluid into the pressure chamber through the inlet flow control passageway and out the outlet flow control passageway. 14. The ion implantation system of claim 13 wherein the wall having the first and second openings comprises a bell-shaped, movable wall that supports a diffuser plate to disrupt fluid flow as the fluid enters the pressure chamber through the first and second openings. 15. A method for moving silicon wafers through a loadlock chamber to an ion implantation chamber comprising the steps of: a) moving a generally circular wafer from a supply and placing the wafer on a wafer support; b) moving a movable chamber wall to enclose the wafer in an intermediate chamber; c) withdrawing fluid from the intermediate chamber through a first conduit in fluid communication with the intermediate chamber but spaced from the wafer by a diffuser plate attached to the movable chamber wall; d) monitoring pressure within the intermediate chamber and moving the wafer into a process chamber at a reduced pressure when sensed pressure within the intermediate chamber reaches the reduced pressure; e) processing the generally circular wafer; f) moving the wafer from the process chamber into the intermediate chamber; and g) increasing the pressure in the intermediate chamber by infusing fluid into the intermediate chamber through a second conduit concentric with the first conduit before removing the generally circular wafer from the intermediate chamber. 16. The method of claim 15 additionally comprising the step of periodically cleansing the intermediate chamber by simultaneously infusing fluid into the intermediate chamber through the second conduit and withdrawing the fluid from the chamber through the first conduit. 17. An ion implantation system for sequentially treating workpieces comprising: a) an implantation chamber that defines a chamber interior into which the workpieces are moved for treatment, said chamber having a workpiece opening for inserting workpieces into the chamber prior to treatment and removing the workpieces from the chamber after they have been treated; b) a pressure chamber in fluid communication with the implantation chamber through the opening of the implantation chamber including a workpiece support positioned within the pressure chamber at a region bounded by a wall having a first fluid opening for allowing a fluid to enter the pressure chamber through an inlet flow control passageway and a second fluid opening concentric with the first opening for evacuating the pressure chamber by withdrawing fluid in the pressure chamber through an outlet flow control passageway; c) a flow diffuser mounted to a wall of the pressure chamber between the workpiece support and the first and second fluid openings that defines a radial fluid flow path to a center region of the workpiece support; and d) a flow controller for controlling fluid flow entering or exiting the pressure chamber via the first and second flow control passageways to enable workpieces to be moved into and out of the pressure chamber at atmospheric pressure and moved into and removed from the implantation chamber at a pressure less than atmospheric pressure; said controller including means for performing a cleaning cycle to cleanse contaminants from said pressure chamber by simultaneously routing pressurized fluid into the pressure chamber through the inlet flow control passageway and out the outlet flow control passageway. 18. The ion implantation system of claim 17 additionally comprising a third passageway that engages the flow diffuser to direct fluid against the workpiece support under the control of the flow controller. 