Interactive, computer based orthodontist treatment planning, appliance design and appliance manufacturing is described. A scanner is described which acquires images of the dentition which are converted to three-dimensional frames of data. The data from the several frames are registered to each other to provide a complete three-dimensional virtual model of the dentition. Individual tooth objects are obtained from the virtual model. A computer-interactive software program provides for treatment planning, diagnosis and appliance from the virtual tooth models. A desired occlusion for the patient is obtained from the treatment planning software. The virtual model of the desired occlusion and the virtual model of the original dentition provide a base of information for custom manufacture of an orthodontic appliance. A variety of possible appliance and appliance manufacturing systems are contemplated, including customized archwires and customized devices for placement of off-the shelf brackets on the archwires, and removable orthodontic appliances.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of generating a 3-dimensional virtual model of a bite for a patient, comprising the steps of: obtaining individual virtual tooth models for teeth of a patient in upper jaw and in lower jaw; scanning surface of said teeth of said patient in a clenched condition thereby generating a series of frames of images of said scanned surface; and registering said frames using a frame-to-frame registration algorithm with said individual virtual tooth models; thereby generating said 3-dimensional virtual model of said bite for said patient. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said scanning is performed in-vivo. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said scanning is performed by a hand-held scanner. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said hand-held scanner is adapted for intra-oral scanning and comprises a light source, an electronic imaging device and a pattern source, said light source projecting a pattern onto said dentition, said electronic imaging device converting incident radiation into a two dimensional image of the pattern as reflected from said dentition. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said hand-held scanner further comprises a continuous illumination light source providing general illumination of the dentition during scanning. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said scanning is performed using a CAT scan. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said 3-dimensional virtual model is refined using a cumulative registration algorithm. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said 3-dimensional virtual model comprises two or more segments, and wherein said segments are registered using a segment registration algorithm. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein a clipping plane is utilized in order to view a cross-section of said 3-dimensional virtual model of said bite. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein viewing said cross-section enables inspecting contact points between said teeth in the upper jaw and in the lower jaw. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein a user can adjust said 3-dimensional virtual model of said bite. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein a user can move or rotate said teeth in the lower jaw relative to the upper jaw. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein a user can simulate a chewing motion of said teeth in the upper jaw and the lower jaw. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein during the simulation the lower jaw moves from side to side and up and down to simulate a chewing motion. 