A robotic device for remotely inspecting pressurizer heater wells is provided which has the advantages of quickly, precisely, and reliably acquiring data at reasonable cost while also reducing radiation exposure of an operator. The device comprises a prober assembly including a probe which enters a heater well, gathers data regarding the condition of the heater well and transmits a signal carrying that data; a mounting device for mounting the probe assembly at the opening of the heater well so that the probe can enter the heater well; a first motor mounted on the mounting device for providing movement of the probe assembly in an axial direction; and a second motor mounted on the mounting device for providing rotation of the probe assembly. This arrangement enables full inspection of the heater well to be carried out.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated robotic device which can be used in a horizontal or vertical position for providing inspection of pressurizer heater wells, said device comprising: a removable probe assembly, liftable from a mounting means, including probe means for entering a heater well, for gathering data regarding the condition of the heater well and transmitting a signal carrying said data; a mounting means for mounting said probe assembly at the opening of the heater well so that the probe means can enter the heater well, wherein said mounting means includes a hollow mounting shaft into which said probe assembly extends and a clamping sleeve for securing said shaft in place on the exterior of the heater well; a first motor subassembly mounted on said mounting means exterior to said mounting shaft for providing movement of said probe assembly in an axial direction; and a second motor subassembly mounted on said mounting means exterior to said mounting shaft for providing movement of said probe assembly in an axial direction; and a second motor subassembly mounted on said mounting means exterior to said mounting shaft for providing rotation of said probe assembly. 2. The robot recited in claim 1 wherein said hollow mounting shaft has a central opening therein into which said probe means extends and which permits electrical connection of said probe means to the exterior of said shaft and allows a fluid to enter the heater well. 3. The robotic device recited in claim 1 wherein said device includes a support sleeve which is mounted for axial movement on said mounting means and on which said probe assembly is mounted, and wherein said first motor subassembly comprises a first motor carriage secured to said support sleeve, a first motor supported by said carriage, a threaded drive screw driven by said motor and mounted on said a fixed portion of said mounting means such that rotation of said screw provides axial movement of said support sleeve and thus of said probe assembly, and at least one limit device attached to said threaded drive screw for limiting the axial movement of said probe assembly. 4. The robotic device recited in claim 3 wherein said second motor subassembly comprises a second motor carriage attached to said support sleeve, a second motor supported by said carriage, and a gear and pinion means driven by said second motor for imparting rotational motion to said probe assembly. 5. The robotic device recited in claim I wherein said device further comprises a support sleeve which is mounted for axial movement on said mounting means and on which said probe assembly is, mounted and wherein said second motor subassembly comprises a motor carriage attached to said support sleeve, a motor supported by said carriage, and a gear and pinion means driven by said motor for imparting rotation motion to said probe assembly. 6. The robotic device recited in claim 1 wherein said probe means comprises an ultrasonic probe. 7. The robotic device recited in claim 1 further comprising a reference means for initially orientating said robotic device to provide a reference. 8. The robotic device recited in claim 7 wherein said reference means comprises an indexing fork mounted on said mounting means and adapted to be connected at one end thereof to a further heater well so as to fix said probe means in a predetermined starting position with respect to the further heater well. 9. The robotic device recited in claim 1 further comprising encoder means connected to said probe means for encoding the data received from said probe means with positional information. 10. The robotic device recited in claim 9 wherein said encoder means comprises an encoder connected to a motor of said first motor subassembly for determining the axial displacement of said probe means within said heater well with respect to a starting position. 11. The robotic device recited in claim 10 wherein said encoder means further comprises an further encoder connected to a motor of said second motor subassembly for determining the rotational displacement of said probe means in said heater well with respect to a starting position. 12. The robotic device recited in claim 9 wherein said encoder means comprises an encoder connected to a motor of said second motor subassembly for determining the rotational displacement of said probe means in said heater well with respect to a starting position. 13. The robotic device recited in claim I further comprising volume reducing means for reducing the volume of fluid utilized in the inspection of the heater well. 14. The device recited in claim 13 wherein said volume reducing means comprises a base, a rod attached to said base, a plug attached to said rod, and frictional contacts on said plug for providing a watertight seal between an inner wall of the heater well and said plug. 15. The device recited in claim 13 wherein said volume reducing means comprises an expandable bladder attached to and surrounding said probe means wherein said bladder is expanded by filling with said fluid. 16. The robotic device recited claim 1 further comprising a control station for receiving said signals from said probe means and for controlling said first and second motor subassemblies. 