A robot system that includes a mobile robot and a portable control station that communicate through a cellular network. Utilizing a cellular network allows the control station to be a portable device such as a laptop computer or a personal digital assistant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot system, comprising: a mobile robot that has a mobile base and a head that moves a monitor and a camera that captures an image; and, a portable control station that is coupled to said mobile robot to receive and display said captured image, said portable control station includes a single input that allows a user to select one of a plurality of different modes, one of said modes allows a user to move said robot base through said single input and another mode allows the user to move said robot head through said single input. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said portable control station includes a laptop computer. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said portable control station includes a personal digital assistant. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said mobile robot includes a mobile platform and a camera head, said portable control station includes an input that can be used to control said mobile platform and said camera head with a single finger. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said mobile robot includes a microphone, a speaker and a monitor, said portable control station includes one or more graphical user interfaces with selectable inputs to vary parameters of said mobile robot. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein said portable control station includes a microphone, a speaker and a monitor, said portable control station includes one or more graphical user interfaces with selectable inputs to vary parameters of said mobile robot. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a base station that is coupled to said portable control station and wirelessly coupled to said mobile robot. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said portable control station includes a cellular transceiver card. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein said portable control station includes a graphical user interface that allows a user to select one or more of a plurality of fields that are displayed by said portable control station. 10. A robot system, comprising: a cellular network; a mobile robot that is coupled to said cellular network and has a mobile base and a head that moves a monitor and a camera that captures an image; and, a portable control station that is coupled to said cellular network and said mobile robot to receive and display said captured image, said portable control station transmits a plurality of cellular signals through said cellular network that control movement of said mobile robot, said mobile robot, said portable control station includes a single input that allows a user to select one of a plurality of different modes, one of said modes allows a user to move said robot base through said single input and another mode allows the user to move said robot head through said single input. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said portable control station includes a laptop computer. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein said portable control station includes a personal digital assistant. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein said mobile robot includes a mobile platform and a camera head, said portable control station includes an input that can be used to control said mobile platform and said camera head with a single finger. 14. The system of claim 10, wherein said mobile robot includes a microphone, a speaker and a monitor, said portable control station includes one or more graphical user interfaces with selectable inputs to vary parameters of said mobile robot. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein said portable control station includes a microphone, a speaker and a monitor, said portable control station includes one or more graphical user interfaces with selectable inputs to vary parameters of said mobile robot. 16. The system of claim 10, further comprising a base station that is coupled to said portable control station and wirelessly coupled to said mobile robot. 17. The system of claim 10, wherein said portable control station includes a cellular transceiver card. 18. The system of claim 10, wherein said portable control station includes a graphical user interface that allows a user to select one or more of a plurality of fields that are displayed by said portable control station. 19. A method for operating a robot, comprising: transmitting a plurality of signals through a network from a portable control station to a mobile robot, the mobile robot has a mobile base and a head that moves a monitor and a head; moving the mobile robot in response to the signals; transmitting an image captured by the camera of the mobile robot to the portable control station through the cellular network; displaying the image at the portable control station; changing a mode through a single input to enter a base mode; inputting commands through the single input to move the robot base; changing the mode through the single input to enter a head mode; and, inputting commands through the single input to move the robot head. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the plurality of signals contain information in TCP/IP format. 