Mechanical and electromechanical components for rapidly constructing a user-definable apparatus may include components that are reconfigurable into other construction set components, and that have at least one demarcation defining adjacent segments thereof. The demarcations facilitate reconfiguration of the components to produce other construction set components. Openings to substantially prevent sharp edges from being formed during reconfiguration may be included in the components. An electromechanical drive assembly having an integrated speed control and operable to receive interchangeable, non-circular drive shafts may be provided. The electromechanical drive assembly may be configured to attach to and self-align relative to other construction set components. One or more of the components may be provided with openings through which the non-circular drive shafts may rotate. The drive shaft may be locked in relation to openings of components that allow the drive shaft to rotate via a lock plate. A bearing plate may also be included.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A construction set component comprising: at least a first indentation; a second indentation, the second indentation residing in substantially opposed relation to the first indentation to facilitate reconfiguration of said construction set component in relation to the first and second indentations, wherein the substantially opposed first and second indentations define a border between a plurality of segments to facilitate reconfiguration of the construction set component in relation to at least one segment; one or more openings in the construction set component, wherein the construction set component is configured to inhibit reconfiguration across an axis of the one or more openings, and wherein at least one of the openings has at least three axes of symmetry in a single plane and is configured to receive a fastener to couple the construction set component to at least one other construction set component to form a user-definable apparatus; and at least one opening disposed substantially between the opposed indentations. 2. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein said first and second indentations are operable to reduce resistance to bending of said construction set component substantially between said first and second indentations. 3. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein said first and second indentations facilitate in substantially preventing a sharp corner from being formed in response to the construction set component being separated substantially between said first and second indentations. 4. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein the construction set component is plastically deformable substantially without breaking. 5. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein the substantially opposed indentations are disposed on substantially opposed surfaces. 6. The construction set component according to claim 5, wherein the opposed surfaces are side surfaces of the construction set component. 7. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein the indentations are substantially the same shape. 8. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein the indentations are generally V-shaped. 9. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein the construction set component is substantially rectangular in shape. 10. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein the opposed indentations are located along a common plane. 11. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein said at least a first and second indentations define an edge of at least one segment. 12. The construction set component according to claim 11, further comprising an opening within the at least one segment. 13. The construction set component according to claim 1, further comprising at least one opening operable to receive and fixably engage a drive shaft to substantially prevent rotation of the drive shaft in relation to said at least one opening. 14. The construction set component according to claim 13, further comprising at least one other opening operable to receive the drive shaft and allow the drive shaft to rotate therein. 15. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein the first indentation and the second indentation are disposed on substantially opposed surfaces. 16. The construction set component according to claim 15, wherein the opposed surfaces are top and bottom surfaces of the construction set component. 17. The construction set component according to claim 15, wherein the opposed surfaces are side surfaces of the construction set component. 18. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein the substantially opposed first and second indentations are substantially the same shape. 19. The construction set component set according to claim 1, wherein the substantially opposed first and second indentations are generally V-shaped. 20. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein the construction set component is substantially rectangular in shape. 21. The construction set component according to claim 1, further comprising at least one opening disposed substantially between the substantially opposed first and second indentations. 22. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein the substantially opposed first and second indentations are located along a common plane. 23. The construction set of claim 22 wherein reconfiguration of the construction set component is facilitated about an axis approximately parallel to the common plane. 24. The construction set component according to claim 1, further comprising an opening within at least one segment. 25. The construction set component according to claim 1, wherein the user-definable apparatus is kinematic. 26. The construction set component according to claim 1, further comprising at least one opening operable to receive and fixably engage a drive shaft to substantially prevent rotation of the drive shaft in relation to said at least one opening. 27. The construction set component according to claim 26, further comprising at least one other opening operable to receive the drive shaft and allow the drive shaft to rotate therein. 28. The construction set of claim 1 wherein the construction set component having a width defined by a dimension between a first edge and a second edge, a length defined by a dimension between a first end and a second end, and a thickness defined by a dimension between a first side and a second side, wherein the thickness of the body is substantially less than the width and the length of the body, and wherein at least one of the openings is through the body from the first side to the second side. 29. A method for constructing a user-definable apparatus with a construction set component being reconfigurable into at least one other construction set component, said method comprising: reconfiguring a first construction set component between a first indentation and a second indentation disposed thereon, said second indentation residing in substantially opposed relation to the first indentation to facilitate reconfiguration of a first construction set component in relation to the first indentation and the second indentation, wherein the substantially opposed first and second indentations define a border between a plurality of segments to facilitate reconfiguration of the construction set component in relation to at least one segment; coupling the reconfigured first construction set component to a second construction set component such that at least a portion of the first construction set and at least a portion of the second construction component define intersecting planes; and wherein the construction set component is adapted to inhibit reconfiguration across one or more openings disposed in the construction set component. 30. The method according to claim 29, wherein said reconfiguring includes bending the construction set component substantially between the substantially opposed indentations. 31. The method according to claim 30, wherein the bending of the construction set component is performed substantially without breaking. 32. The method according to claim 29, wherein said reconfiguring includes separating the construction set component substantially between the substantially opposed indentations. 33. The method according to claim 32, wherein the separating produces substantially no sharp corners. 34. The method according to claim 29, wherein said reconfiguring includes utilizing a tool designed to alter the shape of the construction set component. 35. The method according to claim 29, further comprising constructing a kinematic structure with the reconfigured construction set component. 36. The method according to claim 29, further comprising constructing a robot with the reconfigured construction set component. 37. The method according to claim 29, wherein said reconfiguring includes bending the construction set component substantially between the substantially opposed first and second indentations. 38. The method according to claim 29, wherein said reconfiguring includes separating the construction set component substantially between the substantially opposed first and second indentations. 39. The method according to claim 38, wherein the separating produces substantially no sharp corners. 40. The method according to claim 29, wherein said reconfiguring includes utilizing a tool designed to alter the shape of the construction set component. 41. The method according to claim 29, further comprising constructing an electromechanical structure with the reconfigured construction set component. 42. The method according to claim 29, further comprising constructing a robot with the reconfigured construction set component. 43. The method of claim 29 wherein reconfiguration of the construction set component is facilitated about an axis approximately parallel to the common plane. 44. A construction set component comprising: at least a first means and a second means disposed in a first plane, the second means residing in substantially opposed relation to the first means to facilitate reconfiguration, about an axis approximately parallel to the first plane, of the construction set component in relation to the first and second means, wherein the substantially opposed first and second means define a border between a plurality of segments to facilitate reconfiguration of the construction set component in relation to at least one segment; one or more openings in the construction set component, wherein the construction set component is configured to inhibit reconfiguration across the one or more openings, and wherein at least one of the openings is configured to receive a fastener to couple the construction set component to at least one other construction set component to form a user-definable apparatus; and at least one opening disposed substantially between the first means and the second means. 45. The construction set component of claim 44 wherein reconfiguration of the construction set component is facilitated about an axis approximately parallel to the first plane. 46. The construction set component of claim 44 wherein at least one of the openings has at least three axes of symmetry in a single plane. 47. A construction set component for constructing a user-definable apparatus, and being reconfigurable into at least one other construction component, said construction set component comprising: a body having a width defined by a dimension between a first edge and a second edge, a length defined by a dimension between a first end and a second end, and a thickness defined by a dimension between a first side and a second side, wherein the thickness of the body is substantially less than the width and the length of the body; at least one opening, through the body from the first side to the second side, operable to enable coupling to another construction set component, wherein at least one of the openings is configured to receive a fastener to couple the construction set component to another construction set component, wherein the construction set component is composed of a material that is plastically deformable such that the adjacent segments of the reconfigured construction set component substantially maintain the reconfigured relationship; and at least one demarcation defining adjacent segments of the construction set component, said at least one demarcation operable to facilitate reconfiguration of the construction set component by reconfiguring a relationship between adjacent segments of the construction set component, and wherein said at least one demarcation is operable to substantially prevent a sharp corner from being formed by separation of the construction set component at said at least one demarcation; wherein the construction set component is configured to inhibit reconfiguration across the at least one opening; and wherein the user-definable apparatus is a kinematic structure. 48. The construction set component according to claim 47, wherein said at least one demarcation is an indentation. 49. The construction set component according to claim 47, wherein said at least one demarcation is generally V-shaped. 50. The construction set component according to claim 47, wherein the adjacent segments are substantially identical. 51. The construction set component according to claim 47, wherein at least one of the adjacent segments having an opening residing therein. 52. The construction set component according to claim 47, further comprising at least one second opening disposed substantially between two demarcations. 53. The construction set component according to claim 47, wherein said at least one demarcation is operable to reduce resistance to bending of the construction set component in relation to said at least one demarcation. 54. The construction set component according to claim 47, wherein the user-definable apparatus is a kinematic structure. 55. The construction set component according to claim 47, wherein the construction set component is plastically deformable substantially without breaking. 56. The construction set component according to claim 47, further comprising at least one opening operable to receive and fixably engage a drive shaft to substantially prevent rotation of the drive shaft in relation to said at least one opening. 57. The construction set component according to claim 56, further comprising at least one other opening operable to receive the drive shaft and allow the drive shaft to rotate therein. 58. The construction set component of claim 47 wherein at least one of the openings has at least three axes of symmetry in a single plane. 59. The construction set component of claim 47 wherein the construction set component having a width defined by a dimension between a first edge and a second edge, a length defined by a dimension between a first end and a second end, and a thickness defined by a dimension between a first side and a second side, wherein the thickness of the body is substantially less than the width and the length of the body, and wherein at least one of the openings is through the body from the first side to the second side. 60. A method for constructing a user-definable apparatus with a construction set component being reconfigurable into at least one other construction set component, said method comprising: reconfiguring the construction set component by deforming the construction set component between a first indentation and a second indentation disposed thereon, wherein the construction set component comprises a rigidity such that the deformation of the construction set component is maintained, wherein said second indentation residing in substantially opposed relation to the first indentation to facilitate reconfiguration of said construction set component in relation to the first indentation and the second indentation, and wherein the substantially opposed first and second indentations define a border between a plurality of segments to facilitate reconfiguration of the construction set component in relation to at least one segment; wherein the construction set component is adapted to inhibit reconfiguration across one or more openings disposed in the construction set component. 