A method for precision registration of X-ray images to cone-beam CT scan for image-guided radiosurgery includes acquiring 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images of a region of interest, acquiring a 2-D X-ray image of the region of interest at approximately a time of treatment, registering the 2-D X-ray image with a corresponding 2-D pre-treatment X-ray image to obtain a 2-D registration result at approximately the time of treatment, and converting the 2-D registration result into a 3-D tracking result to track the region of interest.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: acquiring two-dimensional (2-D) X-ray images of a region of interest at approximately a time of treatment, wherein the 2-D X-ray images comprise a first pair of projected images of the region of interest; and registering the 2-D X-ray images with corresponding 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images, comprising a second pair of projected images of the region of interest, to obtain a 2-D registration result at approximately the time of treatment. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising converting the 2-D registration result into a 3-D tracking result to track the region of interest at approximately the time of treatment. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images correspond to an expected range of 2-D X-ray images of the region of interest at approximately the time of treatment. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the expected range of 2-D X-ray images corresponds to an expected range of patient positions at approximately the time of treatment. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images comprise a first plurality of paired orthogonal projections of the region of interest and wherein the 2-D X-ray images comprise a second plurality of paired orthogonal projections of the region of interest at approximately the time of treatment. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein registering the 2-D X-ray images with the corresponding 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images at approximately the time of treatment comprises calculating an in-plane translation, an in-plane rotation and an out-of-plane rotation. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images comprise a subset of a cone-beam CT scan used for 3-D treatment planning. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising developing a 3-D treatment plan with a CAT scan. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images and the 2-D X-ray images correspond to different imaging geometries, further comprising scaling the 2-D X-ray images at approximately the time of treatment to correct for the different imaging geometries. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images to extract image features for registration with the 2-D X-ray images at approximately the time of treatment. 11. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium containing instructions that when executed on a data processing system causes the system to perform operations, comprising: acquiring two-dimensional (2-D) X-ray images of a region of interest at approximately a time of treatment, wherein the 2-D X-ray images comprise a first pair of projected images of the region of interest; and registering the 2-D X-ray images with corresponding 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images, comprising a second pair of projected images of the region of interest, to obtain a 2-D registration result at approximately the time of treatment. 12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, the operations further comprising converting the 2-D registration result into a 3-D tracking result to track the region of interest at approximately the time of treatment. 13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images correspond to an expected range of 2-D X-ray images of the region of interest at approximately the time of treatment. 14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the expected range of 2-D X-ray images corresponds to an expected range of patient positions at approximately the time of treatment. 15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images comprise a first plurality of paired orthogonal projections of the region of interest and wherein the 2-D X-ray images comprise a second plurality of paired orthogonal projections of the region of interest at approximately the time of treatment. 16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein registering the 2-D X-ray images with the corresponding 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images at approximately the time of treatment comprises calculating an in-plane translation, an in-plane rotation and an out-of-plane rotation. 17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images comprise a subset of a cone-beam CT scan used for 3-D treatment planning. 18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the plurality of 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images and the 2-D X-ray images correspond to different imaging geometries, the method further comprising scaling the 2-D X-ray image at approximately the time of treatment to correct for the different imaging geometries. 19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, the operations further comprising processing the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images to extract image features for registration with the 2-D X-ray images at approximately the time of treatment. 20. An apparatus, comprising: an imaging system to acquire 2-D X-ray images of a region of interest at approximately a time of treatment, wherein the 2-D X-ray images comprise a first pair of projected images of the region of interest; a processing device coupled with the imaging system to control the imaging system, to register the 2-D X-ray images with corresponding 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images, comprising a second pair of projected images of the region of interest, and obtain a 2-D registration result at approximately the time of treatment. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, the processing device to convert the 2-D registration result into a 3-D tracking result to track the region of interest at approximately the time of treatment. 22. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images correspond to an expected range of the 2-D X-ray images of the region of interest at approximately the time of treatment. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the expected range of the 2-D X-ray images corresponds to an expected range of patient positions at approximately the time of treatment. 24. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images comprise a first plurality of paired orthogonal projections of the region of interest, the imaging system configured to acquire the 2-D X-ray images as a second plurality of paired orthogonal projections of the region of interest at approximately the time of treatment. 25. The apparatus of claim 20, the processing device to register the 2-D X-ray images with the corresponding 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images at approximately the time of treatment by calculating an in-plane translation, an in-plane rotation and an out-of-plane rotation. 26. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images comprise a subset of a cone-beam CT scan used for 3-D treatment planning, the processing device to convert the 2-D registration result into a 3-D tracking result. 27. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images and the 2-D X-ray images correspond to different imaging geometries, further comprising a first image processor coupled with the imaging system and the processing device, to scale the 2-D X-ray images at approximately the time of treatment to correct for the different imaging geometries. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising a second image processor to process the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images to extract image features for registration with the 2-D X-ray images at approximately the time of treatment. 29. The apparatus of claim 20, further comprising: a treatment delivery system to deliver a treatment plan; and a controller coupled with the treatment delivery system, the imaging system and the processing device, the controller to coordinate the treatment delivery system with the 3-D tracking result. 30. An image-guided 3-D treatment delivery system, comprising: means for acquiring two-dimensional (2-D) X-ray images of a region of interest at approximately a time of treatment, wherein the 2-D X-ray images comprise a first pair of projected images of the region of interest; and means for registering the 2-D X-ray images with corresponding 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images, comprising a second pair of projected images of the region of interest, to obtain a 2-D registration result at approximately the time of treatment. 31. The image-guided treatment delivery system of claim 30, further comprising means for converting the 2-D registration result into a 3-D tracking result to track the region of interest at approximately the time of treatment. 32. The image-guided treatment delivery system of claim 30, further comprising means for developing a 3-D treatment plan with a CAT scan. 33. A method, comprising: receiving two-dimensional (2-D) pre-treatment X-ray images from a first imaging system that produces the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images directly without intermediate transformations, wherein the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images comprise a first pair of projected images of a region of interest; and receiving 2-D in-treatment X-ray images of a region of interest, acquired at approximately a time of treatment, from a second imaging system, wherein the 2-D in-treatment X-ray images comprise a second pair of projected images of the region of interest; and registering the 2-D in-treatment X-ray images with the corresponding 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images to obtain a 2-D registration result at approximately the time of treatment. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the first imaging system is a cone-beam computed tomography (CT) scanner, and wherein the cone-beam CT scanner produces the 2-D X-ray images by rotating one or more pairs of X-ray sources and detectors around a patient, and wherein the method further comprises: receiving a cone beam CT scan volume acquired by the cone-beam CT scanner; selecting the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images from the cone beam CT scan volume; pre-processing the 2-D pre-treatment X-ray images to extract pre-treatment X-ray image features; and processing the 2-D in-treatment X-ray images to extract in-treatment X-ray features. 35. The method of claim 34, further comprises scaling the 2-D in-treatment X-ray images to correct for different imaging geometries, if any, between the first imaging system and the second imaging system. 36. The method of claim 34, further comprises: performing a geometric transformation to convert the 2-D in-treatment X-ray images to a 3-D in-treatment volume; and tracking the 3-D in-treatment volume against the cone beam CT scan volume. 