A pulse detection laser is provided. The pulse detection laser includes a single frequency oscillator, a continuous pre-amplifier, and a pulsed amplifier. The single frequency oscillator generates a seed laser beam and is optically coupled to the continuous preamplifier. The continuous pre-amplifier amplifies the seed laser to produce an intermediate power laser beam. A pulsed amplifier optically coupled to the continuous pre-amplifier receives the intermediate power laser beam and amplifies the intermediate power laser beam to produce a pulse detection laser beam. One task of this pulse detection laser is to illuminate ultrasonic displacements. Light from the laser is scattered, collected, and analyzed with an interferometer to demodulate the ultrasonic displacements caused by the return echoes of the ultrasound at the surface of the part.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inspecting an article comprising: directing a generation laser beam to produce ultrasonic displacements in a surface of the article; generating a continuous seed laser beam with a master oscillator; directing the seed laser beam with the master oscillator through free space to a continuous pre-amplifier and amplifying the seed laser beam with the continuous pre-amplifier to produce a continuous intermediate power laser beam; directing the intermediate power laser beam through free space without filtering to a pulsed amplifier and amplifying the intermediate power laser beam with the pulsed amplifier to produce a pulsed detection laser beam, and directing the pulsed detection laser beam against the ultrasonic displacements, which scatters the pulsed detection laser beam; and optically collecting information about the scattered pulsed detection laser beam and processing the information to determine structural integrity of the article. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the continuous pre-amplifier comprises continuous wave diode bars. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the seed laser beam is generated using a diode pumped single frequency fiber laser and wherein the pulsed amplifier comprises diode pumped fiber amplifiers in parallel. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the intermediate power laser beam is a continuous wave. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein: the pulse rate of the detection laser beam ranges from about 50 microseconds to about 100 microseconds. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the continuous pre-amplifier comprises a continuous slab laser. 7. A laser ultrasound system, comprising: a generation laser that directs a pulsed generation laser beam to produce ultrasonic displacements in a surface of an article; a single frequency master oscillator for generating a continuous seed laser beam; a continuous pre-amplifier optically coupled to the single frequency master oscillator via free space for amplifying the seed laser beam to produce a continuous intermediate power laser beam; and a pulsed amplifier optically coupled to the continuous pre-amplifier via free space and without any intervening optical devices, the pulsed amplifier amplifying the intermediate power laser beam to produce a pulsed detection laser beam directed against the ultrasonic displacements in the surface of the article, which causes scattering of the pulsed detection laser beam; optics that collect information about the scattered pulsed detection laser beam; and a processor that receives the information from the optics to determine structural integrity of the article. 8. The pulsed detection laser of claim 7, wherein the continuous pre-amplifier comprises a slab laser pre-amplifier. 9. The pulsed detection laser of claim 7, wherein the pulsed amplifier comprises a diode pumped fiber pulsed laser. 10. The pulsed detection laser of claim 7, wherein the pulsed detection laser beam has a pulse period ranges from about 50 microseconds to about 100 microseconds. 11. The pulsed detection laser of claim 7, wherein the pulsed detection laser beam has energy that ranges from about 50 mJ to about 100 mJ. 12. The pulsed detection laser of claim 7, wherein the master oscillator comprises a single frequency oscillator. 13. The pulsed detection laser of claim 7, wherein the intermediate power laser beam has a power of about 5 W to about 10 W and the detection laser has a power of about 500 W to about 1000 W. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of generating the seed laser beam comprises using a master oscillator having components selected from the list consisting of Ytterbium doped fibers operable to produce radiation at a wavelength of about 1000 nm, Erbium doped or co-doped fibers operable to produce radiation at a wavelength of about 1550 nm, and fiber lasers having side cladding pumping wherein pumping diodes are coupled to active fiber through pumping fibers. 15. A composite inspection apparatus for measuring ultrasonic surface displacements on a surface of a remote target comprising: an ultrasound generation system operable to produce ultrasonic surface displacements in the remote target; a detection laser operable to illuminate ultrasonic surface displacements on the surface of the remote target with a pulsed detection laser beam, wherein the detection laser comprises: a single frequency master oscillator operable to generate a seed laser beam; a continuous pre-amplifier optically coupled via free space to the single frequency master oscillator, the continuous pre-amplifier operable to amplify the seed laser beam to produce a continuous intermediate power laser beam; and a pulsed amplifier optically coupled to the continuous pre-amplifier via free space without any intervening optical devices, the pulsed amplifier operable to amplify the intermediate power laser beam to produce the pulsed detection laser beam; a scanning assembly operable to create relative motion between an illumination spot of the pulsed detection laser beam and the surface of the remote target; collection optics for collecting phase modulated light from the pulsed detection laser beam either reflected scattered by the remote target; an optical processor to process the phase modulated light collected by the collection optics and produce an output signal; and a processor operable to process the output signal to obtain data representative of the ultrasonic surface displacements on the surface of the remote target. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the ratio of the power between the seed laser beam and the intermediate power laser beam is selected from the list consisting of about 200, 400, 2500, 4000, 5000, and 50,000. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the ratio of the power between the seed laser beam and the pulsed detection laser beam is selected from the list consisting of about 20,000, 40,000, 250,000, and 500,000. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the ratio of the power between the intermediate power laser beam and the pulsed detection laser beam is selected from the list consisting of about 10, 50, and 200. 