A microscale method for the characterization of one or more reaction variables that influence the formation or dissociation of an affinity complex comprising a ligand and a binder, which have mutual affinity for each other. The method is characterized in comprising the steps of: (i) providing a microfluidic device comprising a microchannel structures that are under a common flow control, each microchannel structure comprising a reaction microactivity; (ii) performing essentially in parallel an experiment in each of two or more of the plurality of microchannel structures, the experiment in these two or more microchannel structures comprising either a) formation of an immobilized form of the complex and retaining under flow conditions said form within the reaction microactivity, or b) dissociating, preferably under flow condition, an immobilized form of the complex which has been included in the microfluidic device provided in step (i), at least one reaction variable varies or is uncharacterized for said two or more microchannel structures while the remaining reaction variables are kept essentially constant; (iii) measuring the presentation of the complex in said reaction microactivity in said two or more microchannel structures; and (iv) characterizing said one or more reaction variables based on the values for presentation obtained in step (iii).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A microscale method for the determination of the amount of an analyte in one or more samples by the formation of an affinity complex comprising a ligand and a binder, which have affinity for each other, wherein said method comprises the steps of: (i) providing a disc-shaped microfluidic device comprising a plurality of microchannel structures that are under common flow control, each microchannel structure comprising a reaction microcavity in which there is a solid phase to which an affinity reactant which is capable of being incorporated into the affinity complex retained in step (ii) is immobilized, wherein the reaction microcavity has a volume smaller than an upstream metering microcavity; (ii) performing in parallel an experiment in each of two or more of the plurality of microchannel structures, the experiment utilizes a sample selected from said one or more samples and forming the complex in immobilized form during flow through the reaction microcavity and retaining said form during flow through the same reaction microcavity, the amount of the complex formed being a function of the amount of the analyte in the sample for each experiment, wherein said flow is created by providing a fluid volume from the upstream metering microcavity into and through the reaction microcavity, and wherein said fluid volume is lamer than the volume of the reaction microcavity; (iii) measuring the amount of the complex in said reaction microcavity in each of said two or more microchannel structures; and (iv) determining the amount of analyte in the sample for each of said two or more microchannel structures based on the measured amounts obtained in step (iii). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) the microfluidic device comprises a substrate having an axis of symmetry, (b) each microchannel structure is oriented relative the axis of symmetry with an inlet port at shorter radial distance than the reaction microcavity, and (c) the substrate is spun around its axis of symmetry to drive liquid within the microchannel structures. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein a) the microfluidic device comprises a substrate having an axis of symmetry, (b) each microchannel structure is oriented radially relative the axis of symmetry with the reaction microcavity at a larger radial distance than a substructure delivering liquid to the reaction microcavity, and (c) the substrate is spun around its axis of symmetry to drive liquid within the microchannel structures. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the microchannel structures comprises a flow restriction downstream of the reaction microcavity, which creates a pressure drop that restricts the flow through the reaction microcavity during the formation of the immobilized form of the complex. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said pressure drop in the flow restriction is large enough to level out interchannel variations in flow resistance that depend on inner surface characteristics upstream of the reaction microcavity and on the solid phase. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein said flow restriction is capable of giving an inter-channel variation in residence time for said one or more samples in said reaction microcavity in each of said two or more microchannel structures that is within a mean residence time of +90%. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the formation of the complex that is retained in the reaction microcavity is part of a competitive or inhibition protocol. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the formation of the complex that is retained in the reaction microcavity is part of a non-competitive protocol. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the formation of the complex that is retained in the reaction microcavity is part of a sandwich protocol. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein step (iv) comprises determining the presence or absence of the analyte. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the method is a method for screening in order to find binder-ligand combinations and wherein the binder is the analyte, the analyte having an unknown binding ability to the ligand, and wherein the binder differs between two or more of said two or more micro channel structures. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the affinity reactant immobilized on the solid phase is said binder. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the extent of complex formation in the reaction microcavity is used for determining the tendency of the analyte to form the affinity complex comprising the binder and the ligand. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the affinity reactant immobilized on the solid phase is said ligand. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein a) each microchannel structure comprises a unit for the separation of particulate matter placed upstream of the reaction microcavity, and b) step (ii) comprises separation of particulate matter from an aliquot introduced via an inlet port. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein a) said separation unit is combined with a volume defining unit or is upstream of the volume defining unit, and b) step (ii) comprises performing a volume metering step simultaneously with the separation step or performing the separation step upstream of the volume metering step, respectively. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said amount of said analyte is measured as binding activity towards an affinity counterpart. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the affinity reactant immobilized on the solid phase is said binder or said ligand. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein the flow provides a flow rate through the reaction microcavity during formation of said immobilized complex that gives a residence time<2 hours for the fluid volume used for the formation to pass through the solid phase. 20. The method according to claim 1, wherein the flow provides a flow rate through the reaction microcavity during formation of said immobilized complex within an interval of 0.01-100 nl/sec. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the affinity reactant immobilized on the solid phase is present in excess in the reaction microcavity. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the flow conditions comprising a flow rate that provides for the formation of said immobilized affinity complex has been selected to give non-diffusion-limited reaction for the formation of the immobilized complex. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the microchannel structures comprise a) an inlet port with a volume defining unit with a valve at its outlet, the volume defining unit and valve being upstream from the reaction microcavity. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the solid phase is a porous bed. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein inner surfaces of the microchannel structures are hydrophilic. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein 2 or more walls of the microchannel structures are hydrophilic. 