A laminin-modified polymeric hollow conduit is provided for promoting nerve regeneration across the gap between severed ends of a nerve. The conduit is manufactured by a method involving gas plasma treatment. Utilizing the laminin-modified conduit, functional recovery has been achieved in mammals with a severed spinal cord.
Claims I/we claim: 1. A method for promoting in vivo regeneration of a severed mammalian nerve so as to bridge a gap between severed ends of the nerve, the method comprising bringing the severed ends of the nerve into contact with respective ends of a hollow conduit, the conduit comprising a wall composed of a biodegradable polymeric material, a lumen defined by a lumenal surface of the wall, and laminin covalently bound to functional groups in the lumenal surface of the wall, wherein the functional groups are derived from the biodegradable polymeric material with a gas plasma treatment. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein: (a) the gas plasma treatment is conducted with gas plasma at a power density and a pressure for a time sufficient to activate the biodegradable polymeric material on the lumenal surface to form the functional groups for covalent bonding with laminin; and (b) the lumenal surface is contacted with laminin for a time sufficient to allow covalent bond formation between laminin and the functional groups. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the biodegradable polymeric material is selected from the group consisting of collagen, poly(lactic acid), poly(glycolic acid), poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid), polycaprolactone, poly(caprolactone-co-lactic acid), chitosan, alginate, hyaluronic acid, gelatin and fibrin. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the biodegradable polymeric material comprises poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid). 5. The method according to claim 3, wherein the biodegradable polymeric material comprises chitosan. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the gas plasma treatment comprises O.sub.2 or O.sub.2-containing gas plasma. 7. The method according to claim 2, wherein the gas plasma comprises O.sub.2 or O.sub.2-containing gas plasma. 8. The method according to claim 2, wherein the power density operating in (a) is about 2 to about 100 W/cm.sup.2. 9. The method according to claim 2, wherein the power density operating in (a) is about 50 W/cm.sup.2. 10. The method according to claim 2, wherein the pressure operating in (a) is about 0 to about 80 mTorr. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the pressure operating in (a) is about 36 mTorr. 12. The method according to claim 2, wherein the time of treatment in (a) is about 5 to 10 minutes. 13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the time of treating in (a) is about 5 minutes. 14. The method according to claim 2, wherein (b) comprises adding to the conduit a solution containing an appropriate concentration of laminin to provide direct contact between the activated functional groups in the lumenal surface and laminin. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the laminin solution has a laminin concentration of about 100 .mu.g/ml. 16. The method according to claim 14, wherein the conduit is incubated in the solution at about 4.degree. C. for about 3 hours. 