The invention provides highly sensitive and specific assays for the major citrus pathogens Xylella fastidiosa and Xanthomonas axonopodis, including a field deployable multiplexed assay capable of rapidly assaying for both pathogens simultaneously. The assays are directed at particular gene targets derived from pathogenic strains that specifically cause the major citrus diseases of citrus variegated chlorosis (Xylella fastidiosa 9a5c) and citrus canker (Xanthomonas axonopodis pv citri). The citrus pathogen assays of the invention offer femtomole sensitivity, excellent linear dynamic range, and rapid and specific detection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assay for detecting the presence of Xylella fastidiosa strain 9a5c in a citrus plant, an environmental sample or an insect, comprising: (a) extracting or releasing nucleic acid from a sample of the citrus plant, environmental sample or insect; (b) amplifying a XF0324 gene target nucleic acid using nucleic acid sequence based amplification (NASBA) with the amplification primers of SEQ ID NOS: 1 and 2, to generate a solution containing amplified single-stranded RNA amplification product complementary to the target nucleic acid, if present in the nucleic acid from the sample; and, (c) detecting the presence of the RNA amplification product using (i) a detectably-labeled detection oligonucleotide which comprises a sequence complementary to a first sequence of the RNA amplification product, and (ii) a capture oligonucleotide which comprises a sequence complementary to a second sequence of the RNA amplification product. 2. The assay according to claim 1, wherein the capture oligonucleotide comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3 or nucleotides 16-37 thereof. 3. The assay according to claim 1, wherein the detection oligonucleotide comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4 or nucleotides 1-20 thereof. 4. The assay according to claim 1, wherein the capture oligonucleotide comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3 and the detection oligonucleotide comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 4. 5. The assay according to claim 1, wherein the sample is selected from the group consisting of a foliar tissue sample, a flower tissue sample, a fruit tissue sample, a xylem tissue sample, a xylem fluid sample, an insect tissue sample and an insect fluid sample. 6. An assay for detecting the presence of Xanthomonas axonopodis pv, citri in a citrus plant, an environmental sample or an insect, comprising: (a) extracting or releasing nucleic acid from a sample of the citrus plant, environmental sample or insect; (b) amplifying a XAC1509 gene target nucleic acid using nucleic acid sequence based amplification (NASBA) with the amplification primers of SEQ ID NOS: 6 and 7, to generate a solution containing amplified single-stranded RNA amplification product complementary to the target nucleic acid, if present in the nucleic acid from the sample; and, (c) detecting the presence of the RNA amplification product using (i) a detectably-labeled detection oligonucleotide which comprises a sequence complementary to a first sequence of the RNA amplification product, and (ii) a capture oligonucleotide which comprises a sequence complementary to a second sequence of the RNA amplification product. 7. The assay according to claim 6, wherein the capture oligonucleotide comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8 or nucleotides 16-35 thereof. 8. The assay according to claim 6, wherein the detection oligonucleotide comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 9 or nucleotides 1-21 thereof. 9. The assay according to claim 6, wherein the capture oligonucleotide comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 8 or nucleotides 16-35 thereof, and the detection oligonucleotide comprises the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 9 or nucleotides 1-21 thereof. 10. The assay according to claim 6, wherein the sample is selected from the group consisting of a foliar tissue sample, a flower tissue sample, a fruit tissue sample, a canker sample, a canker-like lesion sample, a xylem tissue sample, a xylem fluid sample, an insect tissue sample and an insect fluid sample. 11. A multiplex assay for detecting the presence of a Citrus Variegated Chlorosis-associated strain of Xylella fastidiosa and/or a Citrus Canker-associated strain of Xanthomonas axonopodis in a citrus plant, an environmental sample or an insect, comprising: (a) extracting or releasing nucleic acid from a sample of the citrus plant, environmental sample or the insect; (b) amplifying XF0324 and XAC1509 gene target nucleic acids using nucleic acid sequence based amplification (NASBA) with the amplification primers of SEQ ID NOS: 1 and 2, and SEQ ID NOS: 6 and 7, respectively, to generate a solution containing amplified single-stranded RNA amplification product(s) complementary to the target nucleic acid(s), if present in the nucleic acid from the sample; (c) detecting the presence of the RNA amplification product(s) using, (i) a detectably-labeled detection oligonucleotide comprising SEQ ID NO: 4 to hybridize to a first sequence in an RNA amplification product corresponding to the XF0324 gene target, and a detectably-labeled detection oligonucleotide comprising SEQ ID NO: 9 to hybridize to a first sequence in an RNA amplification product corresponding to the XAC1509 gene target, and (ii) a capture oligonucleotide comprising SEQ ID NO: 3 to hybridize to a second sequence in an RNA amplification product corresponding to the XF0324 gene target, and a capture oligonucleotide comprising SEQ ID NO: 8 to hybridize to a second sequence in an RNA amplification product corresponding to the XAC1509 gene target. 12. The assay according to claim 11, wherein the tissue sample is selected from the group consisting of a foliar tissue sample, a flower tissue sample, a fruit tissue sample, a canker, a canker-like lesion, a xylem tissue sample, a xylem fluid sample, an insect tissue sample and an insect fluid sample. 13. A method of diagnosing citrus variegated chlorosis in a citrus plant, comprising detecting Xylella fastidiosa strain 9a5c using the assay according to claim 1, wherein the detection of Xylella fastidiosa strain 9a5c provides an indication of the presence of citrus verigated chlorosis in the citrus plant. 14. A method of diagnosing citrus canker in a citrus plant, comprising detecting Xanthomonas axonopodis pv citri using the assay according to claim 6, wherein the detection of Xylella fastidiosa strain 9a5c provides an indication of the presence of citrus canker in the citrus plant. 