A datacenter with automated robotic maintenance comprises: a plurality of computer systems disposed at different locations therein, each system including: a cabinet rack; and a plurality of system cell units disposed therein for operation of the corresponding computer system; a robotic vehicle operative to move to each of the cabinet racks of the plurality and to perform maintenance on the system cell units thereof; and a central management station operative to communicate with the plurality of computer systems to determine an occurrence of a maintenance event for a system cell unit at one of the computer systems, and operative to direct the robotic vehicle to move to the cabinet rack of the one computer system and to perform maintenance on the system cell unit in accordance with the maintenance event.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A datacenter with automated robotic maintenance, said datacenter comprising: a plurality of computer systems disposed at different locations therein, each system including: a cabinet rack; and a plurality of system cell units disposed therein for operation of the corresponding computer system; a robotic vehicle operative to move to each of the cabinet racks of said plurality and to perform maintenance on the system cell units thereof; and a central management station operative to communicate with said plurality of computer systems to determine an occurrence of a maintenance event for a system cell unit at one of the computer systems, and operative to direct said robotic vehicle to move to the cabinet rack of said one computer system and to perform maintenance on said system cell unit in accordance with said maintenance event. 2. The datacenter of claim 1 wherein each computer system operates as a computer server. 3. The datacenter of claim 1 wherein the central management station directs the robotic vehicle through a wireless communication link. 4. The datacenter of claim 1 wherein the central management station is operative to communicate with the plurality of computer systems to determine a malfunctioning system cell unit at one of the computer systems, and operative to direct the robotic vehicle to move to the cabinet rack of said malfunctioning system cell unit and to replace said malfunctioning system cell unit with a replacement system cell unit. 5. The datacenter of claim 4 wherein each cabinet rack of a computer system includes a plurality of slots for containing correspondingly said plurality of system cell units thereof; and wherein the robotic vehicle includes a robotic arm mechanism operative to extract the malfunctioning system cell unit from the corresponding slot thereof and to insert the replacement system cell unit into the corresponding slot. 6. The datacenter of claim 4 including an inventory area for storing an inventory of system cell units; and wherein the central management station is operative to determine whether or not a replacement for the malfunctioning system cell unit is in said inventory area. 7. The datacenter of claim 6 wherein the system cell units are of different types; wherein each system cell unit in the inventory area includes a circuit for transmitting a type identifier thereof; and wherein the central management station is operative to receive said type identifier transmissions to determine the types of system cell units in the inventory area. 8. The datacenter of claim 7 wherein each transmitting circuit comprises a programmable radio frequency transmitting integrated circuit. 9. The datacenter of claim 7 wherein the central management station is operative to establish a table of different types of system cell units in the inventory area based on the received identifier transmissions. 10. The datacenter of claim 6 wherein the central management station is operative to direct the robotic vehicle to the inventory area and to collect a replacement for the malfunctioning system cell unit from the inventory area. 11. The datacenter of claim 10 wherein the robotic vehicle includes a container for carrying the collected replacement system cell unit to the computer system with the malfunctioning system cell unit. 12. The datacenter of claim 4 wherein the robotic vehicle includes a central processor system pre-programmed with algorithms for controlling the performance of tasks of the robotic vehicle. 13. The datacenter of claim 4 wherein the robotic vehicle includes a central processor system and an image generating device for generating electronic image frames of a view that is under control of said central processing system, said image frames being utilized by said central processing system to control performance of tasks of the robotic vehicle. 14. The datacenter of claim 13 including a tracking strip disposed on a floor of the datacenter along paths running to the computer systems; wherein the image generating device is operative to view and generate image frames of said tracking strip; and wherein said tracking strip image frames are utilized by said central processing system to direct movement of the robotic vehicle from one location to another in the data center. 15. The datacenter of claim 4 wherein each computer system includes a management processor for detecting a malfunctioning system cell unit of the computer system, each management processor operative to alert the central management station of the malfunctioning system cell unit over a communication link. 16. The datacenter of claim 1 wherein the robotic vehicle is trainable to learn movement along a plurality of different datacenter paths. 17. The datacenter of claim 1 wherein the robotic vehicle is trainable to establish robotic task algorithms for performing maintenance on the system cell units based on physical characteristics and cabinet rack locations thereof. 18. The datacenter of claim 17 wherein the robotic vehicle is operative to perform maintenance on the designated system cell unit using the established robotic task algorithm corresponding thereto. 19. A datacenter with automated robotic maintenance, said datacenter comprising: a plurality of computer systems disposed at different locations therein, each system including: a cabinet rack; and a plurality of system cell units disposed therein for operation of the corresponding computer system; a robotic means for moving to each of the cabinet racks of said plurality and for performing maintenance on the system cell units thereof; and a central management means for communicating with said plurality of computer systems to determine a maintenance event for a system cell unit at one of the computer systems and for directing said robotic means to move to the cabinet rack of said one computer system and to perform maintenance on said system cell unit in accordance with said maintenance event. 20. Method of maintaining a datacenter with an automated robotic vehicle, said method comprising: communicating with a plurality of computer systems disposed at different locations in the datacenter to determine an occurrence of a maintenance event for a system cell unit of one of the computer systems of the plurality; directing a robotic vehicle to move to said one computer system; and directing the robotic vehicle to perform maintenance on said system cell unit of the one computer system. 21. The method of claim 20 including: communicating with the plurality of computer systems to determine a malfunctioning system cell unit of one of the computer systems of the plurality; directing the robotic vehicle to move to the computer system of the malfunctioning unit; and directing the robotic vehicle to replace the malfunctioning system cell unit with a replacement system cell unit. 22. The method of claim 21 including: operating a robotic arm mechanism of the robotic vehicle to extract the malfunctioning system cell unit from a slot in a cabinet rack of the one computer system; and operating the robotic arm mechanism to insert the replacement system cell unit in a corresponding slot of said cabinet rack. 23. The method of claim 21 including: determining if a replacement system cell unit is in an inventory area of the datacenter; directing the robotic vehicle to the inventory area to collect the replacement system cell unit; and directing the robotic vehicle to carry the replacement unit to the one computer system for replacement of the malfunctioning cell unit. 24. The method of claim 21 including directing the robotic vehicle to carry the malfunctioning unit to a shipping area of the datacenter. 25. The method of claim 20 including training the robotic vehicle to learn movement along a plurality of different datacenter paths. 26. The method of claim 20 including: training the robotic vehicle to establish robotic task algorithms for performing maintenance on the system cell units based on physical characteristics and cabinet rack locations thereof; and performing maintenance on the system cell unit of the one computer system using the established robotic task algorithm corresponding thereto. 