Described herein are transducers and their fabrication. The transducers convert between mechanical and electrical energy. Some transducers of the present invention include a pre-strained polymer. The pre-strain improves the conversion between electrical and mechanical energy. The present invention provides methods for fabricating electromechanical devices including one or more electroactive polymers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of fabricating a device comprising an electroactive polymer and multiple electrodes, the method comprising: mechanically stretching a polymer to form a pre-strained electroactive polymer, wherein the pre-strained electroactive polymer has an elastic modulus below 100 MPa; fixing a first portion of the pre-strained electroactive polymer to a solid member; forming a first electrode on a portion of a first surface of the pre-strained electroactive polymer; and forming a second electrode on a portion of a second surface of the pre-strained electroactive polymer. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the pre-strained electroactive polymer is elastically pre-strained. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer is selected from the group consisting of: a silicone elastomer- and adhesive elastomer. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the first portion of the pre-strained electroactive polymer includes an edge portion of the electroactive polymer. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the pre-strain is applied uniformly over a second portion of the polymer to produce an isotropic pre-strained electroactive polymer. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the pre-strain is applied unequally in different directions for a second portion of the polymer to produce an anisotropic pre-strained electroactive polymer. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the pre-strain includes a strain between about 100 and about 500 percent in each planar direction. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein forming first electrode comprises spraying an electrode solution onto the pre-strained polymer using a mask that defines the portion of the first surface. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the electrode solution includes carbon black, a binder and a solvent. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein fixing the portion of the pre-strained electroactive polymer to the solid member includes attaching the solid member to the portion using an adhesive. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the solid member is selected from the group consisting of: a rigid plastic film, a rigid metal film, a flexible plastic film, and a flexible metal film. 12. A method of fabricating a device comprising an electroactive polymer and multiple electrodes, the method comprising: mechanically stretching a polymer to form a pre-strained electroactive polymer, wherein the pre-strained electroactive polymer has an elastic modulus below 100 MPa; fixing a portion of the pre-strained electroactive polymer to a solid member; spraying an electrode solution onto a first surface of the electroactive polymer using a first mask that defines a pattern for a first electrode on the first surface of the electroactive polymer; and spraying the electrode solution onto a second surface of the electroactive polymer using a second mask that defines a pattern for a second electrode on the second surface of the electroactive polymer. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the electrode solution includes a conductive grease and a solvent. 14. The method of claim 13 further comprising dissolving the conductive grease in the solvent to form the electrode solution. 15. The method of claim 13 wherein the electrode solution also includes an uncured conductive silicone or an uncured elastomer. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein fixing the portion of the electroactive polymer to the solid member uses an adhesive. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein the mechanical stretch includes a strain greater than about 40 percent in a planar direction of the polymer. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the mechanical stretch includes a strain greater than about 100 percent in a planar direction of the polymer. 19. The method of claim 12 wherein the electroactive polymer includes an additive. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the additive improves at least one of polymer dielectric breakdown strength, maximum linear strain, dielectric constant, elastic modulus, response time, and actuation voltage. 