A main ellipsoidal drive element is provided including a buoyant internal chamber. The main ellipsoidal drive element defines a main ellipsoid axis, a minor ellipsoid plane, a first ellipsoid end portion, a second ellipsoid end portion, and an outer ellipsoid surface. A drive engagement element is mounted to the first ellipsoid end portion and selectively transfers rotational drive to the main ellipsoidal drive element around the main ellipsoid axis. A plurality of roller elements are mounted around a minor ellipsoid periphery of the main ellipsoidal element. Each of the roller elements are orientated to provide friction reduced rolling in a main ellipsoid axis direction and traction perpendicular to the main ellipsoid axis direction.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An all-terrain drive assembly comprising: a robotic drive platform including an upper platform surface and a side platform periphery; a drive motor; a first drive engagement element; a drive transfer chamber in communication with said drive motor and said drive engagement element, said drive transfer chamber transferring drive from said drive motor to said drive engagement element; at least one omni-wheel drive assembly mounted to said side periphery, each of said omni-wheel drive assembly comprising: a main ellipsoidal drive element defining a main ellipsoid axis, a minor ellipsoid plane, a first ellipsoid end portion, a second ellipsoid end portion, and an outer ellipsoid surface, said drive engagement element mounted to said first ellipsoid end portion and selectively transferring rotational drive to said main ellipsoidal drive element around said main ellipsoid axis; a plurality of roller elements mounted around a minor ellipsoid periphery of said main ellipsoidal element, each of said roller elements orientated to provide friction reduced rolling in a main ellipsoid axis direction and traction perpendicular to said main ellipsoid axis direction. 2. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of fin elements positioned on said outer ellipsoid surface, each of said fin elements orientated parallel to said main ellipsoid axis. 3. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 2, wherein each of said fin elements comprises: a solid fin portion having a first solid end in direct communication with said outer ellipsoid surface and a second solid end positioned remotely from said outer ellipsoid surface; and a brush portion extending radially outwards from said second solid end. 4. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 2, wherein said plurality of fin elements comprises: a first fin group positioned between each of said plurality of roller elements. 5. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 4, wherein said plurality of fin elements further comprises: a second fin group positioned coincident with said plurality of roller elements, each of said second fin group comprising: a first fin portion extending from said first ellipsoidal end portion to said roller element; and a second fin portion extending from said roller element to said second ellipsoidal end portion. 6. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of roller elements is positioned within a watertight well formed within said main ellipsoidal drive element such that only a portion of each of said roller elements protrudes from said outer ellipsoidal surface. 7. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 1, wherein said plurality of roller elements comprises a plurality of floating wheels. 8. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 1, wherein drive transfer chamber comprises a gear chamber. 9. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 1, wherein drive engagement element comprises: a drive wheel element; and an engagement pin. 10. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 1, wherein first ellipsoidal end portion is mounted to said drive engagement element such that said first ellipsoidal end portion is elevated relative to said second ellipsoidal end portion. 11. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 10, wherein main ellipsoidal drive element is mounted to said side periphery on approximately a 72 degree angle. 12. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 1, wherein said main ellipsoidal drive element comprises a buoyant internal chamber. 13. An all-terrain drive assembly comprising: a robotic drive platform including an upper platform surface and a side platform periphery; a plurality of omni-wheel drive assemblies mounted to said side periphery, each of said omni-wheel drive assemblies comprising: a main ellipsoidal drive element defining a main ellipsoid axis, a minor ellipsoid plane, a first ellipsoid end portion, a second ellipsoid end portion, and an outer ellipsoid surface; a plurality of fin elements positioned on said outer ellipsoid surface, each of said fin elements orientated parallel to said main ellipsoid axis. 14. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 13, wherein each of said fin elements comprises: a solid fin portion having a first solid end in direct communication with said outer ellipsoid surface and a second solid end positioned remotely from said outer ellipsoid surface; and a brush portion extending radially outwards from said second solid end. 15. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 13, wherein each of said fin elements comprises a brush portion. 16. An all-terrain drive assembly as described in claim 13, further comprising: a drive motor: a first drive engagement element; and a drive transfer chamber in communication with said drive motor and said drive engagement element, said drive transfer chamber transferring drive from said drive motor to said drive engagement element; wherein said drive engagement element is mounted to said first ellipsoid end portion and selectively transfers rotational drive to said main ellipsoidal drive element around said main ellipsoid axis. 17. An all-terrain drive assembly comprising: a robotic drive platform including an upper platform surface and a side platform periphery; three omni-wheel drive assemblies mounted to said side platform periphery and positioned at 120 degree intervals, each of said three omni-wheel drive assemblies selectively activated, each of said omni-wheel drive assemblies comprising: a drive motor; a first drive engagement element; a drive transfer chamber in communication with said drive motor and said drive engagement element, said drive transfer chamber transferring drive from said drive motor to said drive engagement element; a main ellipsoidal drive element defining a main ellipsoid axis, a minor ellipsoid plane, a first ellipsoid end portion, a second ellipsoid end portion, and an outer ellipsoid surface, said drive engagement element mounted to said first ellipsoid end portion and selectively transferring rotational drive to said main ellipsoidal drive element around said main ellipsoid axis; and a plurality of roller elements mounted around a minor ellipsoid periphery of said main ellipsoidal element, each of said roller elements orientated to provide friction reduced rolling in a main ellipsoid axis direction and traction perpendicular to said main ellipsoid axis direction. 18. An omni-wheel drive assembly comprising: a main ellipsoidal drive element defining a main ellipsoid axis, a minor ellipsoid plane, a first ellipsoid end portion, a second ellipsoid end portion, and an outer ellipsoid surface, said main ellipsoidal drive element providing rotational drive around said main ellipsoid axis; and a plurality of roller elements mounted around a minor ellipsoid periphery of said main ellipsoidal element, each of said roller elements orientated to provide friction reduced rolling in a main ellipsoid axis direction and traction perpendicular to said main ellipsoid axis direction. 19. An omni-wheel drive assembly comprising: an oblong main ellipsoid drive element defining a main ellipsoid axis, a minor ellipsoid plane, a first ellipsoid end portion, a second ellipsoid end portion, and an outer ellipsoid surface, said main ellipsoidal drive element providing rotational drive around said main ellipsoid axis; and a plurality of fin elements positioned on said outer ellipsoid surface, each of said fin elements orientated parallel to said main ellipsoid axis. 