A method of producing material from recycled glass comprising: preparing a mixture of glass in a cementitious matrix, and an alkali-silica reaction suppressant; providing a mold of the material and coating said mold with a release agent; casting said mixture into said mold; curing said mold; and removing the material from said mold. The recycled glass and concrete compositions are: 25-79% by weight glass; 8-35% by weight cement and up to 22% by weight of an alkali-silica reaction suppressant.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process to produce recycled glass/cement panels comprising: (a) delivering materials including (i) 25-79% by weight of glass having a particle size in the range of 1 .mu.m to 25 mm; (ii) 19-30% by weight Portland cement; and (iii) an alkali-silica reaction suppressant selected from the group consisting of metakaolin, fly ash, silica fume and blast furnace slag present in an amount up to 22% by weight (b) adding up to 3% by weight of a dispersant and water to said materials to create a slurry that is inert, non-toxic and greater than 90% inorganic material, wherein the water content in said slurry ranges from 4% to 20% by weight; (c) mixing said slurry under conditions to avoid curing of the product during operation and to breakdown agglomerate and to mix said slurry; (d) casting said slurry into a mold having a dimension ranging from 48''.times.96'' to 60''.times.120''; (e) vibrating said mold to further spread said slurry in the mold evenly and to release all entrapped air at a vibration frequency in the range of 10-200 Hz and a vibration amplitude in the range of 0-5 mm; (g) curing said mold at temperatures ranging from 50 to 185.degree. F. with a humidity range from 70% RH to 100% RH; and (h) removing the recycled glass/cement panel from said mold wherein said panel has a compressive strength between 2000-16,750 psi, a flexural strength between 648-1170 psi and a porosity between 0.1% to 6.5%. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said glass is in a crushed or ground form. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said curing is in a controlled environmental chamber. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said mold is in the form of a flat panel. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein said mold is in the form of a 3-D objects. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein said dispersant is selected from the group consisting of polycarboxylate based dispersants, naphthalene based dispersants, melamine based dispersants and lignosulphate based dispersants. 7. The method according to 1, wherein said mixture further comprises a pigment component present in an amount up to 15% by weight. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein said mixture further comprises a fiber component present in an amount up to 5% by weight. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein said mixture further comprising at least one material from the group consisting of stone chips, shell chips, mother of pearl chips, metal chips, air-entraining agents, anti-foaming agents, and viscosity modifying agents. 10. The method according to claim 1, comprising the further step of polishing the material removed from the mold. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein said glass is amorphous silica and is selected from the group consisting of borosilicate glass, E-glass, soda-lime glass and colored glass. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein particle size distribution of said glass is varied to control viscosity of said mixture. 