A semiconductor reticle transportation container includes a box and a base, the box having an opening and the base including a reticle support. The reticle is placed on the support and the box is placed on the base so that the reticle passes through the opening while being lifted off of the support by plungers contacting the lower edge of the reticle. After the box is closed, the reticle is compliantly constrained horizontally and vertically and is held away from the support.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A transportable container comprising: a box having an opening; a base having dimensions arranged to fit in and seal said opening; a support attached to said base for supporting an article to be transported, said support located on said base so that it passes through said opening in a first direction when said box is placed on said base; a rail fixed to said box; a block movable on said rail, a principal component of said movement being in said first direction, said block including a guide channel formed in said block and having a principal directional component along a second direction perpendicular to said first direction, said second direction being toward the position in which said article would be when supported by said support; a plunger movable in said guide channel and having an end face adapted to engage an article on said support; and a link pivotably mounted on said rail and connected to said plunger. 2. A container as in claim 1 wherein said guide channel is along a direction perpendicular to said first direction. 3. A container as in claim 1 wherein said plunger end face is aligned along a direction at an angle to said first direction. 4. A container as in claim 1 wherein said plunger end face is aligned substantially in a direction 45.degree. to said first direction. 5. A container as in claim 1, and further including a gasket for sealing said opening, and said opening has a gasket-engaging surface for engaging said gasket. 6. A container as in claim 5 wherein said gasket-engaging surface is at an angle to the perpendicular to said first direction. 7. A container as in claim 6 wherein said angle is substantially 45.degree.. 8. A container as in claim 1, and further comprising a compliant pad on the end face of said plunger. 9. A container as in claim 1 wherein said container further comprises gas purging, filtration, and/or pressure conditioning ports to allow the container to be filled and purged with a chosen gas or to withstand pressure variations during shipment without allowing the ingress of gaseous contaminants from outside said container. 10. A container as in claim 1 wherein said container further comprises chemical absorbent material within the container to remove airborne compounds that might lead to degradation of the article. 