Connection objects or other such data structures facilitate establishing and configuring connections between objects that model components in a process control system. A first set of data structures (e.g., the object connection type structures) identify valid types for component-to-component pairings and the respective roles of each component in the pairing (e.g., parent or child, source or sink). A second set of data structures (e.g., the parameter connection type structures) supply similar information for parameter-to-parameter connections. Together, these data structures can be used, for example, to validate component-to-component connections suggested by the user and to automatically configure parameter-to-parameter connections. Actual connections, both at the component or parameter level, are reflected using parameter overrides within the parameterized object model--with which the connection objects are constructed.
Claims In view thereof, what we claim is: 1. A digital data processing device comprising a processor that executes programming that configures that device as an apparatus for configuring at least one of a controlled process, a process control system, a control level hierarchy, and the apparatus for configuring the control system (one or more of which are hereinafter referred to as the "control system"), the apparatus comprising: a plurality of objects, each object representing a configurable entity in the control system, each object being associated with an object type and each object type being (i) directly associated with one or more type categories and (ii) indirectly associated with one or more other type categories through one or more hierarchical relationships; at least one object (hereinafter referred to as a "connection" object) identifying combinations of object types that form one or more permissible relationships, wherein the connection object specifies a role that an object serves in an actual or potential parent/child relationship, the role including any of a parent role and a child rote, and wherein the connection object identifies, for the object that serves in a child role, any of a weight and other quantitative attribute (hereinafter collectively referred to as "weight") associated with the object, and the connection object identifies, for the object that serves in a parent role, a capacity in weight of the object to support relationships with objects that serve in a child role; the apparatus validating a potential relationship between objects identified during configuration of the control system by comparing the object types with which they are directly and/or indirectly associated with the one or more permissible relationships identified by the connection object, and wherein multiple instances of the object are created and each object created inherits object type characteristics as a user associates said object with said type category using the hierarchical relationships and further wherein a first instance characteristics may differ from a second instance characteristics for non-identical objects of the same type. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the connection object specifies a role that one or more object types serves in an actual or potential relationship, the role including at least one of (i) any of source and sink in a source/sink relationship, and (ii) any of parent and child in a parent/child relationship. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the parent/child relationship is indicative of any of a hierarchical and a containment relationship between objects. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the connection object identifies, for an object that may serve in a parent role, a capacity of the object to support relationships with objects that serve in a child role. 5. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the source/sink relationship is indicative of a peer-to-peer relationship between objects. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the connection object specifies a role that an object serves in an actual or potential source/sink relationship, the role including any of a source role and a sink role. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the connection object identifies, for an object that serves in a source role, any of a minimum and maximum number of relationships that the object supports with objects that serve in a sink role. 8. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the connection object identifies, for an object that serves in a sink role, any of a minimum and maximum number of relationships that the object supports with objects that serve in a source role. 9. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the configurable entity includes any of a field device, control processor, block, loop, compound, historian, object type category, display placeholder, graphical display entity, and report. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said one or more permissible relationships include any of a parent/child relationship and a source/sink relationship. 11. A digital data processing device comprising a processor that executes programming that configures that device as an apparatus for configuring any of a controlled process, a process control system, a control level hierarchy, and the apparatus for configuring the control system (one or more of which are hereinafter referred to as the "control system"), the apparatus comprising: a plurality of objects, each object representing a configurable entity in the control system, each object being associated with an object type, and each object type being (i) directly associated with one or more type categories and (ii) indirectly associated with one or more other type categories through one or more hierarchical relationships; at least one object (hereinafter referred to as a "connection" object) identifying combinations of object types that form one or more permissible relationships, wherein the connection object specifies a role that an object serves in an actual or potential parent/child relationship, the role including any of a parent role and a child rote, and wherein the connection object identifies, for the object that serves in a child role, any of a weight and other quantitative attribute (hereinafter collectively referred to as "weight") associated with the object, and the connection object identifies, for the object that serves in a parent role, a capacity in weight of the object to support relationships with objects that serve in a child role; the apparatus at least initially validating a potential relationship between objects identified during configuration of the control system by comparing the object types with which they are directly and/or indirectly associated with the one or more permissible relationships identified by the connection object; the connection object identifying validated relationships established between objects and wherein multiple instances of the object are created and each object created inherits object type characteristics as a user associates said object with said type category using the hierarchical relationships and further wherein a first instance characteristics may differ from a second instance characteristics for non-identical object of the same type. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the connection object specifies a role that the object serves in an actual or potential relationship with any of itself and another object, the role including at least one of (i) any of source and sink in a source/sink relationship, and (ii) any of parent and child in a parent/child relationship. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the parent/child relationship is indicative of any of a hierarchical and a containment relationship between objects. 14. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the connection object identifies, for the object that serves in a parent role, a capacity of the object to support relationships with objects that serve in a child role. 15. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the source/sink relationship is indicative of a peer-to-peer relationship between objects. 16. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein said one or more permissible relationships include any of a parent/child relationship and a source/sink relationship. 17. A non-transitory computer readable-medium having stored thereon programming which, when executed, configures a digital data processor to perform the steps of: creating a plurality of objects, each object representing a configurable entity in any of (i) a controlled process, (ii) a process control system, (iii) a control level hierarchy, and (iv) apparatus for configuring the control system, each object being associated with an object type, each object type being (i) directly associated with one or more type categories and (ii) indirectly associated with one or more other type categories through one or more hierarchical relationships, and at least one object (hereinafter referred to as a "connection" object) identifying combinations of object types that form one or more permissible relationships, wherein the connection object specifies a role that an object serves in an actual or potential parent/child relationship, the role including any of a parent role and a child rote, and wherein the connection object identifies, for the object that serves in a child role, any of a weight and other quantitative attribute (hereinafter collectively referred to as "weight") associated with the object, and the connection object identifies, for the object that serves in a parent role, a capacity in weight of the object to support relationships with objects that serve in a child role; validating a potential relationship between objects by comparing the object types with which they are directly and/or indirectly associated with the one or more permissible relationships identified by the connection object and wherein multiple instances of the object are created and each object created inherits object type characteristics as a user associates said object with said type category using the hierarchical relationship and further wherein a first instance characteristics may differ from a second instance characteristics for non-identical objects of the same type. 