Ultrasonic testing on a part includes scanning the part while performing pulse echo and through transmission ultrasonic testing on the part; converting pulse echo data into time of flight (TOF) and amplitude channels, and converting through transmission data into a data representation that identifies porosity. The testing further includes analyzing the pulse echo TOF to identify locations of any anomalies in the part, and using loss of back (LOB) at each of the identified locations to discriminate low porosity from other anomalies.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of performing ultrasonic testing on a part, the method comprising: scanning the part while performing pulse echo and through transmission ultrasonic testing on the part; converting pulse echo data into time of flight (TOF) and amplitude channels, and converting through transmission data into a data representation that identifies porosity level; analyzing the pulse echo TOF to identify locations of any anomalies in the part; and determining loss of back (LOB) at each of the identified locations to discriminate low porosity from other anomalies. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising reporting those locations having TOF and LOB as anomalies other than lower low porosity. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein further comprising analyzing those locations having TOF but no LOB for low porosity level. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the part is not repaired for low porosity at a location if the porosity level at that location is below a threshold. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising converting the through transmission data into amplitude C-scan data. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the C-scan data has continuity and overlap with the pulse echo data. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising optimizing dynamic range of the through transmission testing for porosity. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the pulse echo and through transmission data are obtained simultaneously. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the part is a hat stiffener, and wherein the pulse echo and through transmission testing are performed only on a cap and upper radius of the hat stiffener. 10. A system for performing ultrasonic testing on a part, the system comprising a first transducer array corresponding to a front surface of the part; a second transducer array corresponding to a back surface of the part; and a computer programmed to control the first transducer array to perform pulse echo testing on the part, including controlling the first transducer array to generate first acoustic signals and detect reflections of the first signals, wherein the computer forms pulse echo data from the pulse echo testing and converts the pulse echo data into time of flight (TOF) and amplitude data; the computer further programmed to control the first and second transducer arrays to perform through transmission testing on the part to form through transmission data from the through transmission testing in order to form loss of back (LOB) data; and the computer further programmed to analyze the pulse echo TOF and amplitude data to identify locations of any anomalies in the part and to use the loss of back from the through transmission data at each of the identified locations to discriminate low porosity from other anomalies. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the part is a hat stiffener; wherein the second transducer array has a trapezoidal shape and is located inside the hat stiffener during ultrasonic testing. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein if TOF and LOB occur at a location, the computer reports an anomaly other than low porosity level at that location. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein the computer is programmed to convert the through transmission data into amplitude C-scan data. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the C-scan data has continuity and overlap with the pulse echo data. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein the pulse echo and through transmission data are obtained simultaneously. 16. The system of claim 10, wherein the part is a hat stiffener, and wherein the pulse echo and through transmission testing are performed only on a cap and upper radius of the hat stiffener. 17. A method of performing nondestructive inspection of a composite hat stiffener, the method comprising: positioning a first outer transducer array along an outer surface of a cap and upper radius of the hat stiffener, and positioning an inner transducer array having a trapezoidal configuration of transducers inside the hat stiffener along, an inner surface of the cap and upper radius; positioning a second outer transducer array along a web and lower radius of the hat stiffener; and scanning the transducer arrays along the hat stiffener while obtaining pulse echo and through transmission data about the cap and the upper radius of the hat stiffener and obtaining pulse echo data about the web and lower radius of the hat stiffener; wherein obtaining the pulse echo data for the cap and upper radius includes using the first outer transducer array to generate acoustic signals and detect reflections of the signals; and wherein obtaining the through transmission data for the cap and the upper radius includes using the inner transducer array to generate acoustic signals and the first outer transducer array to detect those signals transmitted through the cap and the radius. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the outer and inner transducer arrays constitute a first group for scanning the cap and an upper radius on one side of the hat stiffener; and wherein a second group of outer and inner transducer arrays is used to scan the cap and an upper radius on another side of the hat stiffener. 19. Apparatus for performing ultrasonic testing on an aircraft fuselage hat stiffener, the apparatus comprising: a first outer transducer array operable in pulse echo and through transmission modes for scanning a cap and upper radius of the hat stiffener; a second outer transducer for scanning a web and lower radius of the hat stiffener; and an inner transducer array operable in through transmission mode for scanning an inner surface of the hat stiffener; the inner and first outer transducer arrays cooperating to perform both pulse echo and through transmission ultrasonic testing on the fuselage stiffener. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the inner transducer array has a trapezoidal configuration of transducer to match the inner surface of the hat stiffener. 21. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the outer and inner transducer arrays constitute a first group for scanning the cap and upper radius on one side of the hat stiffener; the apparatus further comprising a second group of outer and inner transducer arrays for scanning the cap and an upper radius on another side of the hat stiffener. 22. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising equipment for processing pulse echo and through transmission data to locate anomalies in the part and using loss of back to distinguish low porosity from other anomalies. 