Methods and systems are provided for conducting a reaction at a selected temperature or range of temperatures over time. An array device is provided. The array device contains separate reaction chambers and is formed as an elastomeric block from multiple layers. At least one layer has at least one recess that recess has at least one deflectable membrane integral to the layer with the recess. The array device has a thermal transfer device proximal to at least one of the reaction chambers. The thermal transfer device is formed to contact a thermal control source. Reagents for carrying out a desired reaction are introduced into the array device. The array device is contacted with a thermal control device such that the thermal control device is in thermal communication with the thermal control source so that a temperature of the reaction in at least one of the reaction chamber is changed as a result of a change in temperature of the thermal control source.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of conducting a reaction at a selected temperature or range of temperatures over time, the method comprising: providing an array device for containing a plurality of separate reaction chambers, the array device comprising an elastomeric block formed from a plurality of layers, wherein at least one layer has at least one recess formed therein, the recess having at least one deflectable membrane integral to the layer with the recess, the array device further comprising a thermal transfer device proximal to at least one of the reaction chambers, the thermal transfer device being formed to contact a thermal control source; introducing into the array device reagents for carrying out a desired reaction; and contacting the array device with a thermal control device such that the thermal control device is in thermal communication with the thermal control source so that a temperature of the reaction in at least one of the reaction chambers is changed as a result of a change in temperature of the thermal control source, wherein the thermal control device is adapted to apply a force to the thermal transfer device to urge the thermal transfer device towards the thermal control source. 2. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises a semiconductor. 3. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises silicon. 4. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises a reflective material. 5. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises a metal. 6. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the force comprises a magnetic, electrostatic, or vacuum force. 7. The method recited in claim 6 wherein the force comprises a vacuum force applied towards the thermal transfer device through channels formed in a surface of the thermal control device or the thermal transfer device. 8. The method recited in claim 7 further comprising detecting a level of vacuum achieved between the surface of the thermal control device and a surface of the thermal transfer device. 9. The method recited in claim 8 wherein detecting the level of vacuum is performed with a vacuum level detector located at a position along the channel or channels distal from a location of a source of vacuum. 10. The method recited in claim 9 wherein when the level of vacuum does not exceed a preset level an alert is manifested or a realignment protocol is engaged. 11. The method recited in claim 1 wherein contacting the array device with the thermal control device is carried out by employment of one or more mechanical or electromechanical positioning devices. 12. The method recited in claim 1 further comprising automatically controlling and monitoring the carrying out of the method. 13. A method of conducting a reaction at a selected temperature or range of temperatures over time, the method comprising: providing an array device for containing a plurality of separate reaction chambers, the array device comprising an elastomeric block formed from a plurality of layers, wherein at least one layer has at least one recess formed therein, the recess having at least one deflectable membrane integral to the layer with the recess, the array device further comprising a thermal transfer device proximal to at least one of the reaction chambers, the thermal transfer device being formed to contact a thermal control source; introducing into the array device reagents for carrying out a desired reaction; contacting the array device with a thermal control device such that the thermal control device is in thermal communication with the thermal control source so that a temperature of the reaction in at least one of the reaction chambers is changed as a result of a change in temperature of the thermal control source; and automatically controlling and monitoring the carrying out of the method, wherein automatically controlling and monitoring the carrying out of the method is performed with an automatic control system in operable communication with a robotic control system for introducing and removing the array device from the thermal control device. 14. The method recited in claim 1 further comprising monitoring progress of the reactions. 15. The method recited in claim 13 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises a semiconductor. 16. The method recited in claim 13 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises silicon. 17. The method recited in claim 13 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises a reflective material. 18. The method recited in claim 13 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises a metal. 19. The method recited in claim 1 wherein the desired reaction comprises a polymerase chain reaction. 20. The method recited in claim 13 wherein the desired reaction comprises a polymerase chain reaction. 21. A method of conducting a reaction at a selected temperature or range of temperatures over time, the method comprising: providing an array device for containing a plurality of separate reaction chambers, the array device further comprising a thermal transfer device proximal to at least one of the reaction chambers, the thermal transfer device being formed to contact a thermal control source; introducing into the array device reagents for carrying out a desired reaction; and contacting the array device with a thermal control device such that the thermal control device is in thermal communication with the thermal control source so that a temperature of the reaction in at least one of the reaction chambers is changed as a result of a change in temperature of the thermal control source, wherein the thermal control device is adapted to apply a force to the thermal transfer device to urge the thermal transfer device towards the thermal control source. 22. The method recited in claim 21 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises a semiconductor. 23. The method recited in claim 21 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises silicon. 24. The method recited in claim 21 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises a reflective material. 25. The method recited in claim 21 wherein the thermal transfer device comprises a metal. 26. The method recited in claim 21 wherein the force comprises a magnetic, electrostatic, or vacuum force. 27. The method recited in claim 26 wherein the force comprises a vacuum force applied towards the thermal transfer device through channels formed in a surface of the thermal control device or the thermal transfer device. 28. The method recited in claim 27 further comprising detecting a level of vacuum achieved between the surface of the thermal control device and a surface of the thermal transfer device. 29. The method recited in claim 28 wherein detecting the level of vacuum is performed with a vacuum level detector located at a position along the channel or channels distal from a location of a source of vacuum. 30. The method recited in claim 29 wherein when the level of vacuum does not exceed a preset level an alert is manifested or a realignment protocol is engaged. 31. The method recited in claim 21 wherein contacting the array device with the thermal control device is carried out by employment of one or more mechanical or electromechanical positioning devices. 32. The method recited in claim 21 further comprising automatically controlling and monitoring the carrying out of the method. 