A hair transplantation method and apparatus utilizes a robot, which includes a robotic arm, having a hair follicle effector associated with the robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting .[.at least one.]. hair .[.follicle.]. .Iadd.follicles .Iaddend..[.from a portion of a patient's scalp.]..Iadd., .Iaddend.comprising: a robot, including .[.at least one.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.robotic arm .[.having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp.].; .Iadd.and.Iaddend. a hair follicle plug cutting device .[.associated with the first end of.]. .Iadd.carried by .Iaddend.the robotic arm, the robotic arm being adjustably maneuverable .[., so that.]. .Iadd.and directed by an imaging system, the imaging system being configured to create an image including one or more hair follicles recognizable in the image, allow identifying a location of the one or more hair follicles, and direct the robotic arm based on the hair follicle location identified with use of the imaging system to selectively place .Iaddend.the plug cutting device .[.is capable of being selectably placed.]. proximate the .[.patient's scalp; and.]. .Iadd.identified hair follicle location, and wherein .Iaddend.the plug cutting device .[.being.]. .Iadd.is configured to be .Iaddend.operated using a substantially automated process to harvest .[.the at least.]. one .Iadd.or more .Iaddend.hair follicle.Iadd.s.Iaddend.. 2. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the .[.robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the.]. robotic arm is moved to place the plug cutting device proximate the .[.patient's scalp using a substantially automated process.]. .Iadd.identified hair follicle location on a patient under control of a computer program.Iaddend.. 3. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the .[.portion of the.]. .Iadd.identified hair follicle location is on a .Iaddend.patient's scalp .[.under consideration is a flap that has been removed from the patient's scalp.].. 4. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot. 5. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.4.]. .Iadd.1.Iaddend., further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks .[.strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp.].. 6. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, .[.further comprising.]. .Iadd.wherein the imaging system is .Iaddend.a video system that includes a camera .[.and a monitor.]..Iadd., the video system being further configured .Iaddend.for displaying an image of the .[.portion of patient's scalp under consideration.]. .Iadd.location of one or more hair follicles.Iaddend.. 7. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 6, wherein the video system is .[.used.]. .Iadd.configured .Iaddend.for mapping locations of existing hair follicles .[.on the portion of the patient's scalp.]. under consideration. 8. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.7.]. .Iadd.6.Iaddend., wherein the video system is .[.used.]. .Iadd.configured .Iaddend.to determine an angular disposition of .[.the.]. at least one .Iadd.existing .Iaddend.hair follicle .[.with respect to the patient's scalp.].. 9. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.6.]. .Iadd.1.Iaddend., wherein .[.the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration.]. .Iadd.the imaging system comprises a computer.Iaddend.. 10. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.9.]. .Iadd.6.Iaddend., wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and .[.the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.virtual image is created by scanning the .[.patient's scalp.]. .Iadd.location of one or more hair follicles .Iaddend.using the stereo pair of video cameras. 11. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.9.]. .Iadd.6.Iaddend., wherein the .[.video system includes.]. .Iadd.camera is .Iaddend.a video camera .[.and.]..Iadd., the video system further includes .Iaddend.a range finder, and .[.the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.virtual image is created by scanning the .[.patient's scalp.]. .Iadd.location of one or more hair follicles .Iaddend.using the video camera and the range finder. 12. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.9.]. .Iadd.6.Iaddend., wherein the .[.video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual.]. image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the .[.at least one.]. camera at different perspectives. 13. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.9, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a location and three-dimensional spacing of the at least one hair follicle to be harvested.]. .Iadd.1, wherein identifying the location of the one or more hair follicles comprises calculating three-dimensional coordinates of the one or more hair follicles.Iaddend.. .[.14. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 13, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration is used to move the robotic arm and place the plug cutting device proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. 15. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.13.]. .Iadd.6.Iaddend., wherein the video system is .[.used.]. .Iadd.configured .Iaddend.to simultaneously display .[.the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.virtual image and a real-time image .[.of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration.].. 16. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated .Iadd.using an operating mechanism or under control of a computer program .Iaddend.to harvest a follicular unit. .[.17. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 16, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.18. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 16, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.19. A hair transplantation apparatus for implanting at least one hair follicle into a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle introducer associated with the first end of the robotic arm, the robotic arm being adjustably maneuverable so that the hair follicle introducer is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; and the hair follicle introducer is loaded with the at least one hair follicle and then operated using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one hair follicle..]. .[.20. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the at least one hair follicle is loaded into the hair follicle introducer using a substantially automated process..]. .[.21. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the robotic arm is moved to place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.22. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.23. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 22, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.24. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.25. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 24, wherein the video system is used for planning a desired location for the at least one hair follicle to be implanted in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.26. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 25, wherein, in planning the desired location for the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to calculate a distance between a plurality of hair follicles to be implanted in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.27. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 25, wherein, in planning the desired location for the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to plan a random distribution of a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.28. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 24, wherein the video system is used to determine an angular disposition of the at least one hair follicle with respect to the patient's scalp..]. .[.29. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 24, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.30. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 29, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.31. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 29, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.32. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 29, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.33. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 29, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional spacing of a location the at least one hair follicle is to be implanted..]. .[.34. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 33, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration is used to move the robotic arm and place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.35. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 29, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.36. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. .[.37. A hair transplantation apparatus for implanting at least one hair follicle into a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle introducer associated with the first end of the robotic arm, the robot being capable of registering a position of the introducer with at least a portion of the patient's scalp under consideration so that the position of the introducer is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration, and the robotic arm is moved to place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process; and the hair follicle introducer is loaded with the at least one hair follicle and then operated using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one hair follicle..]. .[.38. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one hair follicle is loaded into the hair follicle introducer using a substantially automated process..]. .[.39. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.40. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 39, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.41. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.42. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 41, wherein the video system is used for planning a desired location for the at least one hair follicle to be implanted in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.43. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 42, wherein, in planning the desired location of the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to calculate a distance between a plurality of hair follicles to be implanted in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.44. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 42, wherein, in planning the desired location of the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to plan a random distribution of a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.45. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 41, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.46. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.47. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.48. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.49. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional spacing of a location the at least one hair follicle is to be implanted..]. .[.50. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.51. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. 52. .[.A.]. .Iadd.The .Iaddend.hair transplantation apparatus .[.for harvesting at least one hair follicle from a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle plug cutting device associated with the first end of the robotic arm,.]. .Iadd.of claim 1, wherein .Iaddend.the robot .[.being capable of.]. .Iadd.is configured for .Iaddend.registering a position of the plug cutting device with .[.at least a portion of the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.patient's scalp .[.under consideration.]..Iadd., .Iaddend.so that the position of the plug cutting device is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the .[.portion of the.]. patient's scalp .[.under consideration, and the robotic arm is moved to place the plug cutting device proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process; and the plug cutting device being operated using a substantially automated process to harvest the at least one hair follicle.].. .[.53. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, wherein the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration is a flap that has been removed from the patient's scalp..]. .[.54. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.55. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 54, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.56. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.57. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 56, wherein the video system is used for mapping locations of existing hair follicles on the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.58. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 57, wherein the video system is used to determine the angular disposition of the at least one hair follicle with respect to the patient's scalp..]. .[.59. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 56, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.60. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.61. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.62. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.63. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a location and three-dimensional spacing of the at least one hair follicle to be harvested..]. .[.64. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.65. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated to harvest a follicular unit..]. .[.66. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 65, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.67. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 65, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.68. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting at least one hair follicle and implanting the at least one hair follicle from/into a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; an instrument holder associated with the first end of the robotic arm; a hair plug cutting device associated with the instrument holder, the robot being adjustably maneuverable so that the plug cutting device is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; the plug cutting device being operated using a substantially automated process to harvest the at least one hair follicle from a first location of the patient's scalp; a hair follicle introducer associated with the instrument holder, the robot being adjustably maneuverable so that the introducer is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; and the hair follicle introducer being operated using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one hair follicle into a second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.69. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the plug cutting device and the hair follicle introducer are the same device..]. .[.70. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the robotic arm is moved to place the plug cutting device and the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.71. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.72. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 71, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.73. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.74. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 73, wherein the video system is used for mapping the first location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.75. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 74, wherein the video system is used to determine the angular disposition of the at least one hair follicle with respect to the patient's scalp..]. .[.76. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 73, wherein the video system is used for planning the second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.77. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 76, wherein, in planning the second location, the video system is used to calculate a distance between the second location and a plurality of additional locations hair follicles are to be implanted in the patient's scalp..]. .[.78. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 73, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.79. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.80. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.81. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.82. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the first location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.83. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 82, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the first location is used to move the robotic arm and place the plug cutting device proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.84. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.85. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 84, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the second location is used to move the robotic arm and place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.86. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.87. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. .[.88. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated to harvest a follicular unit..]. .[.89. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 88, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.90. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 88, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.91. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting at least one hair follicle and implanting the at least one hair follicle from/into a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; an instrument holder associated with the first end of the robotic arm; a hair follicle plug cutting device associated with the instrument holder, the robot being capable of registering a position of the plug cutting device with a first location of the patient's scalp so that the position of the plug cutting device is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the first location, and the robotic arm is moved to place the plug cutting device proximate the first location using a substantially automated process; the plug cutting device being operated using a substantially automated process to harvest the at least one hair follicle; a hair follicle introducer associated with the instrument holder, the robot being capable of registering a position of the introducer with a second location of the patient's scalp so that the position of the introducer is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the second location, and the robotic arm is moved to place the introducer proximate the second location using a substantially automated process; and the hair follicle introducer is loaded with the at least one hair follicle and then operated using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one hair follicle..]. .[.92. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the plug cutting device and the hair follicle introducer are the same device..]. .[.93. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.94. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 93, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.95. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.96. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 95, wherein the video system is used for mapping the first location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.97. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 95, wherein the video system is used for planning the second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.98. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 95, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.99. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.100. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.101. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.102. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the first location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.103. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.104. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system simultaneously displays the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.105. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the at least one hair follicle is loaded into the hair follicle introducer using a substantially automated process..]. .[.106. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. .[.107. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated to harvest a follicular unit..]. .[.108. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 107, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.109. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 107, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. .Iadd.110. A hair harvesting apparatus, comprising: a robot an imaging system configured to create an image including one or more hair follicles recognizable in the image and allow identifying a location of a hair graft containing at least one hair follicle; and a tool maneuverable by the robot and configured to harvest the hair graft, wherein the robot is directed by the imaging system based on the location of the hair graft identified with use of the imaging system to place the tool proximate the identified location of the hair graft, and wherein the tool is configured to be operated using substantially automated process to harvest the hair graft for transplantation..Iaddend. .Iadd.111. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 110, wherein the tool includes at least one needle..Iaddend. .Iadd.112. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 110, wherein operation of the tool is computer-controlled..Iaddend. .Iadd.113. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 110, wherein operation of the tool is image-guided..Iaddend. .Iadd.114. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 110, wherein the robot is configured to harvest the hair graft directly from the patient..Iaddend. .Iadd.115. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 110, wherein identifying the location of the hair graft comprises calculating three-dimensional coordinates of the at least one hair follicle, and wherein the imaging system is configured for mapping locations of the one or more hair follicles..Iaddend. .Iadd.116. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system is configured to determine an angular disposition of at least one hair follicle..Iaddend. .Iadd.117. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 110, the imaging system comprising at least one camera..Iaddend. .Iadd.118. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 117, further comprising a distance measuring device for measuring distance between the at least one camera and the location of the hair graft..Iaddend. .Iadd.119. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system comprises a computer, and wherein the robot is directed to place the tool based on the identified location of the hair graft under control of a computer program..Iaddend. .Iadd.120. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 110, wherein the tool comprises a plug cutting device..Iaddend. .Iadd.121. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 112, wherein the tool is operated to select every Nth hair graft for harvesting..Iaddend. .Iadd.122. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 110, further comprising a hair follicle insertion device maneuverable by the robot to implant hair grafts..Iaddend. .Iadd.123. The hair harvesting apparatus of claim 122, wherein operation of the hair follicle insertion device is computer-controlled or controlled by an operating mechanism..Iaddend. 