A hair transplantation method and apparatus utilizes a robot, which includes a robotic arm, having a hair follicle effector associated with the robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed: .[.1. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting at least one hair follicle from a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle plug cutting device associated with the first end of the robotic arm, the robotic arm being adjustably maneuverable so that the plug cutting device is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; and the plug cutting device being operated using a substantially automated process to harvest the at least one hair follicle..]. .[.2. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the robotic arm is moved to place the plug cutting device proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.3. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration is a flap that has been removed from the patient's scalp..]. .[.4. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.5. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.6. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.7. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 6, wherein the video system is used for mapping locations of existing hair follicles on the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.8. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 7, wherein the video system is used to determine an angular disposition of the at least one hair follicle with respect to the patient's scalp..]. .[.9. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 6, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.10. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.11. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.12. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.13. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a location and three-dimensional spacing of the at least one hair follicle to be harvested..]. .[.14. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 13, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration is used to move the robotic arm and place the plug cutting device proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.15. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 13, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.16. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated to harvest a follicular unit..]. .[.17. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 16, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.18. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 16, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.19. A hair transplantation apparatus for implanting at least one hair follicle into a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle introducer associated with the first end of the robotic arm, the robotic arm being adjustably maneuverable so that the hair follicle introducer is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; and the hair follicle introducer is loaded with the at least one hair follicle and then operated using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one hair follicle..]. .[.20. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the at least one hair follicle is loaded into the hair follicle introducer using a substantially automated process..]. .[.21. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the robotic arm is moved to place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.22. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.23. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 22, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.24. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.25. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 24, wherein the video system is used for planning a desired location for the at least one hair follicle to be implanted in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.26. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 25, wherein, in planning the desired location for the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to calculate a distance between a plurality of hair follicles to be implanted in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.27. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 25, wherein, in planning the desired location for the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to plan a random distribution of a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.28. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 24, wherein the video system is used to determine an angular disposition of the at least one hair follicle with respect to the patient's scalp..]. .[.29. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 24, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.30. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 29, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.31. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 29, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.32. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 29, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.33. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 29, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional spacing of a location the at least one hair follicle is to be implanted..]. .[.34. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 33, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration is used to move the robotic arm and place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.35. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 29, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.36. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. .[.37. A hair transplantation apparatus for implanting at least one hair follicle into a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle introducer associated with the first end of the robotic arm, the robot being capable of registering a position of the introducer with at least a portion of the patient's scalp under consideration so that the position of the introducer is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration, and the robotic arm is moved to place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process; and the hair follicle introducer is loaded with the at least one hair follicle and then operated using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one hair follicle..]. .[.38. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one hair follicle is loaded into the hair follicle introducer using a substantially automated process..]. .[.39. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.40. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 39, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.41. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.42. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 41, wherein the video system is used for planning a desired location for the at least one hair follicle to be implanted in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.43. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 42, wherein, in planning the desired location of the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to calculate a distance between a plurality of hair follicles to be implanted in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.44. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 42, wherein, in planning the desired location of the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to plan a random distribution of a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.45. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 41, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.46. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.47. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.48. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.49. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional spacing of a location the at least one hair follicle is to be implanted..]. .[.50. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.51. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. .[.52. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting at least one hair follicle from a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle plug cutting device associated with the first end of the robotic arm, the robot being capable of registering a position of the plug cutting device with at least a portion of the patient's scalp under consideration so that the position of the plug cutting device is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration, and the robotic arm is moved to place the plug cutting device proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process; and the plug cutting device being operated using a substantially automated process to harvest the at least one hair follicle..]. .[.53. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, wherein the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration is a flap that has been removed from the patient's scalp..]. .[.54. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.55. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 54, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.56. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.57. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 56, wherein the video system is used for mapping locations of existing hair follicles on the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.58. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 57, wherein the video system is used to determine the angular disposition of the at least one hair follicle with respect to the patient's scalp..]. .[.59. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 56, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.60. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.61. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.62. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.63. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a location and three-dimensional spacing of the at least one hair follicle to be harvested..]. .[.64. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.65. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated to harvest a follicular unit..]. .[.66. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 65, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.67. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 65, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.68. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting at least one hair follicle and implanting the at least one hair follicle from/into a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; an instrument holder associated with the first end of the robotic arm; a hair plug cutting device associated with the instrument holder, the robot being adjustably maneuverable so that the plug cutting device is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; the plug cutting device being operated using a substantially automated process to harvest the at least one hair follicle from a first location of the patient's scalp; a hair follicle introducer associated with the instrument holder, the robot being adjustably maneuverable so that the introducer is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; and the hair follicle introducer being operated using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one hair follicle into a second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.69. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the plug cutting device and the hair follicle introducer are the same device..]. .[.70. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the robotic arm is moved to place the plug cutting device and the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.71. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.72. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 71, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.73. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.74. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 73, wherein the video system is used for mapping the first location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.75. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 74, wherein the video system is used to determine the angular disposition of the at least one hair follicle with respect to the patient's scalp..]. .[.76. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 73, wherein the video system is used for planning the second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.77. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 76, wherein, in planning the second location, the video system is used to calculate a distance between the second location and a plurality of additional locations hair follicles are to be implanted in the patient's scalp..]. .[.78. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 73, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.79. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.80. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.81. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.82. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the first location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.83. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 82, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the first location is used to move the robotic arm and place the plug cutting device proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.84. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.85. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 84, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the second location is used to move the robotic arm and place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.86. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.87. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. .[.88. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated to harvest a follicular unit..]. .[.89. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 88, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.90. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 88, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.91. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting at least one hair follicle and implanting the at least one hair follicle from/into a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; an instrument holder associated with the first end of the robotic arm; a hair follicle plug cutting device associated with the instrument holder, the robot being capable of registering a position of the plug cutting device with a first location of the patient's scalp so that the position of the plug cutting device is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the first location, and the robotic arm is moved to place the plug cutting device proximate the first location using a substantially automated process; the plug cutting device being operated using a substantially automated process to harvest the at least one hair follicle; a hair follicle introducer associated with the instrument holder, the robot being capable of registering a position of the introducer with a second location of the patient's scalp so that the position of the introducer is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the second location, and the robotic arm is moved to place the introducer proximate the second location using a substantially automated process; and the hair follicle introducer is loaded with the at least one hair follicle and then operated using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one hair follicle..]. .[.92. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the plug cutting device and the hair follicle introducer are the same device..]. .[.93. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.94. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 93, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.95. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.96. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 95, wherein the video system is used for mapping the first location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.97. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 95, wherein the video system is used for planning the second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.98. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 95, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.99. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.100. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.101. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.102. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the first location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.103. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.104. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system simultaneously displays the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.105. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the at least one hair follicle is loaded into the hair follicle introducer using a substantially automated process..]. .[.106. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. .[.107. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated to harvest a follicular unit..]. .[.108. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 107, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.109. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 107, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. .Iadd.110. A method of planning transplantation of hair grafts, comprising: using an imaging system to identify a location of individual hair follicles on a surface containing hair follicles; and selecting from the identified hair follicles a hair graft for harvesting based on a user-specified parameter, wherein selecting is accomplished at least in part with the use of a computer program..Iaddend. .Iadd.111. The method of claim 110, wherein the user-specified parameter is every Nth hair follicle..Iaddend. .Iadd.112. The method of claim 110, wherein the user-specified parameter comprises reserving hair follicles that are within a user-specified region of interest..Iaddend. .Iadd.113. The method of claim 110, wherein identifying and selecting hair follicles are computer implemented..Iaddend. .Iadd.114. The method of claim 110, further comprising acquiring one or more images of the location from which hair follicles are to be harvested..Iaddend. .Iadd.115. The method of claim 110, further comprising harvesting the selected hair graft wherein harvesting is at least partially computer controlled..Iaddend. .Iadd.116. A system for planning transplantation of hair grafts, comprising: a computer programmed to receive an image of a surface containing hair follicles, the image being acquired by an image acquisition device; record locations of individual hair follicles in the image, the hair follicles being previously identified; and carry out selection of one or more of the identified hair follicles for harvesting based on a user-specified parameter..Iaddend. .Iadd.117. The system of claim 116, further comprising a display coupled to the computer for displaying the locations and/or intended distribution of hair follicles..Iaddend. .Iadd.118. The system of claim 116, wherein the computer is further programmed to assist in planning implantation locations and display an image simulating an appearance of hair follicles being implanted in the implantation locations..Iaddend. .Iadd.119. The system of claim 116, further comprising an image acquisition device, including a camera..Iaddend. .Iadd.120. The system of claim 116, wherein the computer is associated with a robotic hair transplantation system..Iaddend. .Iadd.121. The system of claim 118, wherein the computer is further programmed to determine an angle of insertion of a hair follicle to be implanted..Iaddend. .Iadd.122. The system of claim 121, wherein the computer is programmed to gradually adjust the angle of insertion from one region to another..Iaddend. .Iadd.123. The method of claim 110, wherein said using an imaging system to identify a location of individual hair follicles comprises determining three-dimensional coordinates of the hair follicles..Iaddend. .Iadd.124. The method of claim 110, wherein the method is used in conjunction with a robotic hair transplantation procedure..Iaddend. .Iadd.125. The method of claim 110, further comprising determining an angular disposition of the hair follicles..Iaddend. .Iadd.126. The method of claim 110, further comprising plotting hair graft implantation locations based upon the location of the hair follicles..Iaddend. .Iadd.127. The method of claim 126, further comprising displaying an image simulating a distribution of the hair follicles and plotted hair grafts..Iaddend. .Iadd.128. A method of planning transplantation of hair grafts, comprising: identifying a plurality of individual hair follicles from data obtained by an imaging system; and selecting from the plurality of hair follicles based on a user-specified parameter an individual hair graft to be harvested, wherein selecting is accomplished at least in part using a processor programmed to carry out a user-specified selection..Iaddend. .Iadd.129. The method of claim 128, wherein the user-specified parameter is every Nth hair follicle..Iaddend. .Iadd.130. The method of claim 128, wherein the user-specified parameter comprises reserving hair follicles that are within a user-specified region of interest..Iaddend. .Iadd.131. The method of claim 128, wherein identifying and selecting are computer implemented..Iaddend. .Iadd.132. The method of claim 128, further comprising acquiring one or more images of a location from which hair grafts are to be harvested..Iaddend. .Iadd.133. The method of claim 128, further comprising harvesting the selected hair grafts..Iaddend. .Iadd.134. The method of claim 128, further comprising mapping locations and three-dimensional coordinates of the plurality of hair follicles..Iaddend. .Iadd.135. The method of claim 128, wherein the method is used in conjunction with a robotic hair transplantation procedure..Iaddend. 