Compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of STAT5. The compositions comprise oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acid encoding STAT5. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of STAT5 expression and for diagnosis and treatment of diseases and conditions associated with expression of STAT5 are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides and having a nucleobase sequence comprising at least 8 consecutive nucleobases of the nucleobase sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 77, wherein said nucleobase sequence of said oligonucleotide is at least 90% complementary to the nucleobase sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4. 2. The compound of claim 1, wherein the modified oligonucleotide is a single-stranded oligonucleotide. 3. The compound of claim 2, wherein the nucleobase sequence of the modified oligonucleotide is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4. 4. The compound of claim 2, wherein at least one internucleoside linkage is a modified internucleoside linkage. 5. The compound of claim 4, wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 6. The compound of claim 2, wherein at least one nucleoside comprises a modified sugar. 7. The compound of claim 6, wherein at least one modified sugar comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl. 8. The compound of claim 6, wherein the modified sugar comprises a bicyclic sugar moiety. 9. The compound of claim 2, wherein at least one nucleoside comprises a modified nucleobase. 10. The compound of claim 9, wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 11. The compound of claim 2, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 12. The compound of claim 11, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting often linked deoxynucteosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar, wherein each cytosine in said modified oligonucleotide is a 5-methylcytosine, and wherein each internucleoside linkage of said modified oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate linkage. 13. The compound of claim 12, wherein the modified oligonucleotide consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 14. The compound of claim 13, wherein said nucleobase sequence of said oligonucleotide consists of SEQ ID NO: 77. 15. The compound of claim 1, wherein said nucleobase sequence of said oligonucleotide is at least 95% complementary to the nucleobase sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4. 16. The compound of claim 1, wherein said nucleobase sequence of said oligonucleotide is at least 99% complementary to the nucleobase sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4. 17. The compound of claim 1, wherein said modified oligonucleotide consists of 15 to 30 linked nucleosides. 18. The compound of claim 2, wherein the modified oligonucleotide consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 19. A composition comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 30 linked nucleosides and having a nucleobase sequence comprising at least 8 consecutive nucleobases of the nucleobase sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 77, wherein said nucleobase sequence of said oligonucleotide is at least 90% complementary to the nucleobase sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:4, or a pharmaceutically salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 20. The composition of claim 19, wherein said modified obligonucleotide consists of a single-stranded oligonucleotide. 21. The composition of claim 19, wherein the modified oligonucleotide consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 22. The compound of claim 6, wherein at least one modified sugar comprises a 4' (CH.sub.2).sub.n-O-2' bridge, wherein n is 1 or 2. 