The present invention provides double stranded compositions that have a region that is complementary to a target nucleic acid. One of the targeting strand or the second strand comprises linked ribofuranosyl nucleosides and the other strand comprises linked modified nucleosides that have 3'-endo conformational geometry. The strands can be linked together or separate and may contain additional groups. The present invention also provides methods of using the compositions for modulating gene expression.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composition comprising a first oligomeric compound and a second oligomeric compound, wherein: the first oligomeric compound is complementary to and capable of hybridizing to the second oligomeric compound and to a selected target nucleic acid; the first oligomeric compound is a compound of the formula: 5'-(N.sub.f).sub.5(N.sub.m).sub.2(N.sub.f).sub.2(N.sub.m).sub.2(N.sub.f).- sub.5-6(N.sub.m).sub.3-3' wherein: each N.sub.f is a 2'-F modified nucleoside; each N.sub.m is a 2'-OCH.sub.3 modified nucleoside; and at least one of the 2'-fluoro modified nucleosides comprises a purine heterocyclic base; each of the first and second oligomeric compounds independently comprises from about 12 to about 30 nucleosides; and the composition optionally further comprises one or more phosphate groups, overhangs, stabilizing groups or conjugate groups. 2. The composition of claim 1 wherein each of the nucleosides of the second oligomeric compound comprise a .beta.-D-ribofuranose sugar group. 3. The composition of claim 1 wherein the 3'-terminus of the first oligomeric compound comprises a stabilizing group. 4. The composition of claim 3 wherein the stabilizing group is a capping group or a dTdT dimer. 5. The composition of claim 1 wherein the first oligomeric compound comprises a 5'-phosphate group. 6. The composition of claim 1 wherein each of the internucleoside linking groups of the first and second oligomeric compounds is, independently, a phosphodiester or a phosphorothioate. 7. The composition of claim 1 wherein the 3'-terminus of the second oligomeric compound comprises a stabilizing or conjugate group. 8. The composition of claim 7 wherein the stabilizing group is a capping group or a dTdT dimer. 9. The composition of claim 7 wherein the 3'-terminus of the second oligomeric compound comprises a conjugate group. 10. The composition of claim 1 wherein each of the nucleosides of the second oligomeric compound has 3'-endo conformational geometry. 11. The composition of claim 10 wherein each of the nucleosides that has 3'-endo conformational geometry comprises a 2'-substituent group independently selected from --F, --O--CH.sub.2CH.sub.2--O--CH.sub.3, --O--CH.sub.3, --O--(CH.sub.2).sub.2--O--N(Rj)(Rj), --O--(CH.sub.2).sub.2--O--(CH.sub.2).sub.2--N(Rj)(Rj), --O--CH.sub.2--C(.dbd.O)--N(Rj)(Rj), --O--CH.sub.2--CH.dbd.CH.sub.2, and --O--(CH.sub.2).sub.3--NH(R.sub.j), where each R.sub.j is, independently, H or C.sub.1-C.sub.10 alkyl. 12. The composition of claim 1 wherein the first and the second oligomeric compounds are a complementary pair of siRNA oligonucleotides. 13. The composition of claim 12 wherein the first and the second oligomeric compounds have 3'-dTdT overhangs. 14. The composition of claim 12 wherein the first and the second oligomeric compounds have blunt ends. 15. The composition of claim 1 further comprising at least one terminal cap moiety. 16. The composition of claim 15 wherein the terminal cap moiety is attached to one or both of the 3'-terminal and 5'-terminal ends of the second oligomeric compound. 17. The composition of claim 16 wherein the terminal cap moiety is an inverted deoxy abasic moiety. 18. The composition of claim 1 wherein each of the first and second oligomeric compounds has from about 12 to about 24 nucleosides. 19. The composition of claim 1 wherein each of the first and second oligomeric compounds has from about 19 to about 23 nucleosides. 20. A method of reducing target messenger RNA comprising contacting one or more cells, a tissue or an animal with a composition of claim 1. 