A golf swing training system that straps to the rear or trailing arm of the golfer and guides movement of that arm to correctly delay release of the golf club on the downswing until the trailing arm bicep is approximately pointing toward the ground. A servo motor locks the trailing arm at the elbow from extension near the top of the backswing as the trailing arm reaches its fully bent position preventing premature club release during the initial downswing, and releases the elbow when the upper arm reaches a near vertical position on the downswing. The entire system is controlled by an on-board microprocessor encoded by input angle signals of the trailing arm bending movement adapted to the swing cycle of the individual golfer under study.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing, comprising: a brace for the golfer's rear upper arm, a brace for the golfer's rear lower arm, and a servo motor between the golfer's rear upper arm brace and the golfer's rear lower arm brace, said servo motor delaying the release of the golfer's lower arm with respect to the golfer's upper arm during the downswing. 2. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 1, wherein the servo motor guides the golfer's lower arm through a pattern of movement relative to the upper arm. 3. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 1, wherein the servo motor limits extension of the lower arm relative to the upper arm during the downswing. 4. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 1, wherein the servo motor includes an angle encoder. 5. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 4, wherein the angle encoder measures the angles between the upper arm brace and the lower arm brace. 6. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 1, wherein the servo motor brakes angular movement of the lower arm brace away from the upper arm brace during the downswing. 7. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 1, including a microprocessor carried on board in the system either on the upper brace or the lower brace programmed to control the servo motor. 8. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 7, wherein the microprocessor has an angle input from the relative angular position of the lower arm brace to the upper arm brace. 9. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing, comprising: a brace for the golfer's rear upper arm, a brace for the golfer's rear lower arm, and a rotational brake between the upper arm brace and the lower arm brace, said brake delaying the release of the golfer's lower arm with respect to the golfer's upper arm during the downswing. 10. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 9, wherein the rear arm has an elbow and the brake is an electromagnetic brake positioned approximately at the rear arm elbow. 11. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 10, wherein the electromagnetic brake has an axially movable armature plate. 12. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 11, wherein the armature plate has a plurality of radial serrations to increase braking force. 13. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 9, including an angle encoder mounted on the brake to measure the angular relation between the upper arm brace and the lower arm brace. 14. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 9, including a microprocessor carried on board the system, for controlling activation of the brake. 15. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 9, including means for activating the brake after sensing an extension of the lower arm brace from the upper arm brace. 16. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing, comprising: a brace for the golfer's rear upper arm, a brace for the golfer's rear lower arm, and control means between the upper arm brace and the lower arm brace for dictating movement of the lower arm brace relative to the upper arm brace during the downswing, said control means delaying the release of the golfer's lower arm with respect to the golfer's upper arm during the downswing. 17. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 16, wherein the control means delays the release of the lower arm brace from the upper arm brace during the downswing, said control means preventing movement of the lower arm brace with respect to the upper arm brace during a portion of the downswing. 18. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 17, wherein the control means during the backswing-downswing transition prevents extension of the lower arm brace from the upper arm brace. 19. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing as defined in claim 18, wherein the control means releases the lower arm brace from the upper arm brace as the upper arm brace nears or achieves a downward vertical position during the downswing. 20. A swing training system for a golfer's rear trailing arm of a golfer having a forward arm and a rear arm, each having an upper arm and a lower arm, during a golf swing including a backswing and a downswing, comprising: a brace for the golfer's rear upper arm, a brace for the golfer's rear lower arm, control means between the upper arm brace and the lower arm brace for preventing extension of the lower arm brace from the upper arm brace during an initial period of the downswing and permitting extension of the lower arm brace from the upper arm brace during the appropriate club release position of the downswing. 