Various embodiments described in the application relate to an apparatus, system, and method for generating, within a conduit, discrete volumes of one or more fluids that are immiscible with a second fluid. The discrete volumes can be used for biochemical or molecular biology procedures involving small volumes, for example, microliter-sized volumes, nanoliter-sized volumes, or smaller. The system can comprise an apparatus comprising at least one conduit operatively connected to one or more pumps for providing discrete volumes separated from one another by a fluid that is immiscible with the fluid(s) of the discrete volumes, for example, aqueous immiscible-fluid-discrete volumes separated by an oil.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: providing a first fluid disposed in a container having a bottom; ejecting a volume of a second fluid from a through-hole in the container bottom, thereby forming a first droplet of the second fluid in the first fluid, which first droplet rises in the first fluid relative to an intake tip of a conduit such that the first droplet is disposed adjacent the intake tip, wherein the first fluid and the second fluid are immiscible with respect to one another and the second fluid is less dense than the first fluid; moving at least one of the first droplet and an intake tip of a conduit relative to one another such that the first droplet is disposed adjacent the intake tip when ejected; and drawing the first droplet and an amount of the first fluid through the intake tip and into the conduit. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming in the first fluid a second droplet of a third fluid that is miscible with the second fluid; and merging the second droplet with the first droplet, thereby forming a merged droplet of first and third fluid, before the drawing step, wherein the drawing comprises drawing the merged droplet through the intake tip and into the conduit. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first fluid is an oil and the second fluid is an aqueous fluid. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second fluid comprises a primer, a sample, or both. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said moving comprises rotating a carousel mechanism comprising: a drive hub connected to a rotary motor; an oil reservoir on a top surface of the carousel mechanism and containing the first fluid; at least one pump cavity on a bottom surface of the carousel mechanism and configured to conduct the second fluid to the through-hole; and at least one actuator operable to drive a volume of the second fluid out of the at least one pump cavity for delivery via a nozzle, conduit, or channel comprising the through-hole in the container bottom. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said drawing comprises pulling a vacuum on content of the conduit by pumping action. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the first and second droplets comprises primer and the other droplet comprises a sample. 8. A method comprising: forming a first droplet of a second fluid on a film; submersing the film in a first fluid, wherein the first fluid and the second fluid are immiscible with respect to one another and the second fluid has a greater density than the first fluid; moving at least one of the first droplet and an intake tip of a conduit relative to one another such that the first droplet is disposed adjacent the intake tip when ejected; and drawing the first droplet and an amount of the first fluid through the intake tip and into the conduit. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the first fluid is an oil and the second fluid is an aqueous fluid. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the second fluid comprises a primer, a sample, or both. 