A magnetic on-off robotic attachment device (MOORAD) (100, 300, 400, 624, 624', 660, 676, 804) is used to make a number of systems, such as a mobile apparatus (608, 644, 668, 700, 700'), a belt mechanism (800) and a sensor device (504, 508, 656). The MOORAD allows the respective system to be removably magnetically attached to a ferromagnetic structure/object (228, 420, 604, 604', 720A-B, 720A'-B', 848). Each MOORAD generally includes a dipole magnet (104, 304A-B, 404) movable relative to first and second ferromagnetic portions (112, 116, 316A-D, 408, 412) that are separated by corresponding magnetically insulating portions (120, 320A-C, 416) so as to change that MOORAD between off and on states.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A magnetic on-off attachment device, comprising: a) a first ferromagnetic portion; b) a second ferromagnetic portion; c) a magnetic insulator magnetically isolating said first ferromagnetic portion from said second ferromagnetic portion; d) a dipole magnet movable relative to each of said first and second ferromagnetic portions so as to provide the magnetic on-off attachment device with an on state in which the magnetic on-off attachment device has a maximum magnetic attraction to a ferromagnetic body that is not part of the magnetic on-off attachment device and with an off state in which the magnetic on-off attachment device has a minimum magnetic attraction to the ferromagnetic body; and e) an actuating mechanism operatively coupled to said dipole magnet so as to move said dipole magnet relative to each of said first and second ferromagnetic portions in response to an actuating signal so as to alternatingly switch the magnetic on-off attachment device between the on state and the off state. 2. A magnetic on-off attachment device according to claim 1, wherein said dipole magnet is linearly movable relative to said first and second ferromagnetic portions and said actuating mechanism is operatively configured to move said dipole magnet in a linear manner. 3. A magnetic on-off attachment device according to claim 1, wherein said first ferromagnetic portion is nested with said second ferromagnetic portion. 4. A magnetic on-off attachment device according to claim 1, wherein said dipole magnet is rotatably movable relative to said first and second ferromagnetic portions and said actuating mechanism is operatively configured to rotate said dipole magnet. 5. A magnetic on-off attachment device according to claim 1, wherein said actuating signal is an electrical signal. 6. A magnetic on-off attachment device according to claim 1, wherein said actuating signal is one of the following: an optical signal, a pneumatic signal, a hydraulic signal, a sonic signal and an ultrasonic signal. 7. A magnetic on-off attachment device according to claim 1, comprising a plurality of dipole magnets, each movable by said actuating mechanism. 8. A sensor system, comprising: a) at least one sensor operatively configured to convert one or more physical occurrences into a signal; and b) a magnetic on-off attachment device attached to said at least one sensor for releasably magnetically securing said at least one sensor to a ferromagnetic structure, said magnetic on-off attachment device including: i) a first ferromagnetic portion; ii) a second ferromagnetic portion; iii) a magnetic insulator magnetically isolating said first ferromagnetic portion from said second ferromagnetic portion; iv) a dipole magnet movable relative to each of said first and second ferromagnetic portions so as to provide the magnetic on-off attachment device with an on state in which the magnetic on-off attachment device has a magnetic attraction to a ferromagnetic body that is not part of the magnetic on-off attachment device and with an off state in which the magnetic on-off attachment device has substantially no magnetic attraction to the ferromagnetic body; and v) an actuating mechanism operatively coupled to said dipole magnet so as to move said dipole magnet relative to each of said first and second ferromagnetic portions so as to alternatingly switch said magnetic on-off attachment device between the on state and the off state. 9. A sensor system according to claim 8, wherein said actuating system is responsive to a control system. 10. A sensor system according to claim 8, wherein said dipole magnet is linearly movable relative to said first and second ferromagnetic portions and said actuating mechanism is operatively configured to move said dipole magnet in a linear manner. 11. A sensor system according to claim 8, wherein said dipole magnet is rotatably movable relative to said first and second ferromagnetic portions and said actuating mechanism is operatively configured to rotate said dipole magnet. 12. A sensor system according to claim 8, further comprising a mobile apparatus operatively configured to deploy said at least one sensor and said magnetic on-off attachment device from said mobile apparatus, said mobile apparatus comprising a mobility system that includes a plurality of magnetic on-off robotic attachment devices. 13. A sensor system according to claim 12, wherein said mobile apparatus is further configured to retrieve said sensor in combination with said magnetic on-off attachment device by turning off said magnetic on-off attachment device and moving said sensor in combination with said magnetic on-off attachment device from a location on the ferromagnetic structure to the mobile apparatus. 14. A sensor system according to claim 12, wherein said mobile apparatus is configured to deploy said sensor in combination with said magnetic on-off attachment device by moving said sensor in combination with said magnetic on-off attachment device from said mobile apparatus to a desired location on the ferromagnetic structure and turning on said magnetic on-off attachment device. 15. A sensor system according to claim 14, wherein said mobile apparatus is further configured to retrieve said sensor in combination with said magnetic on-off attachment device by turning off said magnetic on-off attachment device and moving said sensor in combination with said magnetic on-off attachment device from the location on the ferromagnetic structure to the mobile apparatus. 