Systems and processes are provided for safely facilitating transfer of down-hole devices through an adaptive seal assembly capping a well under pressure. At least one dynamic seal is provided having a size and shape to accommodate varying cross section of an elongated down-hole device, such as a logging tool. The adaptive seal assembly includes a mating flange for coupling its open end to a reversibly sealable wellhead fixture. A pressure is maintained along a wellbore side of the reversible seal, while the aperture is varied according to the varying cross section of the down-hole device as it is translated along the axis. More than one dynamic seals can be actuated in a controlled sequence to apply axial thrust in a preferred direction to the tool. One or more robotic systems can be provided to further expedite manipulation of at least one of the tool and the vessel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transferring a down-hole device across an open end of a well under pressure, comprising: attaching one end of an adaptive seal assembly that includes one or more dynamic seal elements; the adaptive seal assembly accessible at both ends and defining a passage therethrough, to the open end of the well under pressure; positioning the down-hole device at least partially within the passage defined by the adaptive seal assembly; sealing an interior region defined between an interior surface of a housing of the adaptive seal assembly and an adjacent periphery of the down-hole device by providing at least one adjustable annulus disposed within an interior region of the housing and within a plane perpendicular to a wellbore axis; adjusting the adjustable annulus between open and closed configurations, wherein a seal between the interior surface of the enclosed side wall and an adjacent periphery of the down-hole device is obtained by the closed configuration, whereby an elevated wellbore pressure is maintainable on one side of the adjustable annulus against atmospheric pressure on another side of the annulus; applying an axial force to a proximal end of the down-hole device, wherein the down-hole device is translatable by application of the axial force through the open end of the well under pressure; automatically readjusting the seal between the housing and the down-hole device responsive to cross sectional variations of the down-hole device, wherein pressure isolation is maintained as the down-hole device is translated; and wherein adjusting the adjustable annulus comprises automatically controlling an actuator configured to adjust the adjustable annulus between open and closed configurations, an external perimeter of the adjustable annulus remaining constant during adjustment, while an internal perimeter of the adjustable annulus dimensionally varies during adjustment. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the act of applying axial force comprises applying a compressional force introducing the down-hole device into the open end of the well under pressure. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the act of applying axial force comprises applying a tensional force extracting the down-hole device from the open end of the well under pressure. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the act of applying the axial force comprises: coupling a distal end of a mechanical linkage to the proximal end of the down-hole device; and activating a mechanical linkage thrust unit configured to translate the distal end of the mechanical linkage along the wellbore axis. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising sensing a pressure exerted between an edge of the internal perimeter of the adjustable annulus and the adjacent periphery of the down-hole device. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising controlling the actuator configured to adjust the adjustable annulus responsive to the sensed pressure exerted between the edge of the internal perimeter of the adjustable annulus and the adjacent periphery of the down-hole device, wherein the pressure exerted therebetween is maintainable by the adjustment within a tolerance during translation of the down-hole device. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transferring the down-hole device between a storage location and the open end of the well under pressure; and positioning the down-hole device relative to the open end of the well under pressure, wherein at least one of the acts of transferring and positioning is accomplished using a robotic manipulator. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the act of applying axial force comprises: clamping the down-hole device with respect to the housing at a first axial position using a first dynamic clamping device; and translating the first dynamic clamping device along the wellbore axis, wherein the clamped down-hole device is also translated along a wellbore axis. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: clamping the down-hole device with respect to a frame at a second axial position using a second dynamic clamping device; and unclamping the first dynamic clamping device; and translating the second dynamic clamping device along the wellbore axis, wherein the clamped down-hole device is further translated along the wellbore axis. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising translating the unclamped first dynamic clamping device in an opposite direction along the wellbore axis with respect to the second dynamic clamping device. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the act of sealing comprises sealingly clamping the entire periphery of the down-hole device using at least one of the first and second dynamic clamping devices. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the act of applying the axial force comprises: configuring a plurality of axially arranged transverse dynamic seal elements to form an axially directed annular wave with respect to the periphery of the down-hole device; entrapping a fluid in an annular region between the dynamic seal elements and the down-hole device; and sequencing opening and closing of at least some of the plurality of axially arranged transverse dynamic seal elements to translate the axially directed annular wave along the wellbore axis. 13. An apparatus for transferring a down-hole device across an open end of a well under pressure, comprising: a housing having an enclosed side wall open at both ends and defining a passage therethrough; a mounting flange at one end of a frame configured for securely mounting the frame in relation to the open end of the well under pressure; at least more than one dynamic seal elements spaced apart along a wellbore axis and positioned within an interior region defined between an interior surface of the enclosed side wall and a respective adjacent periphery of the down-hole device, each of the more than one dynamic seal elements configured to independently seal a respective interior region between the interior surface of the enclosed side wall and a respective adjacent periphery of the down-hole device at an elevated wellbore pressure and atmospheric pressure; and an actuator configured to adjust the at least more than one dynamic seal element between open and closed configurations, a sealing engagement being provided in the closed configuration. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein each of the at least more than one dynamic seal elements comprises a respective adjustable annulus operable between open and closed configurations, each respective adjustable annulus having a dimensionally variable internal perimeter configured to seal a respective periphery of the down-hole device with respect to the interior surface of the housing in its respective closed configuration. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein at least one of the adjustable annuli defines an interior edge comprising a compliant material configured for sealing engagement between the respective dynamic adjustable annulus and the respective periphery of the down-hole device. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a sensor configured to monitor an indication of the sealing engagement between the interior edge of the annulus and the periphery of the down-hole device. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising a controller in communication with the sensor and the actuator, the controller configured to adjust the adjustable annulus to a closed configuration by an amount to ensure a sealing engagement between the interior edge of the annulus; and the periphery of the down-hole device is maintained within a pressure range during translation of the down-hole device. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein each of the more than one dynamic seal elements comprises a respective adjustable annulus independently operable between open and closed configurations, each adjustable annulus configured to seal against different respective diameter range of periphery of the down-hole device. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein each of the more than one the adjustable annuli defines a respective interior edge comprising a compliant material positioned thereon for sealing engagement between the adjustable annulus and the respective adjacent periphery of the down-hole device. 20. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a robotic manipulator for accomplishing at least one of transferring the down-hole device between a storage location and the open end of the well under pressure, and positioning the down-hole device with respect to the open end of the well under pressure. 21. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising an integral thrust unit configured to translate the down-hole device across the open end of the well under pressure. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the integral thrust unit comprises: a first clamping device configured to clamp the down-hole device to the housing at a first axial position; and a first actuator configured to translate the first clamping device along the wellbore axis, wherein the clamped down-hole device is also translated along the wellbore axis, when clamped by the first clamping device. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the integral thrust unit further comprises: a second clamping device configured to clamp the down-hole device to the housing at a second axial position; and a second actuator configured to translate the second clamping device along the wellbore axis, wherein the clamped down-hole device is further translated along the wellbore axis, when clamped by the second clamping device. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein at least one of the first and second clamping devices comprises a compliant surface for sealing against the periphery of the down-hole device. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the compliant surface comprises more than one layer of different material each providing a different respective compliance. 26. A system for transferring a down-hole device across an open end of a well under pressure, comprising: means for attaching one end of an adaptive seal assembly that includes one or more dynamic seal element; the adaptive seal assembly accessible at both ends and defining a passage therethrough, to the open end of the well under pressure; means for positioning the down-hole device at least partially within the passage defined by the adaptive seal assembly; means for sealing an interior region defined between an interior surface of an enclosed side wall and an adjacent periphery of the down-hole device, whereby an elevated wellbore pressure within the well under pressure is isolated from ambient pressure; means for providing an adjustable annulus disposed within an interior region of the housing and within a plane perpendicular to a wellbore axis; means for adjusting the adjustable annulus between open and closed configurations, wherein a seal between the interior surface of the enclosed side wall and an adjacent periphery of the down-hole device is obtained by the closed configuration, whereby the elevated wellbore pressure is maintainable on one side of the adjustable annulus against atmospheric pressure on another side of the annulus; means for automatically controlling an actuator configured to adjust the adjustable annulus between open and closed configurations; an external perimeter of the adjustable annulus remaining constant during adjustment, while an internal perimeter of the adjustable annulus dimensionally varies during adjustment; means for applying an axial force to a proximal end of the down-hole device, wherein the down-hole device is translatable by application of the axial force through the open end of the well under pressure; and means for automatically readjusting the seal between the housing and the down-hole device responsive to cross sectional variations of the down-hole device, wherein pressure isolation is maintained as the down-hole device is translated. 