A hybrid mobile robot includes a base link and a second link. The base link has a drive system and is adapted to function as a traction device and a turret. The second link is attached to the base link at a first joint. The second link has a drive system and is adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation. In another embodiment an invertible robot includes at least one base link and a second link. In another embodiment a mobile robot includes a chassis and a track drive pulley system including a tension and suspension mechanism. In another embodiment a mobile robot includes a wireless communication system.
Claims What is claimed as the invention is: 1. A hybrid mobile robot comprising: a base link, wherein the base link includes a right base link and a left base link, wherein each of the right and left base links have a drive system, and the right base link and the left base link are spaced apart, the base link adapted to function as a traction device and a turret; a second link attached to the base link at a first joint, the second link having a drive system and being adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation; a third link attached to the second link at a second joint; and a pair of collinear wheel tracks located between the second link and the third link, wherein each of the drive systems of the left and right base links is one of a pulley and track system having a front pulley, a back pulley and a track, and a wheel drive system. 2. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the third link includes a drive system and being adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation. 3. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 2, wherein the second link includes multiple links and wherein the third link further comprises an end effector attached to the end of the third link. 4. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 1 wherein the base link includes a right base link and a left base link each having a drive system and the right base link and the left base link are spaced apart. 5. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 3 wherein the second link has a stowed position, and when the second link is in a stowed position it is nested between the left base link and the right base link and the third link has a stowed position such that when the third link is in a stowed position the third link is nested in the second link. 6. A hybrid mobile robot comprising: a base link having a drive system the base link adapted to function as a traction device and a turret; and a second link attached to the base link at a first joint, the second link having a drive system and being adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation; at least one end link attached to the second link at a second joint, the end link having a drive system and being adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation; and an end effector attached to the end link, wherein the second link includes multiple links, wherein the base link includes a right base link and a left base link such that the right base link and the left base link are spaced apart and the second link has a stowed position, and further wherein the second link is nested between the left base link and the right base link, and further wherein the end link has a stowed position such that the end link is nested in the second link, and wherein the first joint is a revolute joint and the second link is pivotal around 360 degrees continuously and the second joint is a revolute joint and the end link is pivotal around 360 degrees continuously. 7. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 6 further including wheels or a traction means attached to one of the first joint, the second joint, and each of the first and second joint. 8. A hybrid mobile robot comprising: a base link, wherein the base link includes a right base link and a left base link, wherein each of the right and left base links have a drive system and the right base link and the left base link are spaced apart, the base link adapted to function as a traction device and a turret; and a second link attached to the base link at a first joint, the second link having a drive system and being adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation, wherein each drive system of the left and right base links is one of a pulley and track system having a front pulley, a back pulley and a track, and a wheel drive system. 9. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 8 wherein the track has a rib and each pulley has a guide and the rib fits into each guide and wherein each track further includes a plurality of top and bottom spaced apart planetary supporting pulleys, each planetary supporting pulley further includes a tension and suspension mechanism and each tension and suspension mechanism includes a compression spring seated in a spring housing and wherein the tension and suspension mechanism restricts an upward and a downward displacement to a predetermined value. 10. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 3 further including comprising: a base link having a drive system the base link adapted to function as a traction device and a turret; a second link attached to the base link at a first joint, the second link having a drive system and being adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation; at least one end link attached to the second link at a second joint, the end link having a drive system and being adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation; and a central wireless communication module system for communication with an operator control unit, wherein the second link includes multiple links and further including an end effector attached to the end link. 11. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 10 wherein the central wireless system controls motors that drive a propulsion and manipulation system with an internal wireless system. 12. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 11 wherein the central wireless system further controls the end effector system through the internal wireless system. 13. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 12 wherein each base link further includes a rounded pliable side cover and further including a flat antenna imbedded inside one of the side covers for wireless data communication between the central wireless system and the operator control unit and a second flat antenna imbedded inside the other of the side covers for wireless audio and video communication with the operator control unit. 14. A hybrid mobile robot comprising: a base link having a drive system the base link adapted to function as a traction device and a turret; a second link attached to the base link at a first joint, the second link having a drive system and being adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation; at least one end link attached to the second link at a second joint, the end link having a drive system and being adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation; and an end effector attached to the end link, wherein the second link includes multiple links, wherein the robot is invertible and the configuration of the links is chosen from the group consisting of the right and left base links being spaced apart and the second link being substantially the same length as the base links; the right base link being spaced from and connected to the left base link at the front and the back thereof and the second link being shorter than the base links and in the stowed position is nested between the right base link and the left base link; the base link including a right base link and a left base link aligned proximate to each other, the second link being attached to a side of one of the right base link or the left base link and the end link being attached to one of the second link at a second joint, and the other of the right base link and the left base link; and at least one base link is a first base link and further including a second base link and the first and second base link are pivotal with respect to one another. 15. An invertible mobile robot comprising: a base link, wherein the base link includes a right base link and a left base link, wherein each of the right and left base links have a drive system and the right base link and the left base link are spaced apart, the base link adapted to function as a traction device and a turret; and a second link attached to the base link at a first joint, the second link having a drive system and being adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation, wherein the right and left base links collectively define an upper and a lower plane the second link having a stowed position and itself defining an upper and lower plane, wherein when the second link is in the stowed position the second link's upper and lower planes are within the upper and lower planes of the left and right base links, and wherein each of the drive systems of the left and right base links is one of a pulley and track system having a front pulley, a back pulley and a track, and a wheel drive system. 16. A mobile robot as claimed in claim 15 further including an end link attached to the second link at a second joint and the end link having a stowed position and having an upper and lower plane and in the stowed position the upper and lower plane of the end link is within the upper and lower plane of the base link. 17. An invertible mobile robot as claimed in claim 16 further including an end effector attached to the end link and having a stowed position and an upper and lower plane and in the stowed position the upper and lower plane of the end effector effector is within the upper and lower plane of the base link. 18. An invertible mobile robot as claimed in claim 17 wherein the first joint is a revolute joint and the second link is pivotal around 360 degrees continuously and the second joint is a revolute joint and the end link is pivotal around 360 degrees continuously. 19. An invertible mobile robot as claimed in claim 18 further including a traction means attached to one of the first joint, the second joint, and each of the first and second joint. 20. A mobile robot as claimed in claim 19 wherein each drive system is one of a pulley and track system, and a wheel drive system. 21. A mobile robot comprising: a base link, wherein the base link includes a right base link and a left base link, wherein each of the right and left base links have a drive system and the right base link and the left base link are spaced apart, the base link adapted to function as a traction device and a turret, wherein the base link includes a module for wireless communication with a remote operator control unit; a second link attached to the base link at a first joint, the second link having a second link drive system and being adapted to function as a traction device and to be deployed for manipulation; an end link attached to the second link at a second joint, the end link having an end link drive system; and a central control system operably connected to the base drive system, operably connected to the second link drive system and operably connected via wireless communication to the end link, wherein a wireless communication link exists between the central control system and the end link, wherein each drive system of the left and right base links is one of a pulley and track system having a front pulley, a back pulley and a track, and a wheel drive system. 22. A mobile robot as claimed in claim 21 further including an end effector connected to the end link, the end effector having a drive system located in the end link and wherein the central control system is operably connected via a wireless connection to the end effector drive system. 23. A mobile robot as claimed in claim 22 wherein the central control system employs one frequency for wireless communication with the end link and end effector, and another frequency for wireless communication between the central control system and the remote operator control unit. 24. A hybrid mobile robot as claimed in claim 3 wherein the end effector is a gripper. 25. A mobile robot as claimed in claim 17, wherein the at least one wheel located between the second and end links is a pair of passive wheels, and further wherein at least one wheel is located between end link and the end effector. 