A robotic welding system is provided that includes multiple welding cells equidistantly spaced in a circular arrangement, multiple perimeter light curtains to provide safety protection around the welding cells, a turntable centrally located in the circular arrangement, and multiple welding robots attached to the turntable. The welding system further includes a first welding process and a second welding process whereby both the first welding process and the second welding process each include a primary welding operation and a secondary welding operation whereby the turntable rotates between the welding cells to perform the primary and secondary welding operations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic welding system comprising: multiple welding cells including a first pair of welding cells and a second pair of welding cells equidistantly spaced in a circular arrangement; a turntable centrally located in the circular arrangement, the turntable having a stationary portion and a rotating portion, the rotating portion including: a top portion; a first ring located between the top portion and the stationary portion; and a second ring located between the first ring and the stationary portion; multiple welding robots operatively attached to the rotating portion of the turntable; multiple perimeter light curtains positioned at a perimeter of the multiple welding cells; multiple inner light curtains located between the turntable and a front portion of each multiple welding cell; a first set of multiple limit switches; and a second set of multiple limit switches, wherein the first ring engages the first set of multiple limit switches to activate and deactivate the perimeter light curtains, and wherein the second ring engages the second set of multiple limit switches to activate and deactivate the inner light curtains. 2. The robotic welding system of claim 1, wherein during a first time period the welding robots rotate between the first pair of welding cells to perform a first welding process, wherein during a second time period the welding robots rotate between the second pair of welding cells to perform a second welding process, and wherein the first welding process may be substantially different from the second welding process. 3. The robotic welding system of claim 2, wherein the first pair of welding cells includes a primary welding cell and a secondary welding cell, wherein the first welding process includes a primary welding operation performed in the primary welding cell and a secondary welding operation performed in the secondary welding cell, and wherein the primary welding operation is substantially different from the secondary welding operation. 4. The robotic welding system of claim 3, wherein the second pair of welding cells includes a primary welding cell and a secondary welding cell, and wherein the second welding process includes a primary welding operation performed in the primary welding cell and a secondary welding operation performed in the secondary welding cell, and wherein the primary welding operation is substantially different from the secondary welding operation. 5. The robotic welding system of claim 4, wherein during the primary welding operation in the primary welding cell the perimeter light curtains for the primary welding cell are activated and the perimeter light curtains for the secondary welding cell are deactivated to allow preparation of the secondary welding cell for the secondary welding operation, and wherein during the secondary welding operation in the secondary welding cell the perimeter light curtains for the secondary welding cell are activated and the perimeter light curtains for primary welding cell are deactivated to allow preparation of the primary welding cell for the primary welding operation. 6. The robotic welding system of claim 5, wherein during the primary welding operation in the primary welding cell the inner light curtain for the primary welding cell is deactivated and the remaining inner light curtains are activated, and wherein during the secondary welding operation in the secondary welding cell the inner light curtain for the secondary welding cell is deactivated and the remaining inner light curtains are activated. 7. The robotic welding system of claim 6, wherein each perimeter light curtain includes a vertical light curtain and a horizontal light curtain, wherein the vertical light curtain includes a mirror, and wherein the mirror deflects a light beam at a predetermined angle from a transmitter post of the vertical light curtain to a receiver post of the vertical light curtain. 8. The robotic welding system of claim 7 further comprising proximity switches to detect the position of the rotating portion of the turntable. 9. A robotic welding system comprising: a first welding cell to perform a primary welding operation; a second welding cell to perform a secondary welding operation; a turntable having a stationary portion and a rotating portion, the rotating portion including: a top portion; a first ring located between the top portion and the stationary portion; and a second ring located between the first ring and the stationary portion; a welding robot operatively attached to the rotating portion; multiple perimeter light curtains positioned at a perimeter of the first welding cell and the second welding cell; an inner light curtain located between the turntable and a front portion of both the first welding cell and the second welding cell; a first set of multiple limit switches; and a second set of multiple limit switches, wherein the first ring engages the first set of multiple limit switches to activate and deactivate the perimeter light curtains, and wherein the second ring engages the second set of multiple limit switches to activate and deactivate the inner light curtain. 10. The robotic welding system of claim 9, wherein the turntable is located adjacent to the first and second welding cells such that the welding robot can perform the primary and secondary welding operations in the first and second welding cells respectively, wherein during the primary welding operation in the first welding cell the perimeter light curtains for the first welding cell are activated and the perimeter light curtains for the second welding cell are deactivated to allow the preparation of the second welding cell for the secondary welding operation, wherein during the secondary welding operation in the second welding cell the perimeter light curtains for the second welding cell are activated and the perimeter light curtains for the first welding cell are deactivated to allow the preparation of the first welding cell for the primary welding operation, and wherein the primary welding operation is substantially different from the secondary welding operation. 11. The robotic welding system of claim 10, wherein during the primary welding operation in the first welding cell the perimeter light curtains for the first welding cell are activated and the perimeter light curtains for the second welding cell are deactivated to allow preparation of the second welding cell for the secondary welding operation, and wherein during the secondary welding operation in the second welding cell the perimeter light curtains for the second welding cell are activated and the perimeter light curtains for first welding cell are deactivated to allow preparation of the first welding cell for the primary welding operation. 12. The robotic welding system of claim 11, wherein during the primary welding operation in the first welding cell the inner light curtain for the first welding cell is deactivated and the inner light curtain for the second welding cell is activated, and wherein during the secondary welding operation in the second welding cell the inner light curtain for the second welding cell is deactivated and the inner light curtain for the first welding cell is activated. 13. The robotic welding system of claim 12, wherein each perimeter light curtain includes a vertical light curtain and a horizontal light curtain, wherein the vertical light curtain includes a mirror, and wherein the mirror deflects a light beam at a predetermined angle from a transmitter post of the vertical light curtain to a receiver post of the vertical light curtain. 14. The robotic welding system of claim 13 further comprising proximity switches positioned adjacent to the turntable to detect the position of the rotating portion of the turntable. 