Fluid containers are disclosed which have fluid reservoirs in their closures. These reservoirs are advantageous to hold sacrificial fluid which lessens the loss of the fluid of interest to the outside through evaporation. The reservoirs may have openings to the inside or outside of the container, or to both. Reservoirs with openings to the outside serve to reduce evaporative loss by raising the partial pressure of fluid in the vicinity of the contact between the closure and the remainder of the container. The reservoirs may be refillable without opening the container. In one embodiment a fluid reservoir allows the zone of contact between the closure and the remainder of the container to be immersed in fluid, so that gases seeking to escape the interior of the container must pass through fluid.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of storing a plurality of fluid samples all comprising a liquid solvent, the method comprising the steps of: (a) storing each of the plurality of fluid samples in a well of a well plate, each of the plurality of fluid samples including the liquid solvent; (b) covering the well plate with a closure which comprises a reservoir holding at least a first quantity of the liquid solvent and at least one opening which allows gas diffusion from the reservoir but does not allow liquid movement from the reservoir; (c) converting at least a part of the first quantity of the liquid solvent into a second quantity of a vapor solvent; (d) providing at least a part of the second quantity of the vapor solvent through the opening; and (e) replenishing the liquid solvent in the reservoir of the closure. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: (f) covering the closure with a cover or plug which helps to prevent evaporation of the liquid solvent in the reservoir of the closure. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (e) is carried out without removing the closure from the well plate. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (e) is carried out by means of an automated pipetting system. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step (e) is carried out by means of an automated pin-based fluid transfer system. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of stacking the covered well plate atop other well plates. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least 10% of the vapor solvent escaping to the atmosphere through a seal between the closure and the well plate comes from the liquid solvent in the reservoir of the closure. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the closure contacts the well plate at a contact zone, and wherein as a result of the presence of the liquid solvent in the reservoir of the closure, the partial pressure of the vapor solvent immediately outside the contact zone is at least 10% of the vapor pressure of the vapor solvent. 9. A method of storing a fluid sample comprising a liquid solvent, the method comprising the steps of: (a) placing the fluid sample in a first reservoir; (b) covering the first reservoir with a closure which includes a second reservoir holding at least a first quantity of the liquid solvent and at least one opening which allows gas diffusion to the first reservoir but does not allow liquid movement from the second reservoir to the first reservoir; (c) converting at least a part of the first quantity of the liquid solvent into a second quantity of a vapor solvent; (d) providing at least a part of the second quantity of the vapor solvent through the opening; and (e) replenishing the liquid solvent in the second reservoir. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of: (f) covering the closure with a cover or plug which helps to prevent evaporation of the liquid solvent in the second reservoir. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the step (e) is carried out without removing the closure from the first reservoir. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the step (e) is carried out by means of an automated pipetting system. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the step (e) is carried out by means of an automated pin-based fluid transfer system. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein at least 10% of the vapor solvent escaping to the atmosphere through a seal between the closure and the first reservoir comes from the liquid solvent in the second reservoir. 15. The method of claim 9, wherein the closure contacts the first reservoir at a contact zone, and wherein as a result of the presence of the liquid solvent in the second reservoir, the partial pressure of the vapor solvent immediately outside the contact zone is at least 10% of the vapor pressure of the vapor solvent. 