A system and a method that promotes the restoration of physical functions of the neuromuscular system by incorporating into one device the treatment modalities of biofeedback based repetitive practice, includes an actuator, a joint position measurement system, a force sensing measurement system, an EMG measurement system, a neuromuscular low-level stimulation system, a controller, and a display device.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for assisting neuromuscular function comprising: at least one EMG sensor for detecting self-actuation of a neuromuscular system; at least one joint position sensor for detecting self-actuation of a joint; at least one force sensor for measuring a parameter indicative of muscle resistance; a computer processor for implementing a protocol responsive when self-actuation or attempted self-actuation is detected by the at least one EMG sensor and is not detected by the at least one joint position sensor; and a motion causing device for assisting the at least one joint in movement, said motion causing device following the protocol implemented by the computer processor. 2. The system of claim 1 further including an electronic memory system for storing information regarding the patient. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the protocol is based on previous measurements recorded from at least one of the EMG sensor, joint position sensor, and force sensor. 4. The system of claim 1 further including at least one neuromuscular electrical stimulating (NMES) system for providing neuromuscular stimulation to the at least one neuromuscular system. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the motion causing device is an air-muscle. 6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the air-muscle includes at least one port for supplying pressurized air to inflate said air-muscle. 7. The system according to claim 6, wherein the computer processor controls at least one valve for controlling the supply of pressurized air to the air-muscle. 8. The system according to claim 1, further including a first display for depicting the electrical activity from the EMG sensor. 9. The system according to claim 8, further including a second display indicating a degree of flexor resistance torque measured by the at least one force sensor. 10. The system according to claim 9, wherein the displays provide a means for the patient to monitor the compliance and performance. 11. The system according to claim 10, wherein the controller updates the displays in a predetermined manner to provide a mechanism for the patient to improve said performance and said compliance. 