Methods are provided for low temperature, rapid baking to remove impurities from a semiconductor surface prior to in-situ deposition. Advantageously, a short, low temperature process consumes very little of the thermal budget, such that the process is suitable for advanced, high density circuits with shallow junctions. Furthermore, throughput is greatly improved by the low temperature bake, particularly in combination with low temperature plasma cleaning and low temperature wafer loading prior to the bake, and deposition after the bake at temperatures lower than conventional epitaxial deposition. The process enables epitaxial deposition of silicon-containing layers over semiconductor surfaces, particularly enabling epitaxial deposition over a silicon germanium base layer. By use of a low-temperature bake, the silicon germanium base layer can be cleaned to facilitate further epitaxial deposition without relaxing the strained crystal structure of the silicon germanium.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for chemical vapor deposition on a semiconductor substrate, comprising: a cold wall reaction chamber; a plasma source connected to feed plasma products to the reaction chamber; a susceptor housed within the reaction chamber; a robot configured to transfer a substrate into and out of the reaction chamber; a plurality of heating elements configured to heat the substrate upon the susceptor; and a computer programmed to control the robot, heating elements and plasma source to conduct plasma cleaning of the reaction chamber at a temperature of less than 500.degree. C. when the chamber holds no substrate, and load the substrate onto the susceptor in the chamber after conducting plasma cleaning, and conduct deposition upon the substrate. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer is programmed to raise the substrate temperature from below about 500.degree. C. to greater than about 500.degree. C. after loading the substrate onto the susceptor. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the computer is further programmed to control mass flow controllers on gas lines connected to the reaction chamber to flow a reducing agent into the chamber while raising the substrate temperature. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the computer is further programmed to stabilize the substrate temperature at a temperature suitable for chemical vapor deposition immediately after raising the substrate temperature. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein stabilizing the substrate temperature comprises lowering the substrate temperature to a temperature suitable for chemical vapor deposition within less than about 30 seconds of initiating raising the substrate temperature. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of heating elements comprises an upper bank of lights and a lower bank of lights. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the computer is programmed to control the plurality of heating elements during a bake step to deliver a greater ratio of power to the upper bank of lamps as compared to a neutral ratio of power between the upper bank and the lower bank of lamps, where the neutral ratio of power is optimized to maintain the substrate temperature the same as the susceptor temperature. 8. A system for chemical vapor deposition on a semiconductor substrate, comprising: a plasma source connected to feed plasma products within a single wafer reaction chamber; a susceptor housed within the reaction chamber; a robot configured to transfer a hydrogen-terminated substrate into and out of the reaction chamber; a plurality of heating elements configured to heat the substrate upon the susceptor; and a computer programmed to first control the robot, heating elements and plasma source to conduct plasma cleaning of the reaction chamber at a temperature less than that at which hydrogen will desorb from the substrate; second load the substrate onto the susceptor in the chamber at a temperature less than that at which hydrogen will desorb from the substrate after conducting plasma cleaning; and third conduct a chemical vapor deposition upon the substrate. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the computer is programmed to raise the substrate temperature from a temperature less than that at which hydrogen will desorb from the substrate to a temperature at which hydrogen will desorb from the substrate after loading the substrate onto the susceptor. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the computer is further programmed to control mass flow controllers on gas lines connected to the reaction chamber to flow a reducing agent into the chamber while raising the substrate temperature. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the computer is further programmed to stabilize the substrate temperature at a temperature suitable for chemical vapor deposition immediately after raising the substrate temperature. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein stabilizing the substrate temperature comprises lowering the substrate temperature to a temperature suitable for chemical vapor deposition within less than about 30 seconds of initiating raising the substrate temperature. 13. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of heating elements comprises an upper bank of lights and a lower bank of lights. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer is programmed to control the plurality of heating elements during a bake step to deliver a greater ratio of power to the upper bank of lamps as compared to a neutral ratio of power between the upper bank and the lower bank of lamps, where the neutral ratio of power is optimized to maintain the substrate temperature the same as the susceptor temperature. 15. A system for chemical vapor deposition on a semiconductor substrate, comprising: a cold wall reaction chamber; a susceptor housed within the reaction chamber; a robot configured to transfer a substrate into and out of the reaction chamber; a plurality of heating elements configured to heat the substrate upon the susceptor, the plurality of heating elements comprising an upper bank of lights and a lower bank of lights; and a computer programmed to control the robot and the plurality of heating elements to: load the substrate onto the susceptor in the chamber; deliver a greater ratio of power during a bake step to the upper bank of lamps as compared to a neutral ratio of power between the upper bank and the lower bank of lamps, where the neutral ratio of power is optimized to maintain the substrate temperature the same as the susceptor temperature; and conduct deposition upon the substrate. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the greater ratio of power is greater than 25% higher than the neutral ratio. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the greater ratio of power is greater than 50% higher than the neutral ratio. 18. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of spot lamps to supply heat to an underside of the susceptor. 19. The system of claim 8, further comprising a plurality of spot lamps to supply heat to an underside of the susceptor. 20. The system of claim 15, further comprising a plurality of spot lamps to supply heat to an underside of the susceptor. 21. The system of claim 1, wherein the susceptor has a thermal mass greater than about 3 times the thermal mass of the substrate. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the susceptor has a thermal mass greater than about 7 times the thermal mass of the substrate. 23. The system of claim 1, wherein the heating elements have properties of heating up and cooling down quickly. 