The present invention relates to an exoskeleton interface apparatus that parallels human arm motion and is comprised of a serial assemblage of five powered linkages and joints based at a rigid support structure worn on the torso of the human subject. Such apparatus generates shoulder rotation using three orthogonal revolute joints mounted on serial linkages encompassing and intersecting at the anatomical glenohumeral joint. Elevation of the shoulder joint is articulated using a link member driven by a single revolute joint mounted in the torso structure. Passive adjustable linkages are used to match variation in anatomical forearm length, upper arm length, and scapula-to-glenohumeral radius. A plurality of integrated dc motor/harmonic drive transmission modules is co-located on adjoining linkages to power the joints. Force is exchanged with the human at the handgrip and elbow brace, and reacted to the torso structure via the base attachment. The present invention is applicable in particular to rehabilitation of the shoulder.
Claims We claim: 1. A powered exoskeleton encompassing a human arm comprising rigid linkages connected in series by revolute joints with a first linkage securable to a torso of a human body, the exoskeleton further comprises: three-axis rotation of a shoulder rotation assembly by means of three single-axis revolute joints mounted orthogonally to each other with axes that intersect at a point in space coincident with the human glenohumeral joint; translation of the point of intersection of the shoulder rotation assembly with respect to the torso of the human using a scapula elevation assembly comprising a scapula linkage driven by a revolute scapula joint mounted to the first linkage; first revolute joint axis of the shoulder rotation assembly is connected to the scapula linkage and skewed at an acute angle with respect to a vertical line through the point of intersection of the shoulder rotation assembly; and third revolute joint axis of the shoulder rotation assembly connected to an upper arm linkage and skewed with respect to the upper arm of the human. 2. A powered exoskeleton according to claim 1, wherein translation of the point of intersection of the shoulder rotation assembly joint axes is along a circular arc in the human frontal plane. 3. A powered exoskeleton according to claim 1 wherein the shoulder rotation assembly is comprised of two circular arc linkages with overlapping joints containing hardstops to limit range of motion. 4. A powered exoskeleton according to claim 1 wherein joints are driven by co-axial actuator modules comprised of dc motors coupled to harmonic drive transmissions. 5. Actuator modules according to claim 4 wherein incremental encoder measures angle of the motor shaft and absolute encoder measures angle of the transmission output. 6. A powered exoskeleton according to claim 1 wherein a force between the human arm and an elbow pitch assembly is transmitted through an upper arm brace connected to the upper arm linkage of the elbow pitch assembly. 7. The powered exoskeleton of claim 6 wherein the force between the human arm and the elbow pitch assembly is measured using a force sensor mounted between the upper arm brace and the upper arm linkage. 8. The powered exoskeleton of claim 2 wherein radius of travel of the point of intersection of the shoulder rotation assembly joint axes about the scapula joint is linearly adjustable by extension of the scapula linkage. 9. The powered exoskeleton of claim 1 wherein the upper arm linkage and a forearm linkage are linearly adjustable to match arm limb lengths of the human. 10. A powered exoskeleton according to claim 6 wherein rotation of a revolute joint of the elbow pitch assembly is coincident with rotation of a human elbow flexion and extension. 11. A powered exoskeleton according to claim 9 wherein a wrist roll assembly is comprised of the forearm linkage and a revolute joint with axis longitudinal to a human forearm and orthogonal to a handgrip. 