A robotic system and a related method for reproducing a real person's facial expression and speech simultaneously and synchronously is provided herein. The robotic system comprises at least a robotic head which in turn comprises a speaker, a plurality of face actuators, and a computing engine. The robotic head drives the speaker and the face actuators synchronously based on a speech segment and a sequence of time-stamped control vectors so that the robotic system could mimic a real person's facial expression and speech. The speech segment and the sequence of time-stamped control vectors are retrieved from a storage device of the robotic system, or from an external source via an appropriate communication mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system for reproducing a person's facial expression and speech comprising: a robotic head comprising a speaker, a plurality of face actuators, and a computing engine connected to said speaker and said face actuators, said computing engine driving said face actuators based on a sequence of sets of control parameters while delivering speech from said speaker based on a speech segment; and at least one of a camera and a microphone for capturing a person's performance over a period of time to produce at least one of a recorded video and a recorded speech, wherein said sequence of sets of control parameters is generated from said recorded video, and said speech segment is generated from said recorded speech; wherein each of said sets of control parameters includes a time stamp and a control parameter corresponding to each of said face actuators; and said computing engine drives said face actuators at appropriate time specified by the time stamps of said sets of control parameters so that said face actuators are activated according to the corresponding control parameters to reproduce said person's facial expression. 2. The robotic system according to claim 1, wherein said computing engine comprises an appropriate interface; and said computing engine retrieves at least one of said speech segment and said sequence of sets of control parameters from an external device via said interface. 3. The robotic system according to claim 1, further comprising: an interpretation device, said interpretation device generating said speech segment from said recorded speech; said interpretation device generating said sequence of sets of control parameters from said recorded video; and said interpretation device delivering said speech segment and said sequence of sets of control parameters to said computing engine via an appropriate mechanism. 4. The robotic system according to claim 3, wherein said appropriate mechanism is one of the following two mechanisms: a removable media and a direct link. 5. The robotic system according to claim 4, wherein said direct link is a local area network. 6. The robotic system according to claim 3, wherein said interpretation device allows a user to add an additional set of control parameters into said sequence of sets of control parameters, and to delete and modify an existing set of control parameters from said sequence of sets of control parameters. 7. The robotic system according to claim 3, wherein said recorded speech and said recorded video are combined in a single recording. 8. The robotic system according to claim 3, wherein said interpretation device allows a user to align said recorded speech and said recorded video so that said recorded speech and said recorded video have synchronized starting time. 9. The robotic system according to claim 3, wherein said interpretation device operates at least one of said camera and said microphone to produce at least one of said recorded video and said recorded speech. 10. The robotic system according to claim 3, wherein said interpretation device obtains at least one of said recorded speech and said recorded video from an external source via an appropriate mechanism. 11. The robotic system according to claim 10, wherein said appropriate mechanism is one of the following two mechanisms: a removable media and a direct link. 12. The robotic system according to claim 11, wherein said direct link is a local area network. 13. The robotic system according to claim 3, further comprising: a recording device operating at least one of said camera and said microphone to produce at least one of said recorded video and said recorded speech, and said recording device delivering at least one of said recorded speech and said recorded video to said interpretation device via an appropriate mechanism. 14. The robotic system according to claim 13, wherein said appropriate mechanism is one of the following two mechanisms: a removable media and a direct link. 15. The robotic system according to claim 14, wherein said direct link is a local area network. 16. The robotic system according to claim 13, wherein said recorded speech and said recorded video are combined in a single recording. 