Systems, methods, compositions and apparatus relating to genome selection are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: decondensing one or more male germ line haploid genomes; determining one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes; and selecting one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes based at least partially on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more male germ line haploid genomes are part of one or more of one or more condensed spermatocytes or one or more spermatozoa. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more male germ line haploid genomes are at least partially isolated from one or more of one or more condensed spermatocytes or one or more spermatozoa. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more male germ line haploid genomes are from one or more of animals, mammals, reptiles, birds, or plants. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein decondensing one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: at least partially decondensing one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein decondensing one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: decondensing in vitro one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein decondensing in vitro one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: decondensing in vitro one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes by providing one or more reducing agents. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing one or more reducing agents to one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing one or more molecular markers to one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein providing one or more molecular markers to one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: providing one or more molecular markers to one or more decondensed male germ line haploid genomes. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: hybridizing one or more probes to one or more nucleic acid sequences of one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein hybridizing one or more probes to one or more nucleic acid sequences of one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: hybridizing the one or more probes in vitro to the one or more nucleic acid sequences of one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein hybridizing the one or more probes in vitro to the one or more nucleic acid sequences of one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: hybridizing one or more nucleic acid specific probes in vitro to the one or more nucleic acid sequences of one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: detecting one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein detecting one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: detecting one or more molecular markers of the one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein detecting one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: detecting one or more molecular markers hybridized to the one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: receiving data representative of the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: analyzing the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: receiving data representative of one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising: hybridizing one or more molecular markers with one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein analyzing the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: comparing the one or more genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes with a weighted combination of one or more of one or more reference genetic characteristics or one or more target genetic characteristics. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein analyzing the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: analyzing one or more of one or more single nucleotide polymorphisms, one or more chromosomes, one or more methylation patterns, or one or more nucleic acid sequences of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 25. The method of claim 22, wherein analyzing the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: comparing the one or more genetic characteristics of one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes with one or more of one or more reference genetic characteristics or one or more target genetic characteristics. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising: determining one or more of the one or more reference genetic characteristics or the one or more target genetic characteristics at least partially based on one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 27. The method of claim 25, further comprising: selecting one or more of the one or more reference genetic characteristics or the one or more target genetic characteristics at least partially based on one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 28. The method of claim 25, wherein said step of comparing comprises: selecting for one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes having one or more of the one or more reference genetic characteristics or the one or more target genetic characteristics. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein said step of selecting for comprises: selecting for one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes having a weighted combination of one or more of the one or more reference genetic characteristics or the one or more target genetic characteristics. 30. The method of claim 25, wherein said step of comparing comprises: selecting against one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes having one or more of the one or more reference genetic characteristics or the one or more target genetic characteristics. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein said step of selecting against comprises: selecting against one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes having a weighted combination of one or more of the one or more reference genetic characteristics or the one or more target genetic characteristics. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes comprises: selecting one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes at least partially based on one or more genetic characteristics of one or more female germ line genomes. 33. The method of claim 1, further comprising: separating the selected one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 34. A method comprising: decondensing one or more male germ line haploid genomes; determining one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes; and separating one or more of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes based at least partially on the one or more genetic characteristics of the one or more male germ line haploid genomes. 