A band forming apparatus for banding an internal body part and method of using same. The band forming apparatus is initially supplied as a relatively straight structure so that it can be, for example, inserted through a catheter or narrow incision such as when using endoscopic or robotic surgery techniques. Alternatively, the band forming apparatus may be used or inserted using conventional surgical techniques. In use, the initially straight assembly can be formed into a loop or band around an internal body part. Embodiments of the band forming apparatus include a compressible tube having first and second tube ends and an orifice in the tube wall between the first and second tube ends. A string is received in the tube, the string having a first end extending out of the first end of the tube and a second end extending out of the orifice. Alternatively the second string end may extend out of the second tube end. Means are provided for drawing an securing the band forming apparatus into a band of selected diameter.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A band forming apparatus for banding an internal body part, the band forming apparatus comprising: a compressible tube having first and second tube ends and an orifice in a wall defining the tube between the first and second tube ends; a string received in the tube, the string having a first string end extending out of the first end of the tube and a second string end extending out the orifice; and an instrument comprising an elongate body having a first end extending out of the second end of the tube and a second end extending out of the orifice, the first end of the instrument having means for securing the first end of the string with the first end of the string extending out of the first end of the tube. 2. The band forming apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a stop at the second end of the string configured to prevent the second end of the string from being pulled into the orifice. 3. The band forming apparatus of claim 2 wherein the stop comprises a knot in the second end of the string. 4. The band forming apparatus of claim 1 wherein the means for securing the first end of the string comprises a loop. 5. The band forming apparatus of claim 1 wherein elongate body comprises a flexible shaft. 6. The band forming apparatus of claim 1 wherein the second end of the elongate body comprises a stop configured to prevent the second end of the elongate body from being pulled into the orifice. 7. The band forming apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a hook formed in the first end of the string. 8. The band forming apparatus of claim 1 further comprising the first end of the string received in the means for securing the first end of the string. 9. The band forming apparatus of claim 8 further comprising the first end of the string being inserted into the second end of the tube with the first end of the elongate body pulled away from the orifice. 10. The band forming apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of compressible tubes attached together in a parallel array, each with a string extending between the first end of the tube and an orifice between tube ends and one of the tubes receiving the instrument as recited in claim 1. 11. A band forming apparatus for banding an internal body part, the band forming apparatus comprising: a compressible tube having first and second tube ends and an orifice in a wall defining the tube between the first and second tube ends; a string received in the tube, the string having a first string end extending out of the first end of the tube and a second string end extending out the second end of the tube; a first loop member having a loop end extending from the first end of the tube and a second end extending from the orifice; and a second loop member having a loop end extending from the second end of the tube and a second end extending from the orifice. 12. The band forming apparatus of claim 11 further comprising a plurality of compressible tubes attached together in a parallel array. 