A method, system, and software for interactive communication for a user responsive to electric signals generated by the user, includes (A) providing an interactive display to the user representative of lists of target items; (B) receiving detected electric signals generated by the user responsive to the interactive display; (C) processing and converting the detected electric signals into digital data; and (D) analyzing the digital data to associate with the user's selection one of the lists of target items presented to the user using the interactive display. Steps (A)-(D) are iteratively repeated based on a hierarchical relationship of lists of target items presented to the user to select a target item desired by the user.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interactive communication method for a user responsive to electromyograph (EMG) signals generated by the user, comprising: (A) providing an interactive display to the user that displays a plurality of lists using an Exponentially Leveraged Alphanumeric String Selector (ELASS) algorithm at a first time, each list containing a set of target items, wherein each target item of a set is displayed to the user at the first time, and wherein a target item is an item displayed in a one of the plurality of lists and selectable by selection indication of the user, wherein the ELASS algorithm enables the user to locate the target item by iteratively reducing the lists by a fraction that has a numerator of one and a denominator of any integer; (B) receiving detected electromyograph (EMG) signals generated by the user responsive to the interactive display at a second time; (C) processing and converting the detected electromyograph (EMG) signals into a digital datastream; (D) analyzing the digital datastream to detect a selection indication of the user of one of the plurality of lists of displayed target items in association with the interactive display at a third time, based on analyzing a parameter associated with the electromyograph (EMG) signal values; and (E) iteratively repeating steps (A)-(D) based on a relationship of the plurality of lists of displayed target items presented to the user to select a displayed target item desired by the user, wherein the user's selection indicates one of the plurality of lists that contains the displayed target item desired by the user. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of receiving detected electromyograph (EMG) signals comprises receiving electromyograph (EMG) signals generated at neuromuscular sites of the user, and the step of processing and converting the detected electromyograph (EMG) signals into a digital datastream comprises filtering and converting the detected electromyograph (EMG) signals into a digital datastream signal. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the step of receiving electromyograph (EMG) signals further comprises receiving the electromyograph (EMG) signals as a two byte hexadecimal code per time period. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the step of processing and converting the detected electromyograph (EMG) signals into a digital datastream further comprises converting the received two byte hexadecimal code into a single decimal value per time period. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the process of analyzing the digital datastream to associate with a user's selection comprises comparing the detected electromyograph (EMG) signal to a threshold value for the electromyograph (EMG) signal. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the threshold value comprises a midline value between the maximum and minimum detected electromyograph (EMG) values over a time period. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the process of analyzing the digital datastream to associate with a user's selection comprises analyzing parameters related to the shape of a graph corresponding to the detected electromyograph (EMG) values. 8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the parameters includes a slope (rate of change) of the graph. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step (E) is iteratively repeated until a list selected by the user contains only one displayed target item. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein a displayed target item in a list also represents a list. 11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: generating a decimal value representative of a value of the electromyograph (EMG) signal over a time period; and displaying the decimal value in a graphical display wherein a decimal value of a latest time period replaces the decimal value of an earliest time period for a rolling range of successive time periods displayed on the graphical display. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein a maximum value and minimum value for the graphical display is automatically determined based on a received maximum value and minimum value of the received electromyograph (EMG) signal over a time period or over successive time periods. 