A system and method provides active propulsion of endoscopes along body lumens. The propulsion system can be attached to a commercially available endoscope, or be provide affixed together, and moves the endoscope in a lumen by pulling it forward. A rotatable toroidal wall, e.g. annular invaginated balloon, provides the propulsion. A drive assembly rotates the toroid while maintaining the toroid's position along the endoscope. The toroid is radially extended or inflated within the lumen to engage its outer surface to the lumen. The toroidal rotation tracks the lumen wall for propulsion. Stops maintain the rotating toroid's position on the endoscope. A helical screw within the toroid engages patterned protrusions around the toroid; screw rotation advances the protrusions to rotate the toroid wall. A fitted belt coupled to a groove in the toroid provides alternative actuation. Colonoscopy is substantially improved, reducing anesthesia and other requirements and costs, and improving safety.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An endoscope propulsion device assembly, comprising: a toroidal wall having an exterior surface and an interior surface that circumscribes an interior passageway extending along a longitudinal axis, and with a length between a proximal end and a distal end relative to the longitudinal axis; a drive assembly comprising an end support on each of its proximal and distal ends, wherein the end supports maintain the toroidal wall at a single position along an endoscope during movement of the propulsion device assembly through a body lumen by way of movement of the toroidal wall; and an endoscope coupler assembly; wherein the toroidal wall is adjustable from a radially collapsed condition to a radially extended condition, respectively, transverse to the longitudinal axis, wherein the toroidal wall and drive assembly remain coupled in both the radially collapsed condition and the radially extended condition; wherein the toroidal wall defines an inner volume for adjusting from a radially collapsed condition to a radially extended condition, and wherein the inner volume does not comprise any mechanical elements for propulsion of the device; wherein the drive assembly is adapted to couple to the toroidal wall and to impart toroidal rotation onto the toroidal wall in the radially extended condition such that the interior surface translates in a first longitudinal direction and the exterior surface translates in a second opposite longitudinal direction along the longitudinal axis; and wherein the endoscope coupler assembly is adapted to couple the toroidal wall to an endoscope extending along the interior passageway such that the toroidal wall and endoscope are adapted to be propelled together in the first direction along a body lumen during toroidal rotation of the toroidal wall when the exterior surface is engaged to a wall of the body lumen with translating force against the wall. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the toroidal wall comprises: a toroidal balloon having an annular invaginated balloon wall and that is inflatable from the radially collapsed condition to the radially extended condition with a pressurized fluid. 3. The assembly of claim 2, wherein: the toroidal balloon comprises a protrusion extending from the balloon wall along the interior surface and into the interior passageway; the drive assembly comprises an elongate screw extending along the longitudinal axis within the interior passageway and with a helical groove extending helically around the longitudinal axis; and the helical groove is adapted to receive the protrusion within the interior passageway such that rotation of the elongate screw advances the protrusion longitudinally in the first direction along the longitudinal axis, and thereby is adapted to move the Interior surface in the first direction along the longitudinal axis to impart toroidal rotation to the toroidal balloon along the longitudinal axis. 4. The assembly of claim 3, wherein the protrusion extends from the interior surface with a relatively narrow neck and terminates interiorly within the interior passageway with an enlarged head relative to the neck. 5. The assembly of claim 3, further comprising: a plurality of said protrusions in a patterned group that are each spaced along a longitudinal pattern that circumscribes one lobe of the toroidal balloon along the longitudinal axis; wherein the toroidal balloon comprises at least one lobe; wherein each protrusion of the group along the interior surface is engaged to a respective turn of the helical groove and translates longitudinally in the first direction along the rotating screw; wherein each said protrusion of the group along the inner surface is released therefrom the helical groove when it is translated in the first direction to a first end of the screw; wherein each said protrusion of the group along the exterior surface translates in the second opposite direction and is adapted to rotate inwardly to the inner surface and to be engaged within the helical groove of the screw at a second end thereof; and wherein continuous rotation of the screw continuously releases and engages respective protrusions of the patterned group at the first and second ends of the screw, respectively, to thereby continuously drive toroidal rotation of the toroidal balloon. 6. The assembly of claim 5, comprising: a plurality of said groups of protrusions in patterned arrays; and wherein each of the groups of protrusions is located at a unique respective position around a circumference of the toroidal balloon transverse to the longitudinal axis. 7. The assembly of claim 5, comprising: four of said groups; and wherein the four groups are spaced at 90 degree intervals around the circumference transverse to the longitudinal axis. 8. The assembly of claim 5, further comprising: a cowling with a substantially tubular body located between the screw and the interior surface of the toroidal balloon and with a longitudinal groove extending along the longitudinal axis between first and second ends of the screw; and wherein the protrusions are adapted to engage the helical groove of the screw through the longitudinal groove of the cowling. 9. The assembly of claim 6, further comprising: a cowling with a substantially tubular body located between the screw and the interior surface of the toroidal balloon and with a plurality of longitudinal grooves extending along the longitudinal axis between first and second ends of the screw; and wherein the protrusions of each group are adapted to engage the helical groove of the screw through a respective one of the plurality of longitudinal grooves of the cowling. 10. The assembly of claim 2, further comprising: an expansion actuator that is adapted to couple to the toroidal wall and expand the toroidal wall from the radially collapsed condition to the radially extended condition. 11. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising: a motor that is adapted to couple to the drive assembly and to actuate the drive assembly coupled to the toroidal wall to impart toroidal rotation to the toroidal wall. 12. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising an endoscope. 13. The assembly of claim 12, wherein said endoscope and the toroidal wall are permanently secured in a fixed position relative to each other via the endoscope coupler assembly. 14. The assembly of claim 12, wherein said endoscope and toroidal wall are adapted to be releasably coupled to each other via the endoscope coupler assembly. 15. The assembly of claim 1, wherein: the endoscope coupler assembly comprises a base with a tubular member with an inner lumen extending along a length between first and second ends, and further comprises first and second radial protrusion stops extending radially outwardly from the tubular member transverse to the longitudinal axis at each of the first and second ends, respectively; the base is adapted to be coupled to an endoscope extending along the inner lumen; the toroidal wall is adapted to be positioned at a location along the base with the tubular member located within the interior passageway and such that in the radially extended condition the toroidal wall has an inner diameter at the interior surface that is less than an outer diameter of the base at the first and second radial protrusion stops; and the toroidal wall is adapted to undergo toroidal rotation at the position without substantially moving longitudinally along the base due to mechanical interference between the toroidal wall and the first and second radial protrusion stops. 16. The assembly of claim 2, wherein: the toroidal balloon comprises at least one lobe; the drive assembly comprises a belt that circumscribes one lobe of the toroidal balloon wall along the longitudinal axis and at a position around the circumference transverse to the longitudinal axis; the toroidal balloon wall comprises a circumferential groove along the longitudinal axis and corresponding with the position; the belt is adapted to engage the circumferential groove along the exterior surface of the toroidal balloon wall at the position; the belt is also adapted to engage the drive assembly located within the interior passageway; and the drive assembly is adapted to rotate the belt around the toroidal balloon and so as to impart translational motion to the exterior surface in the second direction to thereby provide toroidal rotation of the balloon. 17. The assembly of claim 16, wherein: the groove comprises a shaped interior surface with a plurality of spaced pairs of opposite protrusions into the groove to provide an alternating pattern of expanded and narrowed waste regions along the groove; the belt comprises a shaped outer surface with a plurality of enlargements separated by relatively narrowed waste regions; the belt and groove are adapted to couple along the exterior surface with the narrowed waste regions of the belt fitting into the narrowed waste regions of the groove; and the belt is adapted to be released from the groove at first and second ends of the exterior surface along the balloon. 18. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the toroidal wall comprises an elongated toroidal wall such that the length is substantially greater than a profile diameter between the interior and exterior surfaces of the toroidal wall in the radially extended condition. 19. A method for propelling an endoscope, comprising: coupling a toroidal wall to an endoscope at a location along a distal end portion of the endoscope; coupling a drive assembly to the toroidal wall at the location; adjusting the toroidal wall from a radially collapsed condition to a radially extended condition, respectively, transverse to the longitudinal axis at the location, wherein the toroidal wall and drive assembly remain coupled in both the radially collapsed condition and the radially extended condition, and wherein the toroidal wall defines an inner volume for adjusting from the radially collapsed condition to the radially extended condition, and wherein the inner volume does not comprise any mechanical elements for propulsion of the endoscope; actuating the drive assembly to impart toroidal rotation onto the toroidal wall in the radially extended condition at the location such that the interior surface translates in a first longitudinal direction and the exterior surface translates in a second opposite longitudinal direction along the longitudinal axis; and substantially maintaining the toroidal wall at the location along the endoscope while imparting the toroidal rotation to the toroidal wall. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: inserting the endoscope and respectively coupled toroidal wall and drive assembly into a body lumen of a patient; engaging a lumen wall of the body lumen with the exterior surface of the toroidal wall in the radially extended condition; and propelling the toroidal wall and endoscope together in the first longitudinal direction along the body lumen by imparting the toroidal rotation to the toroidal wall and thereby translating the exterior surface with force in the second opposite direction against the respectively engaged body lumen wall. 21. A method for performing endoscopy within a body lumen in a patient, comprising: inserting an endoscope assembly within the body lumen; engaging a substantial circumference of a body lumen wall of the body lumen surrounding the endoscope with a drive assembly coupled to the endoscope, wherein the drive assembly comprises a toroidal balloon that physically links the endoscope to the body lumen, wherein the toroidal balloon defines an inner volume for adjusting from a radially collapsed condition to a radially extended condition, wherein the inner volume does not comprise any mechanical elements for propulsion of the device, and wherein the toroidal balloon is maintained substantially at the same location along the endoscope as it is propelled along the body lumen; providing an axial force against the body lumen wall and around the substantial circumference with the drive assembly; and propelling the endoscope along the body lumen at least in part using the axial force against the body lumen wall from the drive assembly. 