A cartridge is disclosed comprising a reel-to-reel roll of cleaning material, for use in a hand-held or robotic cleaning device. The cartridge provides either an electrostatic dust cloth or wet mop, and includes a fluid reservoir for maintaining the wet mop cloth during use. A dust bin is also provided on the cartridge, and includes a hinged lid for providing selective access to the dust inside of the bin. A motor, optical sensor, and fluid pump inside of a cleaning apparatus control the operation of the reel-to-reel cloth, and control fluid delivery to the wet cloth.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic surface treating device, comprising: a housing including an aperture sized and dimensioned to receive a cleaning cartridge; a sweeper brush coupled to the housing; and a cleaning cartridge comprising: a supply reel coupled to a first axle; a take-up reel coupled to another axle; and a roll of sheet cleaning material mounted on the reels; and a dust bin positioned between the sweeper brush and the roll of sheet cleaning material, the dust bin having a lid mounted thereon suitable to automatically pivot from a closed position to an open position as the lid moves into the cleaning device, and suitable to automatically pivot from an open position to a closed position as the lid moves out of the cleaning device; wherein the housing is configured to force open the lid as the dust bin moves into the cleaning device; wherein there are means for moving said cleaning material relative to the surface to be treated; and whereby the device is suitable to cause particulate matter on the surface to be removed from the surface and sent to the dust bin before the sheet cleaning material passes over where that particulate matter was previously on the surface. 2. The robotic surface treating device as defined in claim 1, further comprising a pump for delivering a fluid onto the sheet cleaning material. 3. The robotic surface treating device as defined in claim 1, wherein there is also a flexible blade; wherein there is also a ratchet linked to the take-up reel to permit the sheet of cleaning material to move onto the take-up reel, but to restrict movement of a used portion of the sheet of cleaning material, if present, back off the take-up reel; and wherein the dust bin is positioned rearward of the flexible blade and forward of the roll. 4. The robotic surface treating device as defined in claim 3, further comprising a platen extending from a bottom surface of the cartridge, the roll of cleaning material extending by the platen between the supply reel and the take-up reel. 5. The robotic surface treating device as defined in claim 4, further comprising a fluid inlet port for receiving a fluid supply. 6. The robotic surface treating device as defined in claim 4, wherein the flexible blade is suitable to direct dirt into the dust bin. 7. The robotic surface treating device as defined in claim 4, wherein the platen is compliant. 8. The robotic surface treating device as defined in claim 3, further comprising a fluid reservoir for providing a fluid to the roll of cleaning material. 9. The robotic surface treating device as defined in claim 3, further comprising a latching device for latching the cartridge into the housing. 10. The robotic surface treating device as defined in claim 3, wherein the cleaning material comprises an electrostatic dusting material. 11. The robotic surface treating device as defined in claim 3, wherein the cleaning material comprises a wet mop material. 12. A refill cleaning cartridge suitable for use with a robotic surface treating device of a type having a housing with an aperture sized and dimensioned to receive the cleaning cartridge, and a sweeper brush coupled to the housing, the refill cleaning cartridge comprising: a supply reel coupled to a first axle; a take-up reel coupled to another axle; and a roll of sheet cleaning material mounted on the reels; and a dust bin positionable between the sweeper brush and the roll of sheet cleaning material, the dust bin having a lid mounted thereon suitable to automatically pivot from a closed position to an open position as the lid moves into the housing of the cleaning device, and suitable to automatically pivot from an open position to a closed position as the lid moves out of the housing of the cleaning device; wherein the lid is configured to be forced open as the dust bin moves into the housing of the cleaning device; wherein there are means for moving said cleaning material relative to the surface to be treated; and whereby the cartridge, when used with a robotic surface treating device, is suitable to cause particulate matter on the surface to be removed from the surface and sent to the dust bin before the sheet cleaning material passes over where that particulate matter was previously on the surface. 