A virtual wheel provides a leg pair as a conveyance mechanism for a land vehicle. The virtual wheel propels the vehicle across a surface using a repetitive motion of the legs that contact the ground as would a wheel, due to their geometry. Vehicle embodiments include at least two-, three-, four- and six-wheeled vehicles, both transverse and in-line. Additionally, the invention provides a bipedal walking robot. One embodiment provides a robotic mule--a payload-carrying vehicle. The invention combines the flexible mobility of bipedal vehicles with the stability and functionality of very large-wheeled vehicles. Additionally, a bimodal conveyance mechanism readily converts between walking and rolling modes.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of conveying a vehicle bimodally, comprising: providing said vehicle with a plurality of bimodal conveyance mechanisms, each mechanism including: a plurality of radial members, each member having attached to a distal end a curved foot, each member attached to a common axle at a proximal end; allowing said members to pivot freely about said axle with said feet in parallel planes to each other so that said feet move relative to each other in a walking motion in a first mode; and forming a circle by attaching said feet to each other in a common plane to provide rolling motion in a second mode. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing any of said members and said feet with joints and collapsing said circle in a stowing mode. 3. The method of claim 1, said mechanism comprising two members, wherein a foot subtends an arc of approximately 180.degree., the radius of said arc approximating the length of said members. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: maintaining an offset between said feet to enable them to rotate in parallel planes; and eliminating said offset to allow them to be attached in a common plane. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein maintaining said offset comprises: offsetting said members from each other along said axle. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein eliminating said offset comprises: shifting any of said members along said axle until said feet are coplanar; wherein each proximal end includes a hub. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising moving the feet into a coplanar configuration wherein the hubs are shaped to engage each other. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising locking the hubs to one another rigidly so that said members form at least one rigid diametric spoke. 9. The method of claim 6, wherein a radial portion of each member is shaped to offset the foot relative to the hub. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein said member is connected to said hub by a hinged yoke. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising orienting a radial portion of each member so that the offsets position the feet in different planes, allowing for a walking motion. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising flipping the members about the axle using the hinged yoke so that direction of said offset is reversed wherein the feet are positioned in a common plane, allowing for a rolling motion. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising folding said foot into an arc subscribing less than 180.degree. by means of a hinge provided along the arc of each foot. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising allowing said foot to pivot relative to said member, wherein a connection between a member and a foot is hinged. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said foot includes at least one hinge. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said feet have attachment elements at their leading and trailing edges, and wherein attaching said feet to each other comprises: attaching a trailing edge of a first foot of a sequence of feet to the leading edge of a next foot of a sequence of feet; and attaching the leading edge of said first foot to the trailing edge of the last foot in said sequence; wherein a rigid coplanar circle is formed. 17. The method of claim 1, comprising n members, wherein n is a whole number greater than two, wherein said foot subtends an arc 360.degree./n. 