The present invention provides systems and methods for performing robotically-assisted surgical procedures on a patient. In particular, a three-component surgical system is provided that includes a non-sterile drive and control component, a sterilizable end effector or surgical tool and an intermediate connector component that includes mechanical elements for coupling the surgical tool with the drive and control component and for transferring motion and electrical signals therebetween. The drive and control component is shielded from the sterile surgical site, the surgical tool is sterilizable and disposable and the intermediate connector is sterilizable and reusable. In this manner, the intermediate connector can be sterilized after a surgical procedure without damaging the motors or electrical connections within the drive and control component of the robotic system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical assembly for transferring from a surgical drive component to a surgical tool, the assembly comprising: a) a housing coupled to the surgical drive component; b) an adaptor for receiving the surgical tool; c) a carriage coupled with the housing and with the adaptor, the carriage adapted to transfer motion from the surgical drive component through a plurality of motion feedthroughs to the adaptor; and d) a sterile drape between the carriage and the adaptor, the drape having at least one hole to allow the carriage to be coupled with the adaptor; wherein the adaptor is configured to transfer motion from the plurality of motion feedthroughs to the surgical tool to move the surgical tool in a plurality of degrees of freedom; the housing having a longitudinal Z-axis, the carriage configured to move along the Z-axis of the housing; the housing further comprising at least one carriage cable drive coupled to at least one rotatable pulley, wherein the at least one carriage cable drive is configured to move the carriage along the Z-axis of the housing. 2. The robotic surgical assembly of claim 1, the surgical drive component comprising a manipulator assembly including a manipulator arm having proximal and distal end portions. 3. The robotic surgical assembly of claim 1, further comprising a master manipulator for accepting commands from an operator, the surgical tool moved in response to the commands accepted by said master manipulator from the operator. 4. The robotic surgical assembly of claim 1, the surgical tool comprising an endoscope. 5. A robotic surgical assembly for transferring motion from a surgical drive component to a surgical tool, the assembly comprising: a) a housing coupled to the surgical drive component; b) an adaptor for receiving the surgical tool; c) a carriage coupled with the housing and with the adaptor, the carriage adapted to transfer motion from the surgical drive component through a plurality of motion feedthroughs to the adaptor, and d) a sterile drape between the carriage and the adaptor, the drape having at least one hole to allow the carriage to be coupled with the adaptor; wherein the adaptor is configured to transfer motion from the plurality of motion feedthroughs to the surgical tool to move the surgical tool in a plurality of degrees of freedom; the adaptor further comprising at least one electrical connector for transferring an electrical signal from the surgical drive component to the surgical tool. 6. A robotic surgical assembly for transferring motion from a surgical drive component to a surgical tool, the assembly comprising: a) a housing coupled to the surgical drive component; b) an adaptor for receiving the surgical tool; c) a carriage coupled with the housing and with the adaptor, the carriage adapted to transfer motion from the surgical drive component through a plurality of motion feedthroughs to the adaptor, and d) a sterile drape between the carriage and the adaptor, the drape having at least one hole to allow the carriage to be coupled with the adaptor; wherein the adaptor is configured to transfer motion from the plurality of motion feedthroughs to the surgical tool to move the surgical tool in a plurality of degrees of freedom; the adaptor further comprising at least one electrical connector for transferring an electrical signal from the surgical drive component to the surgical tool. 7. The robotic surgical assembly of claim 6, the electrical signal transferred from the surgical tool to the surgical drive component comprising indicating a number of times the surgical tool has been used. 8. The robotic surgical assembly of claim 7, the electrical signal indicating a number of times the tool has been coupled to the surgical assembly. 