Disclosed are a method, device kit, and automated system for simple, reproducible, and high-throughput quantification of mRNA from whole blood. More particularly, the method, device, kit and automated system involve combinations of leukocyte filters attached to oligo(dT)-immobilized multi-well plates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining a definite quantity of a target mRNA encoding a specific sequence in a blood sample comprising: (a) collecting whole blood; (b) administering an anticoagulant to the whole blood; (c) removing erythrocytes and blood components other than leukocytes from the whole blood and yielding the leukocytes; (d) lysing the leukocytes with a lysis buffer containing a known amount of synthesized poly-A spiked control RNA and producing a lysate comprising total mRNA containing the target mRNA and said synthesized poly-A spiked control RNA, wherein said synthesized poly-A spiked control RNA is non-homologous to the target mRNA from the whole blood and the amount of said synthesized poly-A spiked control RNA in the lysate does not significantly interfere with quantification of the target mRNA; (e) transferring the lysate to an oligo(dT)-immobilized plate and capturing the total mRNA and said synthesized poly-A spiked control RNA on said oligo(dT)-immobilized plate; (f) quantifying the target mRNA and the synthesized poly-A spiked control RNA captured on said oligo(dT)-immobilized plate, thereby obtaining the amount of the target mRNA and the amount of the synthesized poly-A spiked control RNA on said oligo(dT)-immobilized plate respectively; (g) determining the percent recovery of said synthesized poly-A spiked control RNA by dividing the amount of said synthesized poly-A spiked control RNA determined in step (f) by the known amount of said synthesized poly-A spiked control RNA in step (d); and (h) determining the definite quantity of said target mRNA in the blood sample by dividing the amount of said target mRNA determined in step (f) by the percent recovery of said synthesized poly-A spiked control RNA determined in step (g). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the erythrocytes and blood components are removed by filtration to yield the leukocytes on a filter membrane. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the filter membrane is attached to a multi-well filter plate. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the filter membrane is a polybutylene terephthalate (PBT) fibrous membrane. 5. The method of claim 2, additionally comprising washing the leukocytes on the filter membrane with hypotonic buffer to further remove erythrocytes and other blood components. 6. The method of claim 5, additionally comprising drying the filter membrane. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the filter membrane is washed with ethanol and subjected to vacuum aspiration until the filter membrane is dry. 8. The method of claim 2, wherein the lysate is produced by lysing said leukocytes on said filter membrane and transferring the lysate to the oligo(dT)-immobilized plate by centrifugation. 9. The method of claim 2, wherein the lysate is produced by lysing said leukocytes on said filter membrane and transferring the lysate to the oligo(dT)-immobilized plate by vacuum aspiration. 10. The method of claim 2, wherein the lysate is produced by lysing said leukocytes on said filter membrane and transferring the lysate to the oligo(dT)-immobilized plate by applying positive pressure. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the anticoagulant is heparin. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the whole blood is frozen and subsequently thawed prior to step (c). 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the erythrocytes and blood components are removed by filtration to yield the leukocytes on a plurality of filter membranes layered together. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the immobilized plate comprises a multi-well oligo(dT)-immobilized plate. 15. The method of claim 14, additionally comprising application of specific antisense primers to each well of the multi-well oligo(dT)-immobilized plate during said lysate transferring step. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the quantification of the target mRNA comprises synthesis of a cDNA from the target mRNA and amplification of the cDNA. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the target mRNA is .beta.-actin mRNA. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the target mRNA is CD4 mRNA. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the target mRNA is the mRNA of a translocation gene involved in leukemia. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the target mRNA is an mRNA of cancer-specific genes from micrometastatic cancer. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the whole blood comprises white blood cells infected by a virus and the target mRNA is a virus-derived mRNA from the infected white blood cells. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the virus is HIV and the virus-derived mRNA is HIV mRNA. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein said quantifying the target mRNA is the quantification of said HIV mRNA and is used to diagnose HIV. 24. The method of claim 21, wherein the virus is CMV and the virus-derived mRNA is CMV mRNA. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said quantifying the target mRNA is the quantification of said virus-derived mRNA and is used to diagnose CMV. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein said quantifying the target mRNA is the quantification of said virus-derived mRNA and is used to monitor blood banks for the presence of a viral disease. 27. The method of claim 21, wherein said quantifying the target mRNA is the quantification of said virus-derived mRNA and is used to study anti-viral drug sensitivity for said virus. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the target mRNA is an mRNA of apoptosis genes involved in leukemia. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the target mRNA is an mRNA of cytokines. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the target mRNA is an mRNA responsible for apoptosis development. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein the target mRNA is an mRNA of DNA-repair genes. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein said quantifying the target mRNA is the quantification of said mRNA of DNA-repair genes and is used to test the sensitivity of one of DNA-repair genes that encodes said mRNA to radiation. 33. The method of claim 1, wherein the target mRNA is an mRNA of allergen response genes. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein said quantifying the target mRNA is the quantification of said mRNA of allergen response genes and is used to test allergen stimulation. 35. A method of high throughput quantification of a target mRNA in a blood sample, comprising the steps of: (a) collecting whole blood; (b) administering an anticoagulant to the whole blood; (c) removing erythrocytes and blood components other than leukocytes from the whole blood by filtration and yielding leukocytes on a filter membrane; (d) lysing the leukocytes on said filter membrane with a lysis buffer comprising antisense primers specific for said target mRNA and producing a lysate comprising total mRNA comprising said target mRNA and said antisense primers wherein said target mRNA hybridizes with said antisense primers and forms a complex comprising said target mRNA and said antisense primers; (e) transferring the lysate to an oligo(dT)-immobilized plate to capture the complex comprising said target mRNA and said antisense primers on said oligo(dT)-immobilized plate wherein the oligo (dT) is immobilized on the wells of said oligo(dT)-immobilized plate; (f) removing non-hybridized materials from said oligo(dT)-immobilized plate; (g) adding a reverse transcriptase to the wells of said oligo(dT)-immobilized plate without addition of further antisense primers, thereby synthesizing cDNAs in a solution of the wells by extension of both the immobilized oligo(dT) and the antisense primers and forming an oligo(dT)-derived cDNA and an antisense primer-derived cDNA, wherein the oligo(dT)-derived cDNA remains immobilized to said plate, and the antisense primer-derived cDNA goes into the solution as a result of displacement by the oligo(dT)-derived cDNA without heat denaturation of said target mRNA and said antisense primer-derived cDNA; and (h) quantifying the target mRNA in the blood sample by amplifying the antisense primer-derived cDNA from the solution and quantifying the amplified product produced from the antisense primer-derived cDNA. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the blood sample further comprises different target mRNAs and the lysis buffer further comprises a plurality of different antisense primers specific for said different target mRNAs in the blood sample. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein the antisense primer-derived cDNA is removed from the plate and the plate with the immobilized oligo(dT)-derived cDNA is stored for future use. 