The present invention provides devices and methods for attachment of an endoluminal gastrointestinal device, such as an artificial stoma device, a gastrointestinal bypass sleeve device or an attachment cuff, within a patient's digestive tract for treatment of obesity.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An attachment system for attaching a device to the mucosal side of a wall of the gastrointestinal tract, the wall comprising a muscularis layer and a serosal layer, the system comprising: a gastrointestinal attachment cuff having a tubular body, a proximal end and a distal end; at least one tissue anchor for transmural attachment of the cuff to the mucosal side, the anchor comprising a tension element having a proximal end and a distal end for extending through the wall and at least one transverse retention surface configured for positioning in contact with serosal tissue, wherein the retention surface is attached near the distal end of the tension element, wherein the retention surface is transformable from a first, transversely reduced profile to a second, transversely enlarged profile; a gastric bypass tube for connection to the cuff, the bypass tube having a length of at least about 50 cm; and a first coupler on the attachment cuff configured for removably coupling to a second, complementary coupler on the gastric bypass tube. 2. An attachment system as in claim 1, wherein the tension element comprises suture. 3. An attachment system as in claim 1, wherein the tension element comprises a proximal end for extending through the mucosal layer and a distal end for carrying the transverse retention surface, wherein the transverse retention surface comprises a proximal surface of a serosal anchor. 4. An attachment system as in claim 3, wherein the serosal anchor comprises a T-tag. 5. An attachment system as in claim 3, wherein the serosal anchor comprises a disc. 6. An attachment system as in claim 3, wherein the serosal anchor is inflatable. 7. An attachment system as in claim 3, wherein the tension element has a length between the cuff and the transverse retention surface, and the length is from about 2 mm to about 6 mm. 8. An attachment system as in claim 3, wherein the tension element has a length between the cuff and the transverse retention surface, and the length is at least about 10 mm. 9. An attachment system as in claim 1, comprising at least six tissue anchors. 10. An attachment system as in claim 1, comprising at least ten tissue anchors. 11. An attachment system as in claim 1, wherein the tension element comprises a first material and the transverse retention surface comprises a second, different material. 12. An attachment system as in claim 1, wherein the at least one transverse retention surface comprises a first transverse retention surface extending in a first generally transverse direction with respect to a longitudinal axis of the tension element and a second transverse retention surface extending in a second generally transverse direction with respect to the longitudinal axis of the tension element after passing transmurally through the wall. 13. An attachment system as in claim 1, wherein the cuff comprises a lumen for passage of ingested contents therethrough, wherein the lumen has a diameter at the proximal end of the cuff that is substantially similar to a luminal diameter at the distal end of the cuff. 14. An attachment system as in claim 1, wherein the tension element is flexible. 15. An attachment system as in claim 1, wherein the first coupler comprises a retention surface of the cuff and the second coupler comprises a retention surface of the bypass tube. 16. An attachment system as in claim 15, wherein the retention surface of the cuff is a radially inwardly-extending surface and the retention surface of the bypass tube is a radially outwardly-extending surface. 17. An attachment system as in claim 16, wherein the inwardly-extending surface is an inwardly-extending lip. 18. An attachment system as in claim 1, wherein the first coupler interlocks with the second coupler with an overlapping interference fit. 19. An attachment system as in claim 1, wherein at least one of the first coupler and the second coupler comprises a hook. 20. An attachment system as in claim 1, wherein the first coupler forms a friction fit with the second coupler. 