The invention relates to methods and compositions for identifying soybean plants that are tolerant, have improved tolerance or are susceptible to Fusarium solani infection (the causative agent of sudden death syndrome or SDS). The methods use molecular genetic markers to identify, select and/or construct disease-tolerant plants or identify and counterselect disease-susceptible plants. Soybean plants that display tolerance or improved tolerance to Fusarium solani infection that are generated by the methods of the invention are also a feature of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying a first soybean plant or germplasm that displays tolerance or improved tolerance to Fusarium solani infection, the method comprising detecting in the first soybean plant or germplasm at least one allele of one or more marker locus that is associated with the tolerance or improved tolerance, wherein the one or more marker locus is selected from the group consisting of: (a) SATT300, SATT591, SATT155, SATT266, SATT282, SATT412, SATT506, $60602-TB, SATT142, SATT181, SATT549, SATT660, SATT339 and SATT255; (b) marker locus of (b) displays a genetic recombination frequency of less than about 10% with the marker locus of (a); (c) a marker locus localizing within a chromosome interval flanked by and including SATT300 and SATT155; (d) a marker locus localizing within a chromosome interval flanked by and including SATT282 and SATT506; and (e) a marker locus localizing within a chromosome interval flanked by and including SATT549 and SATT255. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more marker locus of (a) is selected from the group consisting of SATT591, SATT155, SATT266, SATT412, SATT506, SATT549, SATT660, SATT339 and SATT255. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more marker locus associated with tolerance or improved tolerance is selected from the marker loci of (a) and (b). 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more marker locus associated with tolerance or improved tolerance is a plurality of loci selected from the marker loci of (a) and (b). 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more marker locus associated with tolerance, improved tolerance or susceptibility is selected from marker loci localizing within the chromosome intervals of (c), (d) and (e). 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more marker locus associated with tolerance or improved tolerance is a plurality of loci selected from marker loci localizing within the chromosome intervals of (c), (d) and (e). 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the germplasm is a soybean line or soybean variety. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the tolerance or improved tolerance susceptibility is assayed in a population of soybean that is naturally infected with the Fusarium solani. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the Fusarium solani is Fusarium solani f. sp. glycines. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the tolerance or improved tolerance is a non-race specific tolerance or a non-race specific improved tolerance. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting comprises detecting at least one allelic form of a polymorphic simple sequence repeat (SSR) or a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting comprises amplifying the marker locus or a portion of the marker locus and detecting the resulting amplified marker amplicon. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the amplifying comprises: a) admixing an amplification primer or amplification primer pair with a nucleic acid isolated from the first soybean plant or germplasm, wherein the primer or primer pair is complementary or partially complementary to at least a portion of the marker locus, and is capable of initiating DNA polymerization by a DNA polymerase using the soybean nucleic acid as a template; and, b) extending the primer or primer pair in a DNA polymerization reaction comprising a DNA polymerase and a template nucleic acid to generate at least one amplicon. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the nucleic acid is selected from DNA and RNA. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one SNP allele is detected using allele specific hybridization (ASH) analysis. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein the amplifying comprises employing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or ligase chain reaction (LCR) using a nucleic acid isolated from the first soybean plant or germplasm as a template in the PCR or LCR. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one allele is a favorable allele that positively correlates with tolerance or improved tolerance. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one allele comprises two or more alleles. 19. The method of claim 1, comprising selecting the first soybean plant or germplasm, or selecting a progeny of the first soybean plant or germplasm. 20. The method of claim 19, comprising crossing the selected first soybean plant or germplasm with a second soybean plant or germplasm. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the second soybean plant or germplasm comprises an exotic soybean strain or an elite soybean strain. 