An autonomous coverage robot includes a chassis having forward and rearward portions and a drive system carried by the chassis. The forward portion of the chassis defines a substantially rectangular shape. The robot includes a cleaning assembly mounted on the forward portion of the chassis and a bin disposed adjacent the cleaning assembly and configured to receive debris agitated by the cleaning assembly. A bin cover is pivotally attached to a lower portion of the chassis and configured to rotate between a first, closed position providing closure of an opening defined by the bin and a second, open position providing access to the bin opening. The robot includes a body attached to the chassis and a handle disposed on an upper portion of the body. A bin cover release is actuatable from substantially near the handle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous coverage robot comprising: a chassis having a substantially rectangular forward portion having a front edge and a substantially arcuate rearward portion defined by a radius forming a profile circle; a rectangular bumper having a flat forward portion and flat lateral sides, the rectangular bumper disposed along the front edge of the chassis and along lateral sides of the chassis such that the rectangular bumper is about the rectangular forward portion of the chassis on three sides, the bumper movable in response to a bump in a direction of travel and in a direction perpendicular to the direction of travel; a proximity sensor in the flat forward portion of the bumper and/or in at least one of the flat lateral sides the bumper, along a lateral side of the chassis; bump sensors connected to the bumper, each bump sensor configured to detect movement of the bumper in a direction of travel and perpendicular to the direction of travel; a drive system along the rearward portion of the chassis, the drive system comprising right and left differentially driven drive wheels along a drive axis substantially along or rearward of a parallel diameter of the profile circle; an idler wheel within the profile circle, along a transverse axis parallel to the drive axis; and a cleaning assembly along the forward portion of the chassis such that a substantial portion of the cleaning assembly is outside of the profile circle, the cleaning assembly comprising a roller brush adjacent the front edge of the chassis, the bumper disposed about three sides of the cleaning assembly, and supported between the flat lateral sides of the rectangular bumper and the cleaning assembly cantilevered above the cleaning surface forward of the idler wheel to clean corners ahead of the robot, and the proximity sensor and the bump sensors each arranged actuatable in a sideways direction to detect a wall parallel to one of the lateral sides the flat lateral sides of the bumper ahead of the arcuate rear portion of the chassis when the robot turns about the drive axis. 2. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 1, wherein the robot has a dominant side and only one proximity sensor is disposed on the dominant side of the robot. 3. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 1, further comprising only two cliff sensors disposed along a forward portion of the robot. 4. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 1, further comprising cliff sensors suspended at respective right and left edges of the bumper. 5. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 1, further comprising a battery carried by the chassis rearward of the cleaning assembly, the battery powering the drive system and the cleaning assembly, the cleaning assembly further comprising a roller brush motor to rotate the roller brush. 6. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 5, wherein the battery is disposed between the right and left driven wheels. 7. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 1, wherein the drive axis is equal to or less than 9 cm rearward of the cleaning assembly. 8. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 1, wherein a wheelbase is defined between the drive axis and the idler wheel and the wheelbase is substantially equal to or greater than one third of the circular radius defining the profile circle. 9. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 1, wherein the bump sensors detect bumper movement independently in the direction of travel and in the direction perpendicular to the direction of travel, each bump sensor activatable in each direction without activation in the remaining direction. 10. An autonomous coverage robot comprising: a chassis having a substantially rectangular forward portion having a front edge and a substantially arcuate rearward portion defined by a radius forming a profile circle; a rectangular bumper having a flat forward portion and flat lateral sides, the rectangular bumper disposed along the front edge of the chassis and along lateral sides of the chassis such that the rectangular bumper is about the rectangular forward portion of the chassis on three sides, the bumper movable in response to a bump in a direction of travel and in a direction perpendicular to the direction of travel; a proximity sensor in the flat forward portion of the bumper and/or in at least one of the flat lateral sides the bumper, along a lateral side of the chassis; bump sensors connected to the bumper, each bump sensor configured to detect movement of the bumper in a direction of travel and perpendicular to the direction of travel; a drive system along the rearward portion of the chassis, the drive system comprising right and left differentially driven drive wheels along a drive axis substantially along or rearward of a parallel diameter of the profile circle; an idler wheel within the profile circle, along a transverse axis parallel to the drive axis; a cleaning assembly along the forward portion of the chassis such that a substantial portion of the cleaning assembly is outside of the profile circle, the cleaning assembly comprising a roller brush adjacent the front edge of the chassis, the bumper disposed about three sides of the cleaning assembly, and supported between the flat lateral sides of the rectangular bumper and the cleaning assembly cantilevered above the cleaning surface forward of the idler wheel to clean corners ahead of the robot, and the proximity sensor and the bump sensors each arranged actuatable in a sideways direction to detect a wall parallel to one of the lateral sides the flat lateral sides of the bumper ahead of the arcuate rear portion of the chassis when the robot turns about the drive axis, a battery carried by the chassis rearward of the cleaning assembly, the battery powering the drive system and the cleaning assembly, the cleaning assembly further comprising a roller brush motor to rotate the roller brush, and a bin rearward of the cleaning assembly to receive debris agitated by the cleaning assembly, wherein the center of gravity of the robot is between the drive axis and the idler wheel, the center of gravity of the robot including a variable mass of debris within the bin, a mass of the roller brush motor, and a mass of the battery. 11. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 10, wherein the drive system further comprises right and left drive motors to drive the respective right and left driven wheels and the center of gravity of the robot is forward of the drive axis. 12. An autonomous coverage robot comprising: a chassis having a substantially rectangular forward portion having a front edge and a substantially arcuate rearward portion defined by a radius forming a profile circle; a rectangular bumper along the front edge of the chassis and along lateral sides of the chassis, the bumper movable in response to a bump; a proximity sensor in the bumper; bump sensors connected to the bumper, each bump sensor configured to detect movement of the bumper in a direction of travel and a direction perpendicular to the direction of travel; a bumper guide that guides the bumper relative to the bump sensors to detect bumper movement independently in the direction of travel and in the direction perpendicular to the direction of travel and capable of detection in each direction without activation in the remaining direction; a drive system comprising right and left differentially driven drive wheels along a drive axis extending through the rearward portion of the chassis; an idler wheel along a transverse axis parallel to the drive axis; and a cleaning assembly along the forward portion of the chassis such that a substantial portion of the cleaning assembly is outside of the profile circle, the cleaning assembly comprising a roller brush rearward of the bumper, the cleaning assembly cantilevered above the cleaning surface forward of the idler wheel to clean corners ahead of the robot, and the proximity sensor and the bump sensors each arranged to detect a wall parallel to one of the lateral sides of the chassis. 13. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 12, wherein the robot has a dominant side and only one proximity sensor is disposed on the dominant side of the robot. 14. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 12, further comprising only two cliff sensors disposed along a forward portion of the robot. 15. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 12, further comprising two cliff sensors suspended at respective right and left edges of the bumper. 16. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 12, further comprising a battery carried by the chassis rearward of the cleaning assembly, the battery powering the drive system and the cleaning assembly, the cleaning assembly further comprising a roller brush motor to rotate the roller brush. 17. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 16, wherein the battery is disposed between the right and left driven wheels. 18. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 12, wherein the bumper is movable in response to a bump in a direction of travel and in a direction perpendicular to the direction of travel. 19. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 12, wherein the bump sensors detect bumper movement independently in the direction of travel and in the direction perpendicular to the direction of travel, each bump sensor activatable in each direction without activation in the remaining direction. 20. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 12, wherein the bumper guide is defined in a portion of the chassis. 21. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 12, wherein the bumper guide influences a direction of movement of the rectangular bumper under displacement. 22. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 21, wherein the bumper guide translates rotational forces on the rectangular bumper into translation of the rectangular bumper. 23. The autonomous coverage robot of claim 12, wherein the bump sensors are disposed at the corners of the substantially rectangular forward portion of the chassis, with at least one of the bump sensors disposed on each side of each corner. 