The invention can be summarized as follows: A collision protection device for a patient examination table of a medical X-ray device is provided for the purpose of assuring simple and reliable avoidance of collisions between very fast moving device parts of a medical X-ray device and a patient, which collision protection device has a protective element made of an X-ray transparent material, wherein the collision protection device can be arranged relative to the patient examination table and brought into a position such that in said position the protective element mechanically shields at least a part of the lying surface of the patient examination table.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A collision protection device for a patient examination table of a medical X-ray device, comprising: a protective element made of an X-ray transparent material that mechanically shields at least a part of the patient examination table; a feeler; a collision sensor, wherein the collision sensor is arranged in the feeler; and a stand or a base directly connected to the collision protection device that decouples the collision protection device from the patient examination table. 2. The collision protection device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the protective element is transparent. 3. The collision protection device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a securing element that couples the protective element to the patient examination table, wherein the securing element is a fixing post. 4. The collision protection device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the protective element is a longitudinally sectioned cylinder. 5. The collision protection device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the protective element is a cylinder. 6. The collision protection device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the protective element is an elliptical paraboloid, a half-ellipsoid, or a half-sphere. 7. The collision protection device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the protective element is made from plastic. 8. The collision protection device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the protective element is coated with a flexible material. 9. The collision protection device as claimed in claim 8, wherein the flexible material is a foam material. 10. The collision protection device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a signal output device. 11. The collision protection device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the feeler is configured to generate a light or fluorescence signal if the sensor reports a contact or collision with another object. 12. An X-ray device, comprising: a movable robotic arm; an X-ray emitter arranged on the movable robotic arm; an X-ray detector arranged on the movable robotic arm; a patient examination table; and a collision protection device comprising: a protective element made of an X-ray transparent material that mechanically shields at least a part of the patient examination table; a feeler; a collision sensor, wherein the collision sensor is arranged in the feeler; and a stand or a base directly connected to the collision protection device that decouples the collision protection device from the patient examination table. 13. The X-ray device as claimed in claim 12, wherein the robotic arm is a C-arm and the X-ray emitter and the X-ray detector are disposed at opposite ends of the C-arm. 14. The collision protection device as claimed in claim 13, wherein the feeler is fixed to the surface of the C-arm. 