An autonomous floor cleaning robot includes a transport drive and control system arranged for autonomous movement of the robot over a floor for performing cleaning operations. The robot chassis carries a first cleaning zone comprising cleaning elements arranged to suction loose particulates up from the cleaning surface and a second cleaning zone comprising cleaning elements arraigned to apply a cleaning fluid onto the surface and to thereafter collect the cleaning fluid up from the surface after it has been used to clean the surface. The robot chassis carries a supply of cleaning fluid and a waste container for storing waste materials collected up from the cleaning surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surface treatment robot comprising: a robot body having forward and rear ends; a differential drive system mounted on the robot body and configured to maneuver the robot over a cleaning surface; a controller in communication with the drive motor and configured to differentially steer the robot and be capable of maneuvering the robot to pivot in place; a proximity sensor responsive to a potential obstacle forward of the robot, wherein the controller is configured to alter a heading setting in response to a signal received from the proximity sensor indicating a potential obstacle; a cliff sensor responsive to a potential cliff forward of the robot, wherein the controller is configured to alter the heading setting in response to a signal received from the cliff sensor indicating a potential cliff; a liquid applicator housed in the robot body and configured to dispense a liquid onto the cleaning surface while the robot is moving in a direction of forward travel of the robot and suspend dispersion of the liquid while moving in a reverse direction of forward travel of the robot; and a squeegee vacuum assembly housed in the robot body and comprising: a squeegee attached to the robot body and formed with a longitudinal ridge disposed proximate to the cleaning surface and extending across a cleaning width for providing a liquid collection zone at a forward edge of the ridge; a liquid collection zone defined by the robot body, the longitudinal ridge collecting waste liquid within the liquid collection zone as the robot moves in a forward direction of travel; a vacuum chamber partially formed by the squeegee disposed proximate to the longitudinal ridge and extending across the cleaning width, the vacuum chamber in fluid communication with the liquid collection zone by a plurality of suction ports defined through the squeegee; and a vacuum for generating a negative air pressure within the vacuum chamber for drawing waste liquid collection within the liquid collection zone into the vacuum chamber; wherein the cleaning robot has a mass of less than about 10 kg, there is between about 1 cm and about 10 cm of cleaning width for every 1 kg of cleaning robot mass, and the cleaning robot has an average drag force of 30-40% of the thrust provided by the drive system. 2. The surface treatment robot of claim 1, further comprising a liquid storage tank comprising at least one of a waste storage container in fluid communication with the vacuum chamber or a cleaning fluid storage container in fluid communication with the liquid applicator. 3. The surface treatment robot of claim 2, wherein the liquid storage tank comprises both a waste storage container in fluid communication with the vacuum chamber and a cleaning fluid storage container in fluid communication with the liquid applicator. 4. The surface treatment robot of claim 2, wherein the liquid storage tank is removably attached to the robot body. 5. The surface treatment robot of claim 1, wherein the left and right drive wheels are positioned along an axis substantially perpendicular to a fore-aft axis of the robot. 6. The surface treatment robot of claim 5, wherein the left and right drive wheels are positioned along an axis offset from a central point of the robot. 7. The surface treatment robot of claim 5, wherein the robot body defines a substantially circular outer surface, and wherein the drive wheels are configured to rotate the robot about a central vertical axis such that pivoting the robot in place results in the outer surface of the robot maintaining a substantially constant distance from an obstacle. 8. The surface treatment robot of claim 1, further comprising a user input control panel disposed on an external surface thereof. 9. The surface treatment robot of claim 1, wherein the liquid applicator is attached to the robot body as a removably attachable module. 10. A surface treatment robot comprising: a robot body having forward and rear ends; right and left drive wheels rotatably mounted on the robot body and spaced offset from a transverse axis defined perpendicular to a forward drive direction of the robot over a cleaning surface; right and left drive motors coupled to the corresponding drive wheels; a controller in communication with the drive motor and configured to differentially steer the robot and be capable of maneuvering the robot to pivot in place; a proximity sensor responsive to a potential obstacle forward of the robot, wherein the controller is configured to alter a heading setting in response to a signal received from the proximity sensor indicating a potential obstacle; a cliff sensor responsive to a potential cliff forward of the robot, wherein the controller is configured to alter the heading setting in response to a signal received from the cliff sensor indicating a potential cliff; a first debris collector comprising: a plenum defined by the robot body and configured for sucking debris from the cleaning surface; a waste compartment in fluid communication with the plenum; and a vacuum blower in fluid communication with the plenum and configured to pull debris up through the plenum and into the waste compartment; a liquid applicator housed in the robot body and configured to dispense liquid directly onto the cleaning surface while the robot is moving in a direction of forward travel of the robot and suspend dispersion of the liquid while moving in a reverse direction of forward travel of the robot; a second debris collector comprising: a driven cleaning head rotatably coupled to the robot body; and a bin configured to collect debris removed from the cleaning surface by the cleaning head; and a squeegee vacuum assembly housed in the robot body and comprising: a squeegee attached to the robot body and formed with a longitudinal ridge disposed of proximate to the cleaning surface and extending across a cleaning width for providing a liquid collection zone at a forward edge of the ridge; a liquid collection zone defined by the robot body, the longitudinal ridge collecting waste liquid within the liquid collection zone as the robot moves in a forward direction of travel; and a vacuum chamber partially formed by the squeegee disposed proximate to the longitudinal ridge and extending across the cleaning width, the vacuum chamber in fluid communication with the liquid collection zone by a plurality of suction ports defined through the squeegee, wherein the vacuum blower generates a negative air pressure within the vacuum chamber for drawing waste liquid collected within the liquid collection zone into the vacuum chamber; wherein the cleaning robot has a mass of less than about 10 kg, there is between about 1 cm and about 10 cm of cleaning width for every 1 kg of cleaning robot mass, and the cleaning robot has an average drag force of 30-40% of the thrust provided by the drive wheels. 11. The surface treatment robot of claim 10, further comprising a liquid storage tank comprising at least one of a waste storage container in fluid communication with the vacuum chamber or a cleaning fluid storage container in fluid communication with the liquid applicator. 12. The surface treatment robot of claim 11, wherein the liquid storage tank comprises both a waste storage container in fluid communication with the vacuum chamber and cleaning fluid storage container in fluid communication with the liquid applicator. 13. The surface treatment robot of claim 11, wherein the liquid storage tank is removably attached to the robot body. 14. The surface treatment robot of claim 10, wherein the left and right drive wheels are positioned along an axis substantially perpendicular to a fore-aft axis of the robot. 15. The surface treatment robot of claim 14, wherein the left and right drive wheels are positioned along an axis offset from a central point of the robot. 16. The surface treatment robot of claim 14, wherein the robot body defines a substantially circular outer surface, and wherein the drive wheels are configured to rotate the robot about a central vertical axis such that pivoting the robot in place results in the outer surface of the robot maintaining a substantially constant distance from an obstacle. 17. The surface treatment robot of claim 10, further comprising a user input control panel disposed on an external surface thereof. 18. The surface treatment robot of claim 10, wherein the liquid applicator is attached to the robot body as a removably attachable module. 