An apparatus and associated method is provided for individually positioning first and second input links of a four-bar linkage to move first and second follower links pivotally joined therebetween in order to move a chuck supported by one of the follower links between a retracted position and an extended position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end effector apparatus for a component handling assembly comprising: a first linkage comprising: opposing first and second input links that are journaled for rotation; first and second positioners for selectively rotating the first and second input links, respectively; and first and second follower links pivotally joined together, wherein the first follower link is pivotally connected to the first input link, a first chuck is supported by the second follower link, and the second input link is pivotally connected to the second follower link; and a second linkage comprising: opposing third and fourth input links that are journaled for rotation; third and fourth positioners for selectively rotating the third and fourth input links, respectively; and third and fourth follower links pivotally joined together, wherein the third follower link is pivotally connected to the third input link, a second chuck is supported by the fourth follower link, and the fourth input link is pivotally connected to the fourth follower link. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first and second input links are selectively moveable to move the first chuck, in turn, between a retracted position and an extended position, and wherein the third and fourth input links are selectively moveable to move the second chuck, in turn, between a retracted position and an extended position independently of the first chuck. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the first chuck and second chuck are selectively moveable in the retracted positions to an opposed facing relationship in order to operably engage opposing sides of a component interposed therebetween. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the chucks operably engage the component with a vacuum force, and wherein a component can be handed off from one of the chucks to the other of the chucks by selectively communicating the vacuum force to one or both of the chucks. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first and second input links and first and second follower links mirror the third and fourth input links and third and fourth follower links. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the chucks are moveable toward each other and away from each other while remaining in collinear alignment with each other in the retracted positions. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first and second positioners comprise first and second motors. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the first input link is fixed in rotation with a first shaft of the first motor and the second input link is fixed in rotation with a second shaft of the second motor, the first and second shafts being operably rotatable around a collinear axis of rotation. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first and second follower links are joined together at a first pivot, the first chuck being supported by the second follower link remotely from the first pivot. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the second input link is joined to the second follower link at a second pivot between the first pivot and the first chuck. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the third and fourth follower links are joined together at a third pivot, the second chuck being supported by the fourth follower link remotely from the third pivot, and the fourth input link joined to the fourth follower link at a fourth pivot between the third pivot and the second chuck. 12. A method for flipping a component with a pick and place material handling end effector comprising: individually positioning first and second input links of a first linkage to move first and second follower links pivotally joined therebetween in order to move a first chuck supported by one of the follower links between a retracted position and an extended position; and individually positioning third and fourth input links of a second linkage to move third and fourth follower links pivotally joined therebetween in order to move a second chuck supported by one of the third and fourth follower links between a retracted position and an extended position independently of the first chuck. 13. The method of claim 12 comprising individually positioning the first and second input links to move the first chuck to the extended position, and grippingly engaging a component with the first chuck. 14. The method of claim 13, before the grippingly engaging step, comprising translationally moving at least one of the first linkage and the component to place them adjacent to one another. 15. The method of claim 13, before the grippingly engaging step, comprising individually positioning the third and fourth input links to move the second chuck to the retracted position. 16. The method of claim 13 comprising: individually positioning the third and fourth input links to move the second chuck to the retracted position; and after the grippingly engaging step, individually positioning the first and second input links to move the first chuck to the retracted position. 17. The method of claim 16 comprising positioning at least one of the first and second input links and the third and fourth input links and grippingly engaging opposing sides of the component with both chucks simultaneously. 18. The method of claim 17, following the grippingly engaging with both chucks simultaneously step, comprising releasing the gripping engagement by the first chuck. 19. The method of claim 18, comprising individually positioning at least one of the first and second input links and the third and fourth input links to move the second chuck to an extended position. 20. The method of claim 19 comprising releasing the gripping engagement of the second chuck to place the component in a flipped orientation with respect to its orientation when it was picked during the grippingly engaging step. 