A printhead assembly has an elongate casing. A plurality of printhead modules is mounted serially on the casing. Each printhead module has a fluid channel member defining a number of channels extending along a longitudinal axis of the casing. A printhead tile defines a fluid distribution assembly mounted on the fluid channel member in fluid communication with the channels. The fluid distribution assembly is defined by a laminated structure of the printhead tile. A micro-electromechanical printhead integrated circuit is mounted on the tile to receive fluid from the fluid distribution assembly. The fluid distribution assembly is configured to supply the integrated circuit with at least ink and to adjust fluid flow to compensate for microscopic nozzles of the printhead integrated circuit. A securing arrangement is on the fluid channel member to secure each module to the casing in a replaceable manner and drive circuitry is arranged in the casing and connected to the printhead integrated circuits to control operation of the printhead integrated circuits.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly that comprises an elongate casing; a plurality of printhead modules mounted serially on the casing, each printhead module comprising a fluid channel member defining a number of channels extending along a longitudinal axis of the casing; a printhead tile defining a fluid distribution assembly mounted on the fluid channel member in fluid communication with the channels, the fluid distribution assembly being defined by a laminated structure of the printhead tile; a micro-electromechanical printhead integrated circuit mounted on the tile to receive fluid from the fluid distribution assembly, the fluid distribution assembly being configured to supply the integrated circuit with at least ink and to adjust fluid flow to compensate for microscopic nozzles of the printhead integrated circuit; and a securing arrangement on the fluid channel member to secure each module to the casing in a replaceable manner; and drive circuitry arranged in the casing and connected to the printhead integrated circuits to control operation of the printhead integrated circuits. 2. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, in which the drive circuitry includes a printed circuit board mounted on a wall of the casing and connected to the printhead integrated circuits with flexible printed circuit boards. 3. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, in which the elongate casing defines a longitudinally extending channel in which the printhead modules are received, the printhead integrated circuits being oriented on the tiles so that end portions of consecutive printhead integrated circuits overlap. 4. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 3, in which the fluid channel member of each printhead module is formed by injection molding a material having a coefficient of thermal expansion sufficiently low to maintain printing accuracy under operational conditions. 5. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 4, in which the fluid channel member is formed of a body portion that defines open channels or grooves and a lid portion to close the open channels or grooves. 6. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, in which the fluid channel member and printhead tile are configured to deliver at least one of an air supply and an ink fixative to the printhead integrated circuit. 7. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, in which the laminated structure of the printhead tile is such that the fluid distribution assembly is a fluid distribution stack having a plurality of layers defining converging fluid paths. 