There is also provided an apparatus for use on an automated pipette machine for transmitting pressure changes produced by a pump on the machine to a pipette nozzle. The apparatus comprises a housing defining a chamber a first conduit and a second conduit. The first conduit extends into the chamber and has a first opening positioned in the chamber. The first conduit is fluidically connectible to the nozzle. The second conduit extends into the chamber and has a first opening positioned in the chamber. The second conduit is fluidically connectible to the pump. The first opening of the first conduit is positioned above the first opening of the second conduit. The chamber defines at least a selected volume between the height of the first opening of the first conduit and the height of the first opening of the second conduit.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for use on an automated pipette machine for transmitting pressure changes produced by a pump on the machine to a pipette nozzle, the apparatus comprising: a housing defining a chamber having a first volume and a second volume, wherein the second volume contains a gas; a first conduit extending into the chamber and having a first opening positioned in the second volume of the chamber, wherein the first conduit is fluidically connectible to the nozzle; and a second conduit extending into the chamber and having a liquid submergible first opening positioned in the first volume of the chamber and wherein the pump is fluidically connected to the second conduit and draws liquid into the liquid submergible first opening. 2. An apparatus for use on an automated pipette machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first opening of the first conduit is positioned at least a selected height above the first opening of the second conduit, wherein the selected height is based in part to permit breakage of bubbles in the chamber while inhibiting liquid from bubble breakage to enter the first conduit. 3. An apparatus for use on an automated pipette machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first opening of the first conduit is positioned above the first opening of the second conduit. 4. An apparatus for use on an automated pipette machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein liquid is provided in the first volume of the chamber. 