Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including, but not limited to, critical dimension and overlay misregistration. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling layers alignment in a multi-layer sample, the method comprising the steps of: (i) providing a measurement site on said sample including two regions located one above the other in two different layers, respectively, said regions containing patterned structures, wherein said site is located on an upper surface of the sample; (ii) illuminating said site and a bottom surface of the sample with electromagnetic radiation and detecting a diffraction efficiency of radiation diffracted from the patterned structures indicative of a lateral shift between the patterned structures; (iii) analyzing said diffraction efficiency to determine an existing lateral shift between the layers; (iv) detecting the electromagnetic radiation propagating from the bottom surface of the sample; and (v) determining a presence of defects on the bottom surface of the sample from the electromagnetic radiation propagating from the bottom surface of the sample. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing at least one additional site on said sample including two regions located one above the other in the two different layers, respectively, said regions in said at least one additional site containing patterned structures, illuminating said at least one additional site with the electromagnetic radiation, detecting a diffraction efficiency of radiation diffracted from the patterned structures in said at least one additional site, and analyzing the diffraction efficiencies obtained in said site and said at least one additional site to determine the existing lateral shift between the layers. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said detecting the diffraction efficiency comprises measuring said diffraction efficiency as a function of wavelength. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said detecting the diffraction efficiency comprises measuring said diffraction efficiency as a function of angle of incidence. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said illuminating comprises illuminating said site with polarized light with different states of polarization. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said multi-layer sample is a semiconductor wafer. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said patterned structures are two-dimensional. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said illuminating comprises illuminating said site with polarized light with different states of polarization. 9. A method, comprising: directing electromagnetic radiation toward an area of an upper surface of a specimen and a bottom surface of the specimen, wherein the area on the upper surface comprises features formed on a first level of the specimen and features formed on a second level of the specimen, and wherein the first level is formed above the second level; detecting the electromagnetic radiation scattered from the area on the upper surface of the specimen and the electromagnetic radiation propagating from the bottom surface of the specimen, wherein said directing the electromagnetic radiation toward the area on the upper surface and said detecting the electromagnetic radiation scattered from the area on the upper surface are performed using spectroscopic scatterometry; determining a measure of displacement of a lateral position of the features on the first level of the specimen with respect to a lateral position of the features on the second level of the specimen from the scattered electromagnetic radiation; and determining a presence of defects on the bottom surface of the specimen from the electromagnetic radiation propagating from the bottom surface of the specimen. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the specimen comprises a substrate suitable for fabrication of semiconductor devices. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising determining a property of the features on the first level or the second level from the scattered electromagnetic radiation, wherein the property comprises a period, a width, a step height, a sidewall angle, or a profile. 12. A method, comprising: directing electromagnetic radiation toward an area on an upper surface of a specimen and a bottom surface of the specimen, wherein the area on the upper surface comprises features formed on a first level of the specimen and features formed on a second level of the specimen, and wherein the first level is formed above the second level; detecting the electromagnetic radiation scattered from the area on the upper surface of the specimen and the electromagnetic radiation propagating from the bottom surface of the specimen, wherein said directing the electromagnetic radiation toward the area on the upper surface and said detecting the electromagnetic radiation scattered from the area on the upper surface are performed using spectroscopic ellipsometry; determining a measure of displacement of a lateral position of the features on the first level of the specimen with respect to a lateral position of the features on the second level of the specimen from the scattered electromagnetic radiation; and determining a presence of defects on the bottom surface of the specimen from the electromagnetic radiation propagating from the bottom surface of the specimen. 13. A method, comprising: directing electromagnetic radiation toward an area on an upper surface of a specimen and a bottom surface of the specimen, wherein the area on the upper surface comprises a periodic pattern of features formed on a first level of the specimen and a periodic pattern of features formed on a second level of the specimen, and wherein the first level is formed above the second level; detecting the electromagnetic radiation diffracted from the area on the upper surface of the specimen and the electromagnetic radiation propagating from the bottom surface of the specimen; determining a measure of displacement of a lateral position of the features on the first level of the specimen with respect to a lateral position of the features on the second level of the specimen from the diffracted electromagnetic radiation; determining a property of the features on the first level or the second level from the diffracted electromagnetic radiation, wherein the property comprises a period, a width, a step height, a sidewall angle, or a profile; and determining a presence of defects on the bottom surface of the specimen from the electromagnetic radiation propagating from the bottom surface of the specimen. 