A system for process control comprises a server digital data processor and a client digital data processor that are coupled by a network, such as the Internet or an Intranet. The server digital data processor, which is additionally coupled to a control/sensing device and any associated interface equipment (collectively, referred to as "process control apparatus"), includes a command processor that transfers information between the network and the process control apparatus. The client digital data processor includes an information client (e.g., a so-called Internet web browser) capable of requesting and receiving an applet from the server digital data processor. The information client, further, defines a hardware-independent and operating system-independent virtual machine environment within the client digital data processor. The client digital data processor executes, within that virtual machine environment, an applet for configuring the client digital data processor as a "process controller" that establishes communications over the network with the command processor and that monitors and/or controls the process control apparatus via those communications.
Claims We claim: 1. A system that controls operational parameters and/or monitors one or more characteristics of a process (hereinafter referred to as "process control") employed in a factory and/or facility (hereinafter referred to as a "plant") by the manufacturing, service, environmental or other industry, comprising A. a plurality of control/sensing devices that monitor and/or control a plant process, B. a server digital data processor that is coupled to the plurality of control/sensing devices and that provides an interface for communicating with them, C. a digital data processor coupled to the plurality of control/sensing devices via the server digital data processor, the digital data processor executing a program that configures the digital data processor as a controller for the plant process for monitoring and/or controlling the one or more control/sensing devices, the program comprising any of (i) a JAVA applet, (ii) an intermediate language program, (iii) a byte code program, (iv) a downloaded program that executes in a virtual machine environment, (v) a program that executes in a web browser, D. the server digital data processor responding to a request for a data value that controls and/or reflects the status of at least one of the plurality of control/sensing devices by transmitting to the digital data processor a keyword followed by that data value, and transmitting one or more subsequent changes thereto. 2. A system of claim 1, wherein the program configures the digital data processor to generate the request. 3. A system according to claim 2, wherein the program configures the digital data processor to report the data value and subsequent changes thereto. 4. A system of claim 1, wherein the program configures the digital data processor to process the data value and subsequent changes thereto. 5. A system according to claim 1, wherein the digital data processor and the server digital data processor are coupled by way of a network. 6. A system according to claim 1, wherein the digital data processor generates a request for the program. 7. A system according to claim 1, wherein the server digital data processor maintains one or more objects that at least one of control and reflect a status of at least one of the plurality of control/sensing devices. 8. A system that controls operational parameters and/or monitors one or more characteristics of a process (hereinafter referred to as "process control") employed in a factory and/or facility (hereinafter referred to as a "plant") by the manufacturing, service, environmental or other industry, comprising A. a plurality of control/sensing devices that monitor and/or control a plant process, B. a server digital data processor that is coupled to the one or more control/sensing devices via an interface, C. a client digital data processor in communication coupling with the plurality of control/sensing devices and with the server digital data processor, D. the client digital data processor executing a program that configures the client digital data processor as a controller for the plant process, the program comprising any of (i) a JAVA applet, (ii) an intermediate language program, (iii) a byte code program, (iv) a downloaded program that executes in a virtual machine environment, (v) a program that executes in a web browser, E. at least one of the server digital data processor and the interface associated with the one or more control/sensing devices (i) maintaining an object that stores a data value that controls and/or reflects the status of the one or more control/sensing devices, and (ii) responding to a request for that object by transmitting to the client digital data processor a keyword followed by the stored data value, and similarly transmitting one or more subsequent changes thereto. 9. A system according to claim 8, wherein the client digital data processor and the interface are coupled by way of a further digital data processor. 10. A system according to claim 9, wherein the interface executes at least in part on the further digital data processor. 11. A system according to claim 10, wherein the client digital data processor is coupled to the further digital data processor by a network. 12. A system according to claim 9, wherein the client digital data processor transmits to the further digital data processor a request for the data value. 13. A control system of claim 8, wherein at least one of the server digital data processor and the interface associated with the one or more control/sensing devices provides services for any of (i) creating a named such object, (ii) destroying such an object, (iii) accessing information in such an object, (iv) updating information in such an object, (v) determining, from an object name, a physical address associated with such an object, and (vi) providing notification of changes in at least selected information stored in such an object. 14. A system according to claim 13, wherein the program configures the client digital data processor to request such services. 15. A system according to claim 8, wherein at least one of the server digital data processor and the interface associated with one or more control/sensing devices provides services for any of getting and setting a value of such object. 16. A system according to claim 8, wherein the client digital data processor is coupled to the server digital data processor by a network. 17. A system according to claim 8, wherein the server digital data processor is coupled to the one or more control/sensing devices by any of a bus and a network. 