In a first exemplary embodiment of the present invention, an automated, computerized method for learning object recognition in an image is provided. According to a feature of the present invention, the method comprises the steps of providing a training set of standard images, calculating intrinsic images corresponding to the standard images and building a classifier as a function of the intrinsic images.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated, computerized method for learning object recognition in an image, comprising the steps of: providing a training set of standard images; calculating intrinsic images corresponding to the standard images, the intrinsic images comprise material images and illumination images; and building a classifier as a function of the intrinsic images by selecting image features from each of the material images and illumination images as a function of relationships between features from each of the material images and illumination images, the relationships between features from each of the material images and illumination images comprise features selected from the group consisting of differences and sums of features, products and ratios of features, sums of products, and products of sums. 2. The method of claim 1 comprising the further step of utilizing the classifier to identify objects of interest in the image. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the image comprises a standard image and a corresponding intrinsic image. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of building a classifier as a function of the intrinsic images is carried out to build a classifier utilizing a computer learning technique selected from the group consisting of a feature-based learning framework, an appearance-based learning framework, shape-based analysis and classification, and model-based object recognition. 5. An automated, computerized method for learning object recognition in an image, comprising the steps of: providing a training set of standard images; calculating intrinsic images corresponding to the standard images by providing, for each of the standard images of the training set, a standard image comprising an array of pixels, each pixel having N band color values; generating a histogram on a bi-illuminant chromaticity plane, the histogram being divided into bins; calculating an envelope value for each bin of the histogram; co-relating each of the pixels of the standard image to a corresponding bin of the histogram; and mapping the N band color values of each pixel to the envelope value of the co-related bin to provide a material image as an intrinsic image; and building a classifier as a function of the intrinsic images. 6. The method of claim 5 comprising the further step of utilizing the material image to generate an illumination image. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the classifier comprises an Adaboost classifier. 8. An automated, computerized method for learning object recognition in an image, comprising the steps of: providing a training set of standard images; calculating intrinsic images corresponding to the standard images by providing a BIDR model representation of the standard images, and generating the corresponding intrinsic images as a function of the BIDR model representation; and building a classifier as a function of the intrinsic images. 9. A computer system which comprises: a CPU; and a memory storing image files, each defining an image comprising an array of pixels; the CPU being arranged and configured to execute a routine: to provide a training set of standard images; to calculate intrinsic images corresponding to the standard images, the intrinsic images comprise material images and illumination images; and to build a classifier as a function of the intrinsic images by selecting image features from each of the material images and illumination images as a function of relationships between features from each of the material images and illumination images, the relationships between features from each of the material images and illumination images comprise features selected from the group consisting of differences and sums of features, products and ratios of features, sums of products, and products of sums. 10. A computer program product, disposed on a non-transitory computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: provide a training set of standard images, calculate intrinsic images corresponding to the standard images, the intrinsic images comprise material images and illumination images and build a classifier as a function of the intrinsic images by selecting image features from each of the material images and illumination images as a function of relationships between features from each of the material images and illumination images, the relationships between features from each of the material images and illumination images comprise features selected from the group consisting of differences and sums of features, products and ratios of features, sums of products, and products of sums. 11. A computer program product, disposed on a non-transitory computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: provide a training set of standard images, calculate intrinsic images corresponding to the standard images by providing, for each of the standard images of the training set, a standard image comprising an array of pixels, each pixel having N band color values, generating a histogram on a bi-illuminant chromaticity plane, the histogram being divided into bins, calculating an envelope value for each bin of the histogram, co-relating each of the pixels of the standard image to a corresponding bin of the histogram and mapping the N band color values of each pixel to the envelope value of the co-related bin to provide a material image as an intrinsic image and build a classifier as a function of the intrinsic images. 12. A computer program product, disposed on a non-transitory computer readable media, the product including computer executable process steps operable to control a computer to: provide a training set of standard images, calculate intrinsic images corresponding to the standard images by providing a BIDR model representation of the standard images, and generating the corresponding intrinsic images as a function of the BIDR model representation and build a classifier as a function of the intrinsic images. 