A robotic surgical tool includes an elongate shaft having a working end and a shaft axis, and a pair of linking arms each having a proximal end and a distal end. The proximal end is pivotally mounted on the working end of the shaft to rotate around a first pitch axis to produce rotation in first pitch. A wrist member has a proximal portion pivotally connected to the distal end of the linking arm to rotate around a second pitch axis to produce rotation in second pitch. An end effector is pivotally mounted on a distal portion of the wrist member to rotate around a wrist axis of the wrist member to produce rotation in distal roll. The wrist axis extends between the proximal portion and the distal portion of the wrist member. The elongate shaft is rotatable around the shaft axis to produce rotation in proximal roll. At about 90.degree. pitch, the wrist axis is generally perpendicular to the shaft axis. The proximal roll around the shaft axis and the distal roll around the wrist axis do not overlap. The use of the linking arms allows the end effector to be bent back beyond 90.degree. pitch. The ability to operate the end effector at about 90.degree. pitch and to bend back the end effector renders the wrist mechanism more versatile and adaptable to accessing hard to reach locations, particularly with small entry points such as those involving spinal, neural, or rectal surgical sites.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated surgical instrument for minimally invasive surgery comprising: a tool shaft having a proximal end and a working end; a wrist member having a proximal end and a distal end, the proximal end of the wrist member coupled to the working end of the tool shaft by a pivotal connection defining a pitch axis; a base coupled to the distal end of the wrist member, the base supporting an end effector; first and second pulleys coaxially positioned on the pitch axis; first and second tangent surfaces attached to the bottom of the base, the first and second tangent surfaces each rotatable about a distal roll axis perpendicular to and intersecting the pitch axis; a first elongate element engaging the first tangent surface and the first pulley, the first elongate element running through the tool shaft; and a second elongate element engaging the second tangent surface and the second pulley, the second elongate element running through the tool shaft; the instrument further comprising a pitch pulley coaxially positioned on the pitch axis, and a pitch elongate element engaging the pitch pulley, the pitch elongate element running through the wrist member through the tool shaft. 2. The instrument of claim 1, the end effector further comprising first and second parts pivotally mounted on the base by a pivotal connection defining a yaw axis. 3. The instrument of claim 2, the first and second parts each comprising a pulley portion mounted coaxially on the pivotal connection defining the yaw axis, the instrument further comprising a third and fourth elongate element coupled with the pulley portions of the first and second parts, respectively, the third and fourth elongate elements running through the wrist member through the tool shaft. 4. The instrument of claim 3, the first, second, third, fourth, and pitch elongate elements running through the tool shaft and coupled to first, second, third, fourth, and pitch actuators, respectively, the actuators disposed adjacent the proximal end of the tool shaft. 5. The instrument of claim 1, the first and second elongate elements running through the tool shaft and coupled to first and second actuators, respectively, the actuators disposed adjacent the proximal end of the tool shaft. 6. The instrument of claim 1, the first, second, and pitch elongate elements running through the tool shaft and coupled to first, second, and pitch actuators, respectively, the actuators disposed adjacent the proximal end of the tool shaft. 7. The instrument of claim 1, the first and second tangent surfaces being portions of a single tangent pulley. 8. The instrument of claim 1, the first tangent surface being a first tangent pulley, and the second tangent surface being a second tangent pulley. 9. The instrument of claim 1, the proximal portion of the wrist member comprising a clevis, the working end of the tool shaft comprising an extension, the pivotal connection contacting the clevis and the extension. 