A vehicle, configured to transport an object, said vehicle among other components, comprising: a load bearing member; a line; an actuator coupled to said vehicle and adapted for applying a tensile force to said line in response to an actuator command, and disposed and adapted for transmitting at least a portion of said tensile force to said load bearing member; an end-effector mechanically coupled to said line and adapted for transmitting said tensile force and an operator force to said object and for generating an operator input signal; and a controller adapted for generating said actuator command from said operator input signal.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A vehicle, configured to transport an object, said vehicle among other components, comprising: a load bearing member; a line; an actuator coupled to said vehicle and adapted for applying a tensile force to said line in response to an actuator command, and disposed and adapted for transmitting at least a portion of said tensile force to said load bearing member; an end-effector mechanically coupled to said line and adapted for transmitting said tensile force to said object and for generating an operator input signal; and a controller adapted for generating said actuator command from said operator input signal such that: a) said end-effector moves as a function of said operator input signal when an operator input signal is generated, and b) said end-effector automatically moves upwardly when said operator releases said end-effector. 2. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said vehicle is a sport utility vehicle. 3. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said vehicle is a minivan. 4. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said vehicle is a truck. 5. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said vehicle is a bus. 6. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said load bearing member is the vehicle rear door. 7. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said load bearing member is the vehicle ceiling. 8. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said load bearing member is the vehicle roof. 9. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said line comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of rope, wire, cable, belts, synthetic rope, fabric rope, plastic rope, wire rope, cord, twine, chain, bicycle-type chain, and string. 10. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said end-effector is adapted for wirelessly transmitting said operator input signal to controller. 11. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said actuator comprises: a motor adapted for generating a motor torque in response to said actuator command; and a take-up pulley adapted for receiving said motor torque and applying a tensile force to said line. 12. The vehicle of claim 11 wherein said motor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of electric motors, hydraulic motors, and pneumatic motors. 13. The vehicle of claim 11 wherein said take-up pulley comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of drums, winches, single- groove pulleys, and multi-groove pulleys. 14. The vehicle of claim 11 further comprising a transmission mechanically coupled between said motor and said take-up pulley. 15. The vehicle of claim 14 wherein said transmission comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of gear trains, worm gears, bevel gears, planetary gears, pulleys, lines, belts, toothed belts, toothed pulleys, and harmonic drives. 16. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said actuator further comprises a lower limit sensor adapted for generating a lower limit signal when said end-effector reaches a prescribed lower limit position, said controller being further adapted for generating said actuator command from said lower limit signal. 17. The vehicle of claim 16 wherein said lower limit sensor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of switches and sensors or pick-ups capable of sensing the proximity of said line by magnetic, electrical, or optical means or combinations thereof. 18. The vehicle of claim 16 wherein said lower limit sensor comprises a limit switch. 19. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said actuator further comprises a slack sensor adapted for generating a slack signal when said line becomes slack and, optionally, for redirecting line, said controller being further adapted for generating said actuator command from said slack signal. 20. The vehicle of claim 19 wherein said slack sensor further comprises: a base block; an upper assembly rotatably coupled to said base block and adapted for rotating with respect to said base block as a function of line tension in said line; a line guide rotatably coupled to said upper assembly and adapted for redirecting line; a bias spring mechanically coupled between said upper assembly and said base block and adapted for exerting a bias force on said upper assembly; and a load sensor adapted for generating said slack signal when said line tension is insufficient to overcome said bias force. 21. The vehicle of claim 20 wherein said load sensor is mechanically coupled to said upper assembly. 22. The vehicle of claim 20 wherein said load sensor is mechanically coupled to said base block. 23. The vehicle of claim 20 wherein said load sensor comprises a limit switch. 24. The vehicle of claim 20 wherein said load sensor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of switches and sensors or pick-ups capable of sensing the proximity of upper assembly to base block by magnetic, electrical, or optical means or combinations thereof. 25. The vehicle of claim 20 wherein said line guide comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of pulleys, sprockets, dowels, sleeves, and channels. 26. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said actuator further comprises an upper limit sensor adapted for generating an upper limit signal when said end-effector reaches a prescribed upper limit position, said controller being further adapted for generating said actuator command from said upper limit signal. 27. The vehicle of claim 26 wherein said upper limit sensor further comprises: an upper limit marker mechanically coupled to said line; and a marker detector adapted for generating said upper limit signal when said upper limit marker reaches said prescribed upper limit position. 28. The vehicle of claim 27 wherein said upper limit marker comprises a rubber object. 29. The vehicle of claim 27 wherein said marker detector comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of switches and sensors or pick-ups capable of sensing the proximity of said upper limit marker by magnetic, electrical, or optical means or combinations thereof. 30. The vehicle of claim 27 wherein said marker detector comprises: an upper limit bracket, said line passing through an opening in said upper limit bracket, said opening being shaped to prevent passage therethrough of said upper limit marker; and a contact sensor adapted for generating said upper limit signal as a function of a contact force between said upper limit marker and said upper limit bracket. 31. The vehicle of claim 30 wherein: said marker detector further comprises a base block, said upper limit bracket being rotatably coupled to said base block; and said contact sensor comprises a limit switch adapted for generating said upper limit signal when said contact force causes sufficient rotation of said upper limit bracket with respect to said base block. 32. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said end-effector comprises: an end-effector frame mechanically coupled to said line; a cargo interface mechanically coupled to said end-effector frame and adapted for transmitting said tensile force to said object; and an operator input sensor mechanically coupled to said end-effector frame and adapted for generating said operator input signal. 33. The vehicle of claim 32 wherein said operator input sensor is an electrical switch. 34. The vehicle of claim 32 wherein a handle mechanically coupled to said operator input sensor and adapted to be grasped by said operator hand. 35. The vehicle of claim 32 wherein said operator input sensor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of piezoelectric force sensors, metallic strain gage force sensors, semiconductor strain gage force sensors, Wheatstone bridge-deposited strain gage force sensors, and force sensing resistors. 36. The vehicle of claim 32 wherein said cargo interface comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of hooks, suction cups, magnets, and grippers. 37. The vehicle of claim 32 wherein said operator input sensor comprises: a handle; a compliant element disposed between said handle and said end-effector frame; and a handle displacement sensor adapted for sensing a deformation of said compliant element, said operator input signal being a function of said deformation. 38. The vehicle of claim 37 wherein said compliant element comprises at least one compression spring. 39. The vehicle of claim 37 wherein said handle displacement sensor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of linear potentiometers, magnetic linear encoders, optical linear encoders, linear variable differential transformers, capacitive displacement sensors, eddy current proximity sensors, variable-inductance proximity sensor, and rocker switches. 40. The vehicle of claim 37 wherein: said end-effector frame comprises a spline shaft; and said handle comprises a ball nut adapted for coupling said spline shaft. 41. The vehicle of claim 37 wherein said handle further comprises a handle switch adapted for generating a handle switch signal when said handle is grasped, said controller being further adapted for holding said actuator stationary when said handle switch is not grasped. 42. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said controller comprises: a signal processor adapted for generating an amplifier command signal from said operator input signal; and a power system adapted for generating said actuator command from said amplifier command signal. 43. The vehicle of claim 42 wherein signal processor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of analog devices; analog computation modules; digital devices including, without limitation, small-, medium-, and large-scale integrated circuits, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), programmable gate arrays (PGAs), and programmable logic arrays (PLAs); and digital computation modules including, without limitation, microcomputers, microprocessors, microcontrollers, and programmable logic controllers (PLCs). 44. The vehicle of claim 42 wherein signal processor comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of electromechanical relays or MOSFET switches. 45. The vehicle of claim 42 wherein signal processor generates amplifier command signal from any signal or combination of signals generated by upper limit sensor, lower limit sensor, slack sensor and operator input sensor. 46. The vehicle of claim 42 wherein said power system comprises a power amplifier to generate said actuator command from said amplifier command signal. 47. The vehicle of claim 16 where said controller implements a method wherein said end-effector is stopped when said lower limit sensor is activated and said operator input signal does not indicate an operator intention for raising said end-effector. 48. The vehicle of claim 26 where said controller implements a method wherein said end-effector is stopped when upper limit sensor is activated and the operator input signal does not indicate an operator intention for lowering end-effector. 49. The vehicle of claim 19 where controller implements a method wherein said end-effector is stopped when slack sensor is activated and the operator input signal does not indicate an operator intention for raising end-effector. 50. The vehicle of claim 6 further comprising a holding system wherein said holding system, when said vehicle rear door moves to said open position, securely holds said vehicle rear door in said open position against at least a portion of said tensile force. 51. The vehicle of claim 50 further comprising a release actuator wherein said release actuator, when activated, enables said holding system to let said vehicle rear door move out of said open position. 52. The vehicle of claim 51 wherein said release actuator comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of solenoids, linear motors, rotary motors, and combinations thereof. 53. The vehicle of claim 51 further comprising an operator release device which issues an operator release signal when activated by the operator. 54. The vehicle of claim 53 wherein said operator release device comprises an element or combination of elements selected from a group consisting of push buttons, pull buttons, switches, levers, pull handles, buttons, keys, knobs and switches. 55. The vehicle of claim 53 wherein said release actuator is activated and enables said holding system to let said vehicle rear door move out of said open position when said operator release device is activated. 56. The vehicle of claim 53 wherein said release actuator is activated and enables said holding system to let said vehicle rear door move out of said open position when said operator release device is activated and no object is coupled to said line. 57. The vehicle of claim 53 wherein said release actuator is activated and enables said holding system to let said vehicle rear door move out of said open position when said operator release device is activated, no object is coupled to said line and said line has reached its said upper limit position. 58. The vehicle of claim 1 wherein said vehicle comprises at least one motion guide adapted for guiding the motion of said line with respect to said load bearing member. 59. The vehicle of claim 58 wherein said motion guide comprises a rod bearing. 60. A vehicle, among other components, comprising: a rear door rotatably coupled to said vehicle and having an open position where inside said vehicle can be accessed; a line movably coupled to said rear door; an actuator coupled to said vehicle and adapted for applying a tensile force to said line in response to an actuator command; a holding system wherein said holding system securely holds said rear door in an open position against at least a portion of said tensile force when said rear door is in said open position; an end-effector coupled to said line and adapted for transmitting said tensile force to an object and for generating an operator input signal; and a controller adapted for generating said actuator command from said operator input signal wherein said end-effector moves as a function of said operator input signal when said operator is causing said end-effector to generate said input signal and automatically moves upwardly when said operator releases said end-effector. 61. The vehicle of claim 60 wherein said vehicle further comprises a lower limit sensor adapted for generating a lower limit signal when said end-effector reaches a prescribed lower limit position, said controller being further adapted for generating said actuator command from said lower limit signal. 62. The vehicle of claim 60 wherein said vehicle further comprises a slack sensor adapted for generating a slack signal when said line becomes slack and, optionally, for redirecting line, said controller being further adapted for generating said actuator command from said slack signal. 63. The vehicle of claim 60 wherein said vehicle further comprises an upper limit sensor adapted for generating an upper limit signal when said end-effector reaches a prescribed upper limit position, said controller being further adapted for generating said actuator command from said upper limit signal. 64. An apparatus for loading an object into a vehicle, said apparatus comprising: a line; an actuator coupled to said vehicle and adapted for applying a tensile force to said line in response to an actuator command, and disposed and adapted for transmitting at least a portion of said tensile force to said vehicle; an end-effector mechanically coupled to said line and adapted for transmitting said tensile force to said object and for generating an operator input signal; and a controller adapted for generating said actuator command from said operator input signal such that: a) said end-effector moves as a function of said operator input signal when said operator is causing said end-effector to generate input signal and b) said end-effector automatically moves upwardly when said operator is not grasping said end- effector and there is no object on said end-effector. 65. An object handling device for loading an object into a vehicle, comprising: an end-effector movably coupled to said vehicle and connectable to an object wherein said end-effector includes a handle to be held by an operator and generates an operator input signal; an actuator configurable to be coupled to said vehicle and adapted to move said end-effector; and a controller controlling the operation of said actuator; wherein said controller controls said actuator to lift and lower said object as a function of said operator input signal, and to automatically move said end-effector upwardly when said operator is releasing said end-effector and no object is connoted to said end-effector. 