A multifunctional tool which enables a single robot or other manipulator to perform each of the operations to depalletize a palletized load is disclosed. The depalletization can proceed without the need to move the palletized load from one station to another. The multifunctional tool includes a strap cutting mechanism, extendable vacuum arms, and a fork lift mechanism.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A multifunction tool for attachment to a robotic arm, the multifunction tool being for use with a palletized load, the palletized load including a pallet on which a load is stacked, a top plate positioned on top of the stacked load, and straps engaged around the top plate and pallet to hold the stacked load in place, the multifunction tool comprising: a supporting means carrying a strap cutting mechanism configured for cutting the straps; a fork lifting mechanism carried by the supporting means and having tines configured for lifting the stacked load from the pallet, the tines configured to be advanced and retracted relative to the supporting means in a longitudinal direction of the tines; and pivoting vacuum arms carried by the supporting means and configured to be pivoted with respect to the supporting means between an orientation wherein the arms are configured to remove the top plate from the stacked load, and an orientation wherein the arms are not configured to remove the top plate from the stacked load; the strap-cutting mechanism, the fork lifting mechanism, and the vacuum arms being arranged such that the strap cutting of the straps around the palletized load and a depalletizing of the stacked load from the pallet are carried out using the multifunction tool without the palletized load having to be moved from one position to another. 2. The multifunction tool of claim 1, wherein the removal of the top plate from the stacked load occurs via using the vacuum arms to lift the top plate from the stacked load after the strap cutting for transfer of the top plate to a top plate collection position. 3. The tool of claim 1, wherein the pivoting of the vacuum arms is caused by pneumatic cylinders. 4. The tool of claim 1, wherein, the strap cutting mechanism includes means for locating one of the straps of the palletized load, means for engaging said one strap, , and means for cutting the strap while the strap is engaged by the means for engaging. 5. The tool of claim 4, wherein the means for engaging said one strap is such that tension is applied to the one strap by the robotic arm so that the one strap is cut while under tension. 6. The tool of claim 1, wherein the strap cutting mechanism includes means for holding one of said straps after the one strap has been cut to enable the cut strap to be removed from the stacked load for disposal of the cut strap. 7. The tool of claim 6, wherein the means for holding said one of said straps after cutting comprises one of a pair of clamps for clamping the one strap for cutting. 8. The tool of claim 1, wherein the pivoting vacuum arms comprise vacuum conveying legs having vacuum seal means at free ends thereof, and when the pivoting vacuum arms are pivoted to the orientation wherein the arms are configured to remove the top plate from the stacked load, the vacuum seal means are positioned so as to be brought into engagement with the top plate for removal of the top plate from a the stacked load. 9. The tool of claim 1, wherein the tool includes a pusher means carried by the supporting means proximal to the fork lifting mechanism and having a face positioned for engagement with the stacked load, means for detecting engagement of the stacked load by the pusher means and for causing the robotic arm to move the supporting means to lift the stacked load to create a space for receiving the tines of the fork lifting mechanism to engage the stacked load at a location underneath the stacked load to allow removal of stacked load from the pallet. 10. The tool of claim 9, wherein the pusher means is carried by a pneumatic cylinder to which a predetermined pressure is applied, and including switch means actuatable by retraction of a piston of the pneumatic cylinder upon the pressure generated by the pusher means engaging the stacked load exceeding the predetermined pressure in the cylinder. 11. The tool of claim 1, wherein the tool also carries one or more means for engaging the top of the portion of the stacked load after engagement of the stacked load by the fork lifting mechanism to secure the stacked load for removal of the stacked load from the pallet. 12. A destrapping and depalletizing tool for attachment to a robotic am, the destrapping and depalletizing tool being for use with a palletized load, the palletized load including a pallet on which a load is stacked, a top frame positioned on top of the stacked load, and straps engaged around the top frame and pallet to hold the stacked load in place, the destrapping and depalletizing tool comprising: a supporting means carrying a strap cutting mechanism configured for cutting the straps; a top frame removing mechanism comprising pivoting vacuum arms carried by the supporting means and configured to be pivoted with respect to the supporting means between an orientation wherein the arms are configured to remove the top frame from the stacked load, and an orientation wherein the arms are not configured to remove the top frame from the stacked load; and a fork lifting mechanism carried by the supporting means and having tines configured for lifting the stacked load from the pallet, the tines configured to be advanced and retracted relative to the supporting means in a longitudinal direction of the tines; and the strap cutting mechanism, the top frame removing mechanism, and the fork lifting mechanism being arranged such that the strap cutting, the top frame removal and, the lifting of the stacked load from the pallet are able to be carried out by said tool without moving the palletized a load from one position to another. 