Compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of RANKL. The compositions comprise oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acid encoding RANKL. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of RANKL expression and for diagnosis and treatment of disease associated with expression of RANKL are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of inhibiting expression of RANKL in bone tissue in an animal, comprising subcutaneously or intraperitonealy administering an effective amount of a compound comprising a modified oligonucleotide consisting of 12 to 50 linked nucleosides targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding human RANKL, wherein said modified oligonucleotide is targeted to nucleotides 285-400 of SEQ ID NO: 4, wherein said modified oligonucleotide is at least 90% complementary to SEQ ID NO:4, and wherein said expression of RANKL in said bone tissue is inhibited by at least 35%. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said compound consists of a single-stranded modified oligonucleotide. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one internucleoside linkage of said modified oligonucleotide is a modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein each internucleoside linkage of said modified oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one nucleoside of said modified oligonucleotide comprises a modified sugar. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein at least one modified sugar is a bicyclic sugar. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein at least one modified sugar is selected from the group consisting of a 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) and a 4'-(CH.sub.2).sub.n--O-2' bridge, wherein n is 1 or 2. 8. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one nucleoside of said modified oligonucleotide comprises a modified nucleobase. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each nucleo side of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the modified oligonucleotide comprises: a gap segment consisting of ten linked deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleo sides; wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar; wherein each internucleoside linkage of said modified oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate linkage, and wherein each cytosine of said modified oligonucleotide is a 5-methylcytosine. 12. The method of claim 2, wherein the modified oligonucleotide consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said modified oligonucleotide consists of 15 to 30 linked nucleosides. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said modified oligonucleotide is at least 95% complementary to SEQ ID NO:4. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said modified oligonucleotide is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO:4. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the modified oligonucleotide consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 