Methods for steering mobile medical equipment are disclosed. In one embodiment, the method includes supporting medical equipment with a base above a floor over which a left steerable wheel, a right steerable wheel, and a pair of front wheels roll; receiving an input steering angle other than zero; linearly sweeping a long link in response to the input steering angle, pivoting a pair of short links in response to the linearly sweeping of the long link; pivoting a pair of cam plates in response to the pivoting of the pair of short links; transferring the pivoting of one of the pair of cam plates to a left wheel assembly to position the left steerable wheel at a left wheel angle; and transferring the pivoting of another one of the pair of cam plates to a right wheel assembly to position the right steerable wheel at a right wheel angle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for steering mobile medical equipment having four wheels, the method comprising: supporting medical equipment with a base above a floor over which a left steerable wheel, a right steerable wheel, and a pair of front wheels roll; receiving an input steering angle other than zero; linearly sweeping a long link in response to the input steering angle, pivoting a pair of short links in response to the linearly sweeping of the long link; pivoting a pair of cam plates in response to the pivoting of the pair of short links; transferring the pivoting of one of the pair of cam plates to a left wheel assembly to position the left steerable wheel at a left wheel angle; and transferring the pivoting of another one of the pair of cam plates to a right wheel assembly to position the right steerable wheel at a right wheel angle. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising pivoting a tiller link to receive the input steering angle. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the pair of front wheels are motorized wheels and the method further comprises: driving the pair of motorized wheels to move the mobile medical equipment over the floor. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the position of the right steerable wheel differs from the position of the left steerable wheel such that an axis of rotation of the pair of front wheels substantially intersects different axes of rotation of the right steerable wheel and the left steerable wheel at a center of turn to turn the mobile medical equipment over the floor substantially around the center of turn. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the medical equipment is a patient side cart of a robotic surgical system including one or more robotic surgical arms. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first wheel angle of the first steerable wheel and the second wheel angle of the second steerable wheel are limited to provide a radius turn with a radius of not less than half a width of the base. 7. A method for steering mobile medical equipment having four wheels, the method comprising supporting medical equipment with a base above a floor over which a left steerable wheel, a right steerable wheel, and a pair of front motorized wheels roll; receiving an input steering angle other than zero; linearly sweeping a long link in response to the input steering angle, pivoting a pair of short links in response to the linearly sweeping of the long link; pivoting a pair of cam plates in response to the pivoting of the pair of short links; positioning the left steerable wheel with a left wheel assembly at a left wheel angle in response to the pivoting of one of the pair of cam plates; positioning the right steerable wheel with a right wheel assembly at a right wheel angle in response to the pivoting of another one of the pair of cam plates; and limiting the generating of the left wheel angle and the right wheel angle to avoid radius turns of substantially zero and avoid driving a first motorized wheel of the pair of front motorized wheels in one direction of rotation while concurrently driving a second motorized wheel of the pair of front motorized wheels in an opposite direction of rotation. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the limiting of the generating of the left wheel angle and the right wheel angle includes keeping the right steerable wheel and the left steerable wheel from pointing in opposite directions, wherein left and right are opposite directions. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the limiting of the generating of the left wheel angle and the right wheel angle includes keeping the right steerable wheel and the left steerable wheel pointing towards a similar direction. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the similar direction is left and the right steerable wheel and the left steerable wheel are kept pointing towards the left to avoid radius turns of substantially zero degrees. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the similar direction is right and the right steerable wheel and the left steerable wheel are kept pointing towards the right to avoid radius turns of substantially zero degrees. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the position of the right steerable wheel differs from the position of the left steerable wheel such that an axis of rotation of the pair of front wheels substantially intersects different axes of rotation of the right steerable wheel and the left steerable wheel at a center of turn to turn the mobile medical equipment over the floor substantially around the center of turn. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein the medical equipment is a patient side cart of a robotic surgical system including one or more robotic surgical arms. 14. The method of claim 7, further comprising: the pair of motorized wheels are spaced apart from each other. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: driving a first motorized wheel of the pair of motorized wheels in a first direction of rotation with a first motor. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: driving a second motorized wheel of the pair of motorized wheels in the first direction of rotation with a second motor; and wherein the first and second motors are spaced apart from each other. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the first and second motors are spaced apart from each other and the method further comprises: after driving the first motorized wheel, driving a second motorized wheel of the pair of motorized wheels in a second direction of rotation with a second motor opposite the first direction. 