An apparatus which measures a size and a shape of a transparent sheet includes a conveyor, a lighting apparatus, an imaging device and a process controller. The conveyor moves the transparent sheet. The lighting apparatus projects light onto the transparent sheet. The imaging device receives reflected light reflected from the transparent sheet. A thickness is input into the process controller. A sheet temperature from a sheet temperature sensor and/or a structure temperature from a structure temperature sensor are output to the process controller. An image is output from the imaging device to the process controller. The process controller outputs the size and the shape of the transparent sheet. The outputs from the process controller are used to adjust machine tools used to fabricate the transparent sheet.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus which measures a size, a marginal edge and a two-dimensional shape of a transparent sheet comprising: a lighting apparatus projecting light at the transparent sheet; an imaging device receiving the light from the transparent sheet, and; a process controller, with the imaging device outputting an image of said transparent sheet to the process controller and with the process controller outputting the size, the marginal edge and the two-dimensional shape of the transparent sheet from said image. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the size and shape output from the process controller is a pass/fail signal. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a sheet temperature sensor and/or a structure temperature sensor, with the sheet temperature sensor outputting a sheet temperature to the process controller and/or with the structure temperature sensor outputting a structure temperature to the process controller, and with the process controller using the sheet temperature and/or the structure temperature to correct the size and the shape of the transparent sheet due to thermal expansion or contraction. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein a calibration target is used to calibrate the apparatus, with the calibration target having a two-dimensional pattern. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a thickness sensor measures a thickness of the transparent sheet, with the thickness sensor outputting a thickness of the transparent sheet to the process controller. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a conveyor moving the transparent sheet. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the conveyor moves the transparent sheet at a velocity and the process controller corrects the size and the shape of the transparent sheet for the velocity. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the lighting apparatus is directed at a high angle of incidence to the transparent sheet. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the output from the process controller of the shape of the transparent sheet is quadrilateral, elliptical, irregular, curved, quadrilateral with a quadrilateral removed, quadrilateral with an ellipse removed, elliptical with a quadrilateral removed, elliptical with an ellipse removed, irregular with a quadrilateral removed, irregular with an ellipse removed, curved with a quadrilateral removed, or curved with a quadrilateral removed. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the size and the shape of the transparent sheet is used to adjust glass machine tools. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the transparent sheet has an inside diameter up to a beveled edge and an outside diameter up to an edge of the transparent sheet, with the inside diameter smaller than the outside diameter, and with the inside diameter and the outside diameter determined from the size and shape of the transparent sheet output from the process controller. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein a fixed pattern is projected onto the transparent sheet, with a reflected image of the fixed pattern measured for changes in the size and the shape of the transparent sheet, with the changes used to compute bow intensity. 13. A method of measuring a size, a marginal edge and a two-dimensional shape of a transparent sheet comprising: projecting light at the transparent sheet from a lighting apparatus; receiving the light from the transparent sheet with an imaging device; outputting an image of said transparent sheet from the imaging device to a process controller, and; outputting from said process controller the size, the marginal edge and the two-dimensional shape of the transparent sheet from said image. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein outputting the size and shape of the transparent sheet is a pass/fail signal. 15. The method of claim 13 further comprising measuring a sheet temperature of the transparent sheet with a sheet temperature sensor and/or measuring a structure temperature with a structure temperature sensor, outputting the glass sheet temperature from the sheet temperature sensor to the process controller and/or outputting the structure temperature from the structure temperature sensor to the process controller, using the sheet temperature and/or the structure temperature in the process controller to adjust the size and the shape of the transparent sheet. 16. The method of claim 13 further comprising calibrating the apparatus using a calibration target, wherein the calibration target has a two-dimensional pattern. 17. The method of claim 13 further comprising measuring a thickness of the transparent sheet with a thickness sensor and outputting the thickness of the transparent sheet from the thickness sensor to the process controller. 18. The method of claim 13 further comprising moving the transparent sheet with a conveyor. 19. The method of claim 18 further comprising correcting the length of the transparent sheet, with the moving the transparent sheet being at a velocity, and with the process controller correcting the length of the transparent sheet with the velocity. 20. The method of claim 13 wherein projecting light is at a high angle of incidence to the transparent sheet. 21. The method of claim 13 further comprising detecting the shape of the transparent sheet, with the shape of the transparent sheet being quadrilateral, elliptical, irregular, curved, quadrilateral with a quadrilateral removed, quadrilateral with an ellipse removed, elliptical with a quadrilateral removed, elliptical with an ellipse removed, irregular with a quadrilateral removed, irregular with an ellipse removed, curved with a quadrilateral removed, or curved with a quadrilateral removed. 22. The method of claim 13 further comprising adjusting glass machine tools with the size and shape of the transparent sheet. 23. The method of claim 13 further comprising determining an inside diameter and an outside diameter of a transparent sheet from the size and size of the transparent sheet, with inside diameter up to a beveled edge and the outside diameter up to an edge of the transparent sheet with the inside diameter less than the outside diameter. 24. The method of claim 13 further comprising projecting a fixed pattern onto the transparent sheet, measuring a reflected image of the fixed pattern for changes in the size and the shape of the transparent sheet, and computing bow intensity from the changes in the size and the shape. 