A printhead module is provided having an ink delivery member supporting at least one printhead integrated circuit via an ink distribution member. The ink distribution member incorporates a laminated stack of layers for distributing ink from the ink delivery member to inkjet nozzles of the printhead integrated circuit via distribution apertures. The distribution apertures of each successive layer of the stack from the ink delivery member to the inkjet nozzles has a successively smaller diameter.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead module comprising an ink delivery member supporting at least one printhead integrated circuit via an ink distribution member, the ink distribution member incorporating a laminated stack of layers for distributing ink from the ink delivery member to inkjet nozzles of the printhead integrated circuit via distribution apertures, the distribution apertures of each successive layer of the stack from the ink delivery member to the inkjet nozzles having a successively smaller diameter. 2. A printhead module according to claim 1, wherein the at least one printhead integrated circuit, the ink delivery member and the ink distribution member are formed as a unitary arrangement with electrical connectors for connecting electrical signals to the at least one printhead integrated circuit. 3. A printhead module according to claim 2, wherein the laminated stack comprises an upper layer upon which the printhead integrated circuit is mounted, a middle layer, and a lower layer which is attached to the ink delivery member. 4. A printhead module according to claim 3, wherein: the lower layer includes first distribution apertures arranged to align with respective ones of apertures in the ink delivery member and first distribution channels associated with respective ones of the first distribution apertures, the first distribution apertures having substantially the same diameter as the ink delivery apertures; the middle layer includes second distribution apertures arranged to align with the first distribution channels of the lower layer, the second distribution apertures having a smaller diameter than the first distribution apertures; the upper layer includes second distribution channels arranged to communicate with the second distribution apertures of the middle layer and third distribution apertures associated with the second distribution channels, the third distribution apertures having a smaller diameter than the second distribution apertures. 5. A printhead module according to claim 4, wherein the at least one printhead integrated circuit includes nozzle supply apertures arranged to align with the third distribution apertures of the upper layer of the laminated stack and to supply ink to respective ones of the nozzles, the nozzle supply apertures having substantially the same diameter as the third distribution apertures. 6. A printhead module according to claim 5, wherein the ink delivery member apertures have a diameter of the order of millimetres and the nozzle supply apertures have a diameter of the order of micrometres. 