An enhanced data exchange and functionality control system and method are provided. A first executable code having core functionality is provided to a computing device. The message includes partial executable code that merges with the first executable code to extend the core functionality as required for the computing device to execute upon data received via the message, via another message, or via another source.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computing device running an operating system, said computing device comprising: a storage device, said storage device including an application program comprising a first executable code providing core functionality to said computing device, said core functionality providing a framework for the execution of program routines received from a source, said framework comprising core functions and data exchange functions for establishing a communications link with said source and receiving a message from said source; a processor; and an interface to said communications link, said computing device using said data exchange functions to establish said communications link and to receive a message via said communications link, said message including a data and a partial executable code that requires additional executable code comprising said first executable code to enable said computing device to execute on said data, said partial executable code defining a functional environment associated with said message, said functional environment determining how said data is used by said application program regardless of the format of the data, said partial executable code having said program routines that complete said core functions to create said functional environment thereby fully enabling said application program to execute upon said data within said functional environment, said partial executable code being able to execute upon said data independent of any other executable code, said core functionality having no understanding of the format of said data or of said functional environment, said partial executable code requiring said core functionality provided by said first executable code to function. 2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein said data comprises at least one of a graphic, a photograph, an e-mail, a music, a voice message, a video, an interactive program, a media, or sensor information. 3. The computing device of claim 1, wherein said first executable code is provided to a user of said computing device via one of a compact disk, a digital video disk, a floppy disk, an e-mail, or a web site location. 4. The computing device of claim 1, wherein said first executable code is provided to said storage device during at least one of a manufacturing process or a product assembly process. 5. The computing device of claim 1, wherein said computing device comprises at least one of a desktop computer, a personal computer, a laptop computer, a personal digital assistant, a smart phone, a set top box, an authentication control device, or an automation control device. 6. The computing device of claim 1, wherein said partial executable code completes said core functionality as required to execute on said data. 7. The computing device of claim 1, wherein said data source is at least one of said message, a following message, or a sensor. 8. The computing device of claim 1, further comprising: a user interface, wherein said message is provided in response to a user interface associated with the computing device. 9. The computing device of claim 1, wherein said message is provided in response to a control interface associated with a control facility. 10. The computing device of claim 1, wherein said message is provided to said computing device in accordance with at least one of sensor information corresponding to the environment of the computing device, a measured user tendency, a measured parameter, a rule, or an established boundary condition. 11. A method of controlling functionality of a computing device running an operating system, said method comprising the steps of: a. providing said computing device an application program comprising a first executable code having core functionality, said core functionality providing a framework for the execution of program routines received from a source, said framework comprising core functions and data exchange functions for establishing a communications link with said source and receiving a message from said source; and b. providing said computing device a message, said message including a data and a partial executable code that merges with said first executable code to extend said core functionality, said partial executable code defining a functional environment associated with said message, said functional environment determining how said data is used by said application program regardless of the format of the data, said partial executable code having said program routines that complete said core functions to create said functional environment thereby fully enabling said application program to execute upon said data within said functional environment, said partial executable code being able to execute upon said data independent of any other executable code, said core functionality having no understanding of the format of said data or of said functional environment, said partial executable code requiring additional executable code comprising said first executable code to function. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said message is provided via at least one of a communications link, a public network, a wireless network, magnetism, a media, or an active RFID transmission. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: c. authenticating at least one of an identify of a person, ownership of a product, or authorization to perform a function. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein said message includes data and said extending said core functionality enables said computing device to execute upon said data. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein said computing device comprises at least one of a desktop computer, a personal computer, a laptop computer, a personal digital assistant, a smart phone, a set top box, an authentication control device, or an automation control device. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein said message is provided in response to at least one of a request made via a user interface of the computing device, a request from a control facility, or a request by the computing device based upon at least one of sensor information corresponding to the environment of the computing device, a measured user tendency, a measured parameter, a rule, or an established boundary condition. 