A doctor blade assembly for use in combination with apparatus for forming a film on a substrate. The doctor blade assembly includes a doctor blade to be mounted on a programmable robot. The doctor blade has a bottom face and spacers at opposite ends of the body of the doctor blade extending a predetermined distance down below the bottom face of the body for contacting a substrate and spacing the bottom face from the substrate. The spacers are adjustable relative to the doctor blade for adjusting the predetermined distance according to the thickness of film to be formed on the substrate. Other aspects and methods are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for forming films on substrates, comprising a doctor blade assembly; a programmable robot for moving the doctor blade assembly along X, Y and Z-axes, the X and Y-axes being generally horizontal and the Z-axis being generally vertical, said doctor blade assembly comprising a doctor blade adapted to be mounted on the robot, said doctor blade comprising a body having a bottom face and spacers at opposite ends of the body of the doctor blade extending a predetermined distance down below the bottom face of the body for contacting a substrate and spacing the bottom face from the substrate, the spacers being adjustable relative to the body of the doctor blade for adjusting said predetermined distance according to the thickness of film to be formed on the substrate; and an adjustment mechanism associated with each spacer for adjusting said predetermined distance, said adjustment mechanism comprising a slot in the spacer extending generally along said Z-axis and a fastener extending through the at least one slot and into the body of the doctor blade, the fastener being adapted to be loosened to permit adjustment of the spacer and tightened to hold the spacer in adjusted position. 2. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said slot has a width which is greater than the corresponding dimension of the fastener to permit angular adjustment of the spacer relative body of the doctor blade. 3. Apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein said adjustment mechanism further comprises a clamp member for clamping the spacer against the body of the doctor blade when the fastener is tightened. 4. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said spacers are angularly adjustable relative to the body of the doctor blade. 5. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a flexible coupling for coupling the doctor blade to the robot, said flexible coupling being configured for exerting a downward spring force on the doctor blade as it moves along said Y-axis during the formation of a film on the substrate. 6. Apparatus as set forth in claim 5 wherein said downward spring force has a vertical component and a horizontal component. 7. Apparatus as set forth in claim 6 wherein said flexible coupling comprises a spring member having a longitudinal axis extending generally along said Z-axis. 8. Apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein said spring member is adapted to bend along its longitudinal axis as it exerts said downward spring force on the doctor blade. 9. Apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein said spring member has a releasable connection with said doctor blade. 10. Apparatus as set forth in claim 7 wherein said bottom face of the doctor blade body lies in a plane oblique to the longitudinal axis of the spring member when the spring member is in a relaxed condition. 11. Apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein said spacers are angularly adjustable relative to the body of the doctor blade. 12. A doctor blade assembly for use in combination with apparatus for forming a film on a substrate, said doctor blade assembly comprising a doctor blade adapted to be mounted on a programmable robot, said doctor blade comprising a body having a bottom face and spacers at opposite ends of the body of the doctor blade extending a predetermined distance down below the bottom face of the body for contacting a substrate and spacing the bottom face from the substrate, the spacers being adjustable relative to the doctor blade for adjusting said predetermined distance according to the thickness of film to be formed on the substrate; and an adjustment mechanism associated with each spacer for adjusting said predetermined distance, said adjustment mechanism comprising a slot in the spacer and a fastener extending through the slot and into the body of the doctor blade, the fastener being adapted to be loosened to permit adjustment of the spacer and tightened to hold the spacer in adjusted position. 13. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12 wherein said slot has a width which is greater than the corresponding dimension of the fastener to permit angular adjustment of the spacer relative body of the doctor blade. 14. Apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein said adjustment mechanism further comprises a clamp member for clamping the spacer against the body of the doctor blade when the fastener is tightened. 15. Apparatus as set forth in claim 12 further comprising a flexible coupling for coupling the doctor blade to a programmable robot, said flexible coupling being configured for exerting a downward spring force on the doctor blade as it moves to form a film on the substrate. 