A method is described for mapping dense sensory data to a Sensory Ego Sphere (SES). Methods are also described for finding and ranking areas of interest in the images that form a complete visual scene on an SES. Further, attentional processing of image data is best done by performing attentional processing on individual full-size images from the image sequence, mapping each attentional location to the nearest node, and then summing attentional locations at each node.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An adaptive autonomous robot comprising: sensors to generate signals that can be mapped to a characteristic of an environment surrounding the robot; actuators to enable the robot to perform an action; a camera for receiving image data from an external source; a database for associating received image data with points on a portion of a spherical region centered on the robot; means for performing attentional processing on individual images to identify attentional locations; means for mapping each attentional location to a nearest point on the portion of the spherical region; and a summer for summing activation values of the attentional locations mapped to a point. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein the sensors comprise: means for sensing an internal state of the robot; and means for sensing one or more characteristics of the robot's environment. 3. The robot of claim 2 wherein the database comprises a sensory ego sphere for representing an object based on the sensed internal state and the sensed environment. 4. In an adaptive autonomous robot comprising: sensors to generate signals that can be mapped to a characteristic of an environment surrounding the robot; actuators to enable the robot to perform an action; a camera for receiving image data from an external source; and a database for associating received image data with points on a portion of a spherical region centered on the robot; a method of finding and ranking areas of interest in images from the external source comprising: performing attentional processing on individual images to identify attentional locations; mapping each attentional location to a nearest point on the portion of the spherical region; and summing activation values of the attentional locations mapped to a point. 5. An adaptive autonomous robot, comprising: sensors to generate signals that can be mapped to a characteristic of an environment surrounding the robot; actuators to enable the robot to perform an action; a camera to receive image data from an external source; a database to associate received image data with points on a portion of a spherical region centered on the robot; an attention agent to perform attentional processing on individual images to identify attentional locations; and a summer to sum activation values of the attentional locations mapped to a point wherein each attentional location is mapped to a nearest point on the portion of the spherical region. 