A robotic system is provided that enables easy manipulation and various operations. A walking operation allocated to a manipulated switch operation section is performed. Meanwhile, the right ankle roll axis control motor, the left ankle roll axis control motor, right hip joint roll axis control motor, and the left hip joint roll axis control motor are driven according to the operation amount of a manipulated analog operation section. Thus, the barycentric position of the robot is shifted to change the traveling direction of walking.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system comprising, a transmitter including a switch operation section operated by an operator for instructing an allocated operation, an analog operation section simultaneously operated by the operator for instructing an operation corresponding to an operation amount, control signal output means for outputting a control signal according to operations of said switch operation section and said analog operation section, and transmission means for transmitting said control signal; a robot including plural joints and plural motors that drive said joints, respectively; receiving means for receiving and outputting control signals from said transmitter; and control means for driving in response to control signals from said receiving means and controlling said joints of said robot, wherein said control means drives said motors in response to said control signals in such a way that operations instructed by said switch operation section and said analog operation section are added. 2. The robotic system as defined in claim 1, wherein said operation instructed by said analog operation section corresponds to an attitude control operation of said robot. 3. The robotic system as defined in claim 2, wherein said attitude control operation shifts the barycenter position of said robot. 4. The robotic system as defined in claim 3, wherein said control means drives motors that respectively move at least an ankle joint and a hip joint of said robot, to shift said barycentric position. 5. The robotic system as defined in claim 4, wherein at least a roll axis control motor and a pitch axis control motor are mounted to each joint, as a motor for controlling said ankle joint and said hip joint. 