The invention relates to methods and compositions for identifying soybean plants that are tolerant, have improved tolerance or are susceptible to Fusarium solani infection (the causative agent of sudden death syndrome or SDS). The methods use molecular genetic markers to identify, select and/or construct disease-tolerant plants or identify and counterselect disease-susceptible plants. Soybean plants that display tolerance or improved tolerance to Fusarium solani infection that are generated by the methods of the invention are also a feature of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying a first soybean plant or germplasm that displays tolerance, or improved tolerance to Fusarium solani infection, the method comprising detecting in the first soybean plant or germplasm an allele of a marker locus that is associated with the tolerance or, improved tolerance, wherein the marker locus is located within the chromosomal interval defined by and including the termini SATT166 and SATT513. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the marker locus associated with tolerance, or improved tolerance is SATT513. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the germplasm is a soybean line or soybean variety. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the Fusarium solani is Fusarium solani f. sp. glycines. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the tolerance or improved tolerance is a non-race specific tolerance or a non-race specific improved tolerance. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting comprises detecting at least one allelic form of a polymorphic simple sequence repeat (SSR) or a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting comprises amplifying the marker locus or a portion of the marker locus to produce an amplified marker amplicon, and detecting the resulting amplified marker amplicon. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the amplifying comprises: a) admixing an amplification primer or amplification primer pair with a nucleic acid isolated from the first soybean plant or germplasm, wherein the amplification primer or amplification primer pair is complementary or partially complementary to at least a portion of the marker locus, and is capable of initiating DNA polymerization by a DNA polymerase using the soybean nucleic acid as a template; and, b) extending the amplification primer or amplification primer pair in a DNA polymerization reaction comprising a DNA polymerase and a template nucleic acid to generate at least one amplified marker amplicon. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the nucleic acid is selected from DNA and RNA. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the at least one SNP allele is detected using allele specific hybridization (ASH) analysis. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the amplifying comprises employing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or ligase chain reaction (LCR) using a nucleic acid isolated from the first soybean plant or germplasm as a template in the PCR or LCR. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the allele is a favorable allele that positively correlates with tolerance or improved tolerance. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting the first soybean plant or germplasm, or selecting a progeny of the first soybean plant or germplasm comprising the at least one allele of a marker locus that is associated with the tolerance or improved tolerance to Fusarium solani infection. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising crossing the selected first soybean plant or germplasm with a second soybean plant or germplasm. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the second soybean plant or germplasm comprises an exotic soybean strain or an elite soybean strain. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the marker locus is determined using a mapping population from a cross between soybean lines 93B41 and P9362. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the tolerance or improved tolerance is assayed in a population of soybean that is naturally infected with the Fusarium solani. 