The present invention provides methods and systems for discretized, combinatorial processing of regions of a substrate such as for the discovery, implementation, optimization, and qualification of new materials, processes, and process sequence integration schemes used in integrated circuit fabrication. A substrate having an array of differentially processed regions thereon is processed by delivering materials to or modifying regions of the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of combinatorial processing comprising providing a substrate with a plurality of discrete regions, wherein at least two of the discrete regions include a dielectric portion and an electrically conductive portion; forming a masking layer on the dielectric portion of at least two of the plurality of discrete regions; and forming a capping layer on the electrically conductive portion of at least two of the plurality of regions, wherein a process of forming the capping layer of at least one region is different from a process of forming the capping layer of at least one other region by varying a unit process of delivering a plating chemistry to the substrate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of discrete regions are isolated from nearby regions during processing. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of discrete regions are isolated by at last one of a processing chamber or by providing sufficient space between the plurality of discrete regions to prevent materials from substantially interdiffusing between the plurality of discrete regions. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the masking layer is not formed on the electrically conductive portion of at least one region. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing the masking layer after forming the capping layer of at least one region, wherein the removing enhances selectivity of the capping layer of at least one region. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the capping layer is not formed on the dielectric portion of at least one region. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the masking layer inhibits formation of capping layer material in the dielectric portion of at least one region. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein at least ten regions are processed on the substrate and at least three of the at least ten regions are processed differently from each other. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein at least 25 regions are processed on the substrate and at least six of the at least 25 regions are processed differently from each other. 10. The method of claim 8, further comprising removing the masking layer after forming the capping layer, wherein the removing enhances selectivity of the capping layer. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: contemporaneously forming a barrier layer over the at least one region and the at least one other region. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: isolating the plurality of discrete regions from each other through a barrier that does not contact the substrate. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of discrete regions are defined by one of a die of the substrate, multiple dice of the substrate, test structures or a process chamber. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the process of forming at least one of the capping layer and the masking layer of the at least one region is locally uniform within the at least one region. 15. A method of combinatorial processing, comprising: providing a substrate with a first dielectric region and a second dielectric region separated from each other by an electrically conductive region; and selectively forming a self assembled layer over the first dielectric region and the second dielectric region, wherein a process for forming the self assembled layer over the first dielectric region is different from a process of forming the self assembled layer over the second dielectric region, and wherein the selectively forming the self-assembled layer over the first dielectric region and the second dielectric region occur contemporaneously. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the process of forming the self assembled layer over the first dielectric region includes varying one of materials, unit processes, process sequence order or process conditions as compared to the process of forming the self assembled layer over the second dielectric region. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein each process of forming provides localized uniformity. 18. The method of claim 15, further comprising: forming a barrier layer over the substrate including the plurality of discrete dielectric regions. 