The present invention relates to eukaryotic host cells having modified oligosaccharides which may be modified further by heterologous expression of a set of glycosyltransferases, sugar transporters and mannosidases to become host-strains for the production of mammalian, e.g., human therapeutic glycoproteins. The invention provides nucleic acid molecules and combinatorial libraries which can be used to successfully target and express mammalian enzymatic activities such as those involved in glycosylation to intracellular compartments in a eukaryotic host cell. The process provides an engineered host cell which can be used to express and target any desirable gene(s) involved in glycosylation. Host cells with modified oligosaccharides are created or selected. N-glycans made in the engineered host cells have a Man.sub.5GlcNAc.sub.2 core structure which may then be modified further by heterologous expression of one or more enzymes, e.g., glycosyltransferases, sugar transporters and mannosidases, to yield human-like glycoproteins. For the production of therapeutic proteins, this method may be adapted to engineer cell lines in which any desired glycosylation structure may be obtained.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A yeast or filamentous fungus host cell genetically engineered so that it does not display a 1,6 mannosyltransferase activity and produces a recombinant glycoprotein, comprising a nucleic acid encoding an alpha-1,2 mannosidase enzyme, the enzyme comprising: (i) an alpha-1,2 mannosidase catalytic domain; fused to (ii) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the enzyme to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell where the enzyme functions optimally; wherein the host cell produces the recombinant glycoprotein in which greater than 30 mole percent of the N-glycan structures attached thereto are converted to a MansGlcNAc2 glycoform that can serve as a substrate for additional glycosylation enzymes so that the recombinant glycoprotein produced therein can comprise complex or hybrid N-glycans. 2. The host cell of claim 1, further comprising one or more additional nucleic acids encoding one or more additional enzymes selected from the group consisting of mannosidases, glycosyltransferases and glycosidases. 3. The host cell of claim 1, wherein the host cell further comprises nucleic acids encoding a mannosidase II, a GlcNAc transferase I, a GlcNAc transferase II, a galactose transferase, and a sialic acid transferase and whereby, upon passage of the recombinant glycoprotein through the ER and Golgi apparatus of the host cell, the recombinant glycoprotein comprises at least one oligosaccharide branch comprising the structure NeuNAc-Gal-GlcNAc-Man. 4. The host cell of claim 1, wherein the host cell is selected from the group consisting of Pichia pastoris, Pichia finlandica, Pichia trehalophila, Pichia koclamae, Pichia membranaefaciens, Pichia opuntiae, Pichia thermotolerans, Pichia salictaria, Pichia guercuum, Pichia pijperi, Pichia stiptis, Pichia methanolica, Pichia sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomyces sp., Hansenula polymorphs, Kluyveromyces sp., Kluyveromyces lactis, Candida albicans, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus oryzae, Trichoderma reesei, Chrysosporium lucknowense, Fusarium sp., Fusarium gramineum, Fusarium venenatum and Neurospora crassa. 5. The host cell of claim 1, wherein the host cell further lacks the activity of other mannosyltransferases and phosphomannosyltransferases. 6. The host cell of claim 5, wherein the mannosyltransferase is 1,3 mannosyltransferase or 1,2 mannosyltransferase. 7. The host cell of claim 1, wherein the host cell is an och1 mutant of P. pastoris. 8. The host cell of claim 1, wherein the host cell expresses GnTI and UDP-GlcNAc enzymes. 9. The host cell of claim 1, wherein the host cell expresses a UDP- or GDP-specific diphosphatase. 10. The host cell of claim 2, wherein the glycosyltransferase is selected from the group consisting of mannosidases, GnT I, GnT II, GnT III, GnT IV, GnT V, GnT VI, GalT, Fucosyltransferase, and Sialyltransferase. 11. A yeast or filamentous fungus host cell genetically engineered so that it does not display a 1,6 mannosyltransferase activity comprising: (a) a first nucleic acid encoding an alpha-1,2 mannosidase enzyme, the enzyme comprising: (i) an alpha-1,2 mannosidase catalytic domain; fused to (ii) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the enzyme to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell where the enzyme functions optimally; and (b) a second nucleic acid encoding a GlcNAc transferase I enzyme, the enzyme comprising: (i) a GlcNAc transferase I catalytic domain; fused to (ii) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell. 12. The host cell of claim 11, further comprising a nucleic acid encoding a UDP-GlcNAc transporter. 13. The host cell of claim 11, wherein the host is selected from the group consisting of Pichia pastoris, Pichia finlandica, Pichia trehalophila, Pichia koclamae, Pichia membranaefaciens, Pichia opuntiae, Pichia thermotolerans, Pichia salictaria, Pichia guercuum, Pichia pijperi, Pichia stiptis, Pichia methanolica, Pichia sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomyces sp., Hansenula polymorphs, Kluyveromyces sp., Kluyveromyces lactis, Candida albicans. 14. A yeast or filamentous host cell genetically engineered so that it does not display a 1,6 mannosyltransferase activity comprising: (a) a first nucleic acid encoding an alpha-1,2 mannosidase enzyme, the enzyme comprising: (i) an alpha-1,2 mannosidase catalytic domain; fused to (ii) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the enzyme to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell where the enzyme functions optimally; (b) a second nucleic acid encoding a GlcNAc transferase I enzyme, the enzyme comprising: (i) a GlcNAc transferase I catalytic domain; fused to (ii) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell; and (c) a third nucleic acid encoding a mannosidase II enzyme, the enzyme comprising: (i) a mannosidase II catalytic domain; fused to (ii) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell. 15. The host cell of claim 14, further comprising a nucleic acid encoding a UDP-GlcNAc transporter. 16. The host cell of claim 14, wherein the host is selected from the group consisting of Pichia pastoris, Pichia finlandica, Pichia trehalophila, Pichia koclamae, Pichia membranaefaciens, Pichia opuntiae, Pichia thermotolerans, Pichia salictaria, Pichia guercuum, Pichia pijperi, Pichia stiptis, Pichia methanolica, Pichia sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomyces sp., Hansenula polymorphs, Kluyveromyces sp., Kluyveromyces lactis, Candida albicans. 17. The host cell of claim 14, wherein said host cell further comprises a fourth nucleic acid encoding a GlcNAc transferase II enzyme, the enzyme comprising: (i) a GlcNAc transferase II catalytic domain; fused to (ii) a cellular targeting signal peptide not normally associated with the catalytic domain and selected to target the catalytic domain to the ER or Golgi apparatus of the host cell. 