Systems for managing workflows to perform chemical or biological reactions using microfluidic devices.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated system for processing one or more entities, the system comprising: an automation table; one or more microfluidic devices, the one or more microfluidic devices comprising one or more inlets and a plurality of reaction chambers in fluid communication with the one or more inlets, wherein a number of the plurality of reaction chambers is greater than a number of the one or more inlets; a robot device comprising a robot arm disposed on the automation table, the robot arm being capable of accessing one or more work stations on the automation table, the robot arm being adapted to transfer the one or more microfluidic devices from a first spatial location to a second spatial location; an input device coupled to the one or more work stations, the input device being adapted to receive one or more microfluidic devices from a user; an output device coupled to one or more work stations, the output device being adapted to output the one or more microfluidic devices to a user; an image capturing workstation coupled between the input device and the output device, the image capturing workstation being adapted to capture one or more images of at least a portion of one or more of the plurality of reaction chambers and any contents therein of one of the one or more microfluidic devices; and a fluidic controller unit including a platform having a receiving bay configured to receive the one or more microfluidic devices, wherein the fluidic controller unit is in communication with the one or more inlets of the one or more microfluidic devices, wherein the fluidic controller unit includes a platen having a platen face and an actuator configured to join the platen and the one or more microfluidic devices to form a seal between the platen face and the one or more microfluidic devices, the one or more inlets being adapted to provide, in response to fluid pressure provided by the fluidic controller unit, one or more inputs into the plurality of reaction chambers to manipulate one or more processes being carried out in at least one of the plurality of reaction chambers in the one or more microfluidic devices. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a fluid handling system coupled between the input device and the output device, the fluid handling system being adapted to transfer one or more fluids from one or more respective fluid sources to one or more microfluidic devices. 3. The system of claim 1 further comprising a chip hotel coupled to the image capturing workstation, the chip hotel being adapted to house one or more microfluidic devices therein in a predetermined environment. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein the chip hotel is adapted to maintain at least one of a predetermined temperature or relative humidity therein. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processes comprises a process selected from the group consisting of a mixing process, a temporal process, and a temperature process. 6. The system of claim 1 further comprising a thermal transfer entity being adapted to cause transfer of thermal energy to or from one or more microfluidic devices. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the fluidic controller unit comprises a free interface diffusion crystallizer. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more microfluidic devices comprise microfluidic elastomeric devices. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the one or more microfluidic devices is a chip adapted to perform a polynucleotide amplification reaction. 10. The system of claim 6 wherein the thermal transfer entity is adapted to apply a selected amount of thermal energy to the one or more microfluidic devices to cause at least a portion of one of the plurality of reaction chambers to increase and/or decrease in temperature. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein the image capturing workstation is capable of capturing one or more images from a portion of at least one of the plurality of reaction chambers. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein the image capturing workstation is capable of capturing a single image of all of the plurality of reaction chambers simultaneously. 13. The system of claim 1 wherein the image capturing workstation is adapted to capture a real time image of at least a portion of one of the plurality of reaction chambers. 14. The system of claim 1 wherein the fluid pressure provided by the fluidic controller unit comprises gas pressure. 15. A system for use with a microfluidic device having a plurality of inlets disposed in a surface of the microfluidic device and a plurality of reaction chambers in fluid communication with the plurality of inlets, the system comprising: an automation table; a robot device coupled to the automation table, wherein the robot device includes a robot arm; an input device coupled to the automation table and adapted to receive the microfluidic device from a user; an output device coupled to the automation table and adapted to output the microfluidic device to a user; an image capturing workstation coupled to the automation table and adapted to capture one or more images of at least a portion of one or more of the plurality of reaction chambers; and a robotic station configured to receive and actuate the microfluidic device, wherein robotic station includes: a platform having a receiving bay configured to receive the microfluidic device; a platen having a platen face; an actuator coupled to the platen and configured to join the platen and the microfluidic device to form a pressure cavity upon physical contact between the platen face and at least a portion of the surface of the microfluidic device; and ports disposed in the platen face and configured to provide fluid pressure to the pressure cavity and the plurality of inlets disposed in the surface of the microfluidic device. 16. The system of claim 15 further comprising a chip hotel coupled to the automation table and adapted to house the microfluidic device therein in a predetermined environment. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein the chip hotel is adapted to maintain at least one of a predetermined temperature or relative humidity therein. 18. The system of claim 15 further comprising a thermal transfer entity coupled to the automation table and adapted to cause transfer of thermal energy to or from the microfluidic device. 19. The system of claim 15 wherein the microfluidic device comprises a microfluidic elastomeric device. 20. The system of claim 15 wherein the microfluidic device is a chip adapted to perform a polynucleotide amplification reaction. 21. The system of claim 15 further comprising a thermal transfer entity coupled to the automation table and adapted to apply a selected amount of thermal energy to the microfluidic device to cause at least a portion of the one or more of the plurality of reaction chambers to increase and/or decrease in temperature. 22. The system of claim 15 wherein the image capturing workstation is capable of capturing one or more images from at least a portion of at least one of the plurality of reaction chambers. 23. The system of claim 15 wherein the image capturing workstation is capable of capturing a single image of all of the plurality of reaction chambers simultaneously. 24. The system of claim 15 wherein the fluid pressure comprises gas pressure. 25. The system of claim 15 wherein the robotic station further comprises a shroud disposed at a periphery of the platen and configured to surround a periphery of the microfluidic device. 