A multi-chamber processing system is described for depositing materials on multiple workpieces (wafers, display panels, or any other workpieces) at a time in a vacuum chamber. The system includes a sputtering chamber and a separate pre-clean chamber, where wafers can be transferred between the two chambers by a robotic arm without breaking a vacuum. The wafers are mounted one-by-one onto a rotating pallet in the pre-cleaning chamber and sputtering chamber. The pallet is firmly fixed to a rotatable table in the sputtering chamber. Copper tubing in the table couples RF energy to the wafers, and a liquid running through the copper tubing controls the temperature of the wafers. Multiple targets, of the same or different materials, may concurrently deposit material on the wafers as the pallet is rotating. Multiple magnets (one for each target) in the magnetron assembly in the sputtering chamber oscillate over their respective targets for uniform target erosion and uniform deposition on the wafers. An electrically insulated target backing plate between each magnet and a target has a liquid channel running through it for controlling temperature. The distance between the magnets and the targets is made very small by a thin aluminum plate fixed to the bottom segment of the target backing plate by a dip brazing process. Various shields are described to prevent cross-contamination from the targets and prevent the sputtered target material from entering gaps in the chamber and shorting out insulators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sputtering system comprising: a low pressure chamber having side walls and a top wall for maintaining a low pressure in the chamber; a pallet in the chamber facing the top wall, the pallet having a plurality of workpiece support areas for concurrently supporting a plurality of workpieces on the pallet; a plurality of electrically conductive target support surfaces, forming a portion of the top wall, supporting a plurality of targets having sputtering surfaces facing the pallet; an electrically conductive first plate, forming a portion of the top wall, supporting the target support surfaces and being electrically insulated from the target support surfaces by an insulator forming a portion of the top wall, the insulator separately circumscribing each of the target support surfaces and each of the targets, the first plate extending laterally between each of the target support surfaces and each of the targets; each target being separated from the first plate by a first gap to provide electrical insulation between each target and the first plate, the first gap separately circumscribing each target; and a unitary shield plate, forming a portion of the top wall, fixed to and abutting the first plate and covering the first plate at least between the targets, the shield plate having openings for the targets, the shield plate shielding the first plate during a sputtering process, the shield plate overlying a portion of the first gap, with no other plate in-between the shield plate and the first gap, such that a resulting second gap between each target and the first plate is less than the first gap, the shield plate being removable from the first plate for cleaning of the shield plate or disposing of the shield plate. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the shield plate is secured to the first plate with screws. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the first plate and the shield plate are aluminum. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein the shield plate is generally circular with openings for the targets. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the second gap is less than 2 mm. 