In one embodiment of the invention, a method of mounting a surgical robotic arm to a set-up arm of a robotic surgical system is provided that includes sliding a pair of guide slots of the surgical robotic arm over a pair of guide tabs in the set-up arm; aligning electrical connectors in the set-up arm to electrical connectors of the surgical robotic arm; and coincidentally mating male electrical connectors to female electrical connectors while finally mating the guide tabs in the set-up arm to flanges of a housing of the surgical robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a set-up arm of a robotic surgical system to couple to a surgical robotic arm, the set-up arm having a connector portion including a mounting bracket coupled to the set-up arm, the mounting bracket having at least one opening to receive at least one electrical connector, the mounting bracket adapted to slidingly couple to and support the surgical robotic arm; at least one electrical connector having a portion thereof in the at least one opening of the mounting bracket, the at least one electrical connector further having a flange portion outside the at least one opening of the mounting bracket; and a capture plate rigidly coupled to the mounting bracket, the capture plate having at least one opening aligned with the at least one opening in the mounting bracket, to form at least one sliding pocket to slidingly hold the at least one electrical connector. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one opening is in a mounting rail at the base of the mounting bracket and the mounting bracket further includes a first mechanical connector rail coupled to the mounting rail on a first side of the mounting bracket, the first mechanical connector rail having a first guide tab, and a second mechanical connector rail coupled to the mounting rail on a second side of the mounting bracket opposite the first side, the second mechanical connector rail having a second guide tab, and wherein the first guide tab and the second guide tab to mate with flanges of a surgical robotic arm to avoid pivoting thereof from the set-up arm. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of the at least one electrical connector is a D-subminiature electrical connector having a D-shaped shield. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of the at least one electrical connectors include a pair of connector openings to receive a pair of guide pins to respectively align each within each of the at least one sliding pockets. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base of the mounting bracket includes at least one pair of guide holes to receive at least one pair of guide pins, and each of the at least one electrical connectors include a pair of connector openings under the guide holes to receive the pair of guide pins to respectively align each within each of the at least one sliding pockets. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the base of the mounting bracket includes a pair of threaded screw holes, the capture plate includes a pair of holes aligned with the pair of threaded screw holes in the mounting bracket, and the apparatus further comprises a pair of screws inserted into the pair of holes of the capture plate and screwed into the pair of threaded screw holes to couple the capture plate to the base of the mounting bracket. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one opening of the mounting bracket overlaps the at least one opening of the capture plate. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the connector portion of the set up arm of the robotic surgical system further includes a housing coupled to the mounting bracket, the housing including a first plurality of threaded bolt holes to receive a first plurality of threaded bolts to rigidly hold a surgical robotic arm coupled to the set up arm. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the mounting bracket includes a first plurality of openings to receive two or more of the first plurality of threaded bolts. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the mounting bracket includes a second plurality of openings to receive a second plurality of threaded bolts, the housing further includes a second plurality of threaded bolt holes, and the connector portion of the set up arm further includes a second plurality of bolts inserted through the second plurality of openings in the mounting bracket and threaded into the second plurality of threaded bolt holes to couple the housing and the mounting bracket together. 11. A method of mounting a surgical robotic arm to a set-up arm of a robotic surgical system, the method comprising: sliding a pair of guide slots of a housing of the surgical robotic arm over a pair of guide tabs in a housing of the set-up arm; aligning electrical connectors in the set-up arm to electrical connectors of the surgical robotic arm; and coincidentally mating male electrical connectors to female electrical connectors while finally mating the guide tabs in the set-up arm to flanges of the housing of the surgical robotic arm. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: bolting the housing of the surgical robotic arm to the housing of the set-up arm. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the aligning of electrical connectors in the set-up arm to electrical connectors of surgical robotic arm includes inserting a plurality of tapered guide pins of one or more fixed electrical connectors into a plurality of openings in one or more floating electrical connectors, and independently moving the one or more floating electrical connectors into alignment with the one or more fixed electrical connectors. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the electrical connectors of the set-up arm are rigidly coupled to a floating bracket; and the aligning of electrical connectors in the set-up arm to electrical connectors of surgical robotic arm includes inserting a plurality of alignment pins into a plurality of alignment openings in the floating bracket, and moving the floating bracket to align the electrical connectors of the set-up arm with the electrical connectors of the surgical robotic arm. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the electrical connectors of the set-up arm are coupled to a floating bracket, the male electrical connectors each have a tapered shielding, and the female electrical connectors each have a flared shielding; and the aligning of electrical connectors in the set-up arm to electrical connectors of surgical robotic arm includes inserting the tapered shielding into the flared shielding, and moving the floating bracket to align the electrical connectors of the set-up arm with the electrical connectors of the surgical robotic arm. 16. The method of claim 11, wherein the mating of male electrical connectors to female electrical connectors includes mating pins of the male electrical connectors to sockets of the female electrical connectors. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the set-up arm includes the female electrical connectors with the sockets, and the surgical robotic arm includes the male electrical connectors with the pins. 18. An apparatus comprising: a set-up arm of a robotic surgical system to couple to a surgical robotic arm, the set-up arm having a connector portion including a mounting bracket detachably coupled to the set-up arm, the mounting bracket having a left mounting rail with a left guide tab coupled thereto and a right mounting rail with a right guide tab coupled thereto, the mounting bracket adapted to slidingly couple to and support the surgical robotic arm; at least one electrical connector having pins or sockets and shielding around the pins or sockets, the at least one electrical connector further having a flange; and at least one pair of floating fasteners coupled between the mounting bracket and the flange of the at least one electrical connector, the at least one pair of floating fasteners to allow the at least one electrical connector of the set-up arm to float and align with at least one electrical connector of the surgical robotic arm. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the flange of the at least one electrical connector includes at least two alignment openings to receive alignment pins to align the at least one electrical connector of the set-up arm with at least one mating electrical connector of a surgical robotic arm. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the shielding of the at least one electrical connector of the set-up arm is tapered or flared to align with at least one mating electrical connector of a surgical robotic arm having shielding that is respectively flared or tapered. 21. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the at least one pair of floating fasteners includes at least one pair of floating bushings, the at least one electrical connector slidingly coupled to the at least one pair of floating bushings, and the at least one pair of floating fasteners further includes at least one pair of fasteners to couple the at least one pair of floating bushings to the mounting bracket. 22. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the at least one electrical connector of the set-up arm to float substantially perpendicular to an axis of the pins or sockets of the at least one electrical connector. 23. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the connector portion further includes a floating bracket slidingly coupled between the pair of floating fasteners and the flange of the at least one electrical connector, the floating bracket including at least one opening to receive the pins or sockets and shielding of the at least one electrical connector. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the shielding of the at least one electrical connector of the set-up arm is tapered or flared to slide the floating bracket and align with at least one mating electrical connector of a surgical robotic arm with shielding that is respectively flared or tapered. 25. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the floating bracket further includes at least one pair of alignment openings to receive alignment pins to slide the floating bracket and align the at least one electrical connector of the set-up arm with at least one electrical connector of a surgical robotic arm. 26. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the at least one pair of floating fasteners includes at least one pair of floating bushings, the floating bracket slidingly coupled to the at least one pair of floating bushings, and the at least one pair of floating fasteners further includes at least one pair of fasteners to couple the at least one pair of floating bushings respectively to a base of the left mounting rail and the right mounting rail of the mounting bracket. 27. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the at least one pair of floating fasteners includes at least one pair of short shoulder screws to slidingly couple the floating bracket to the mounting bracket. 28. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein a plurality of grommets couple the at least one electrical connector to the floating bracket. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, wherein at least two of the plurality of grommets having openings to receive alignment pins to align the at least one electrical connector with an electrical connector of a surgical robotic arm. 