Compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of C-reactive protein. The compositions comprise oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acid encoding C-reactive protein. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of C-reactive protein expression and for diagnosis and treatment of disease associated with expression of C-reactive protein are provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A compound comprising a chimeric oligonucleotide 15 to 30 nucleobases in length, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide comprises at least a 15 nucleobase portion having at least 90% complementarity to at least a 15 nucleobase portion of SEQ ID NO: 4 wherein said compound comprises at least an 8 contiguous nucleobase portion of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 186, or a salt thereof. 2. The compound of claim 1, wherein said compound is single-stranded. 3. The compound of claim 1, wherein said compound is double-stranded. 4. The compound of claim 1, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide has a nucleobase sequence that is 95% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4. 5. The compound of claim 1, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide has a nucleobase sequence that is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4. 6. The compound of claim 1, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 7. The compound of claim 1, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide comprises at least one 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 8. The compound of claim 1, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide comprises at least one phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 9. The compound of claim 1, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide comprises at least one 5-methylcytosine. 10. The compound of claim 1, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide comprises a segment of linked 2'deoxyribonucleosides positioned between wing segments, each wing segment having two to five linked nucleosides comprising modified sugar moieties, wherein each internucleoside linkage of said chimeric oligonucleotide is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage and wherein all cytosine residues are 5-methylcytosines. 11. The compound of claim 10, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide comprises at least one bicyclic nucleic acid sugar moiety. 12. A compound that is 12-30 nucleobases in length comprising: at least 8 contiguous nucleobases of SEQ ID NO: 186; a 5' terminus having two to five consecutive 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleosides; a 3' terminus having two to five consecutive 2'-O-methoxyethyl nucleosides; and a gap portion having ten to sixteen consecutive 2'-deoxyribonucleosides positioned between said 5' terminus and said 3' terminus. 13. The compound of claim 12, wherein all internucleoside linkages are phosphorothioate internucleoside linkages. 14. The compound of claim 12, wherein all cytosine residues are 5-methylcytosines. 15. The compound of claim 12, wherein each terminus is two nucleosides in length and said gap portion is sixteen nucleosides in length. 16. The compound of claim 12, wherein each terminus is three nucleosides in length and said gap portion is fourteen nucleosides in length. 17. The compound of claim 12, wherein each terminus is four nucleosides in length and said gap portion is twelve nucleosides in length. 18. The compound of claim 12, wherein said compound has a nucleobase sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO: 186. 19. The compound of claim 12, wherein said compound has a nucleobase sequence having at least 95% complementarity to SEQ ID NO: 4. 20. The compound of claim 12, wherein said compound has a nucleobase sequence that is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4. 21. The compound of claim 1, wherein the salt is a sodium salt. 22. A composition comprising the compound of claim 21 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. 23. A method of reducing expression of C-reactive protein in an animal, comprising administering to said animal a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of the oligomeric compound of claim 1 so that expression of C-reactive protein in said animal is inhibited. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein said animal is a human. 25. The method of claim 23, additionally comprising administering an anti-inflammatory compound. 26. A method of treating coronary artery disease, unstable angina, stroke, atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction, thrombosis, obesity, metabolic syndrome, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, acute coronary syndrome, or coronary artery stenting in an animal in need thereof, said method comprising administering to said animal a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of the compound of claim 1 so that expression of C-reactive protein in said animal is inhibited, thereby treating coronary artery disease, unstable angina, stroke, atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction, thrombosis, obesity, metabolic syndrome, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, acute coronary syndrome, or coronary artery stenting in the animal. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein said compound has a nucleobase sequence that is 95% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein said compound has a nucleobase sequence that is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO: 4. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein all internucleoside linkages are phosphorothioate internucleoside linkages. 30. The method of claim 26, wherein all cytosine residues are 5-methylcytosines. 31. The method of claim 26, wherein each terminus is five nucleosides in length and said gap portion is ten nucleosides in length. 32. The method of claim 26, wherein each terminus is three nucleosides in length and said gap portion is fourteen nucleosides in length. 33. The method of claim 26, wherein each terminus is four nucleosides in length and said gap portion is twelve nucleosides in length. 34. The method of claim 26, wherein said compound is single-stranded. 35. The method of claim 26, wherein said compound is double-stranded. 36. The method of claim 26, wherein said animal is a human. 37. The compound of claim 1, wherein said compound comprises a portion having ten contiguous 2'-deoxyribonucleoside positioned between a 5' terminus and a 3' terminus, wherein said 5' terminus has five contiguous 2'-O-methoxyethylnucleosides, wherein said 3' terminus has five contiguous 2'-O-methoxyethylnucleosides, wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage, and wherein each cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine. 38. The compound of claim 12, wherein each terminus is five nucleosides in length and said gap portion is ten nucleosides in length. 39. The method of claim 26, wherein each terminus is five nucleosides in length and said gap portion is ten nucleosides in length. 40. The compound of claim 1, wherein the chimeric oligonucleotide is 20 nucleobases in length. 41. The method of claim 26, wherein said compound has a nucleobase sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO: 186. 42. The method of claim 26, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide has a nucleobase sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO: 186, wherein the chimeric oligonucleotide comprises a) a gap segment of ten linked deoxynucleosides, b) a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides c) a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' and 3' wing segments, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises s 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar, wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage, and wherein each cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine. 43. A compound comprising an oligonucleotide 20 nucleobases in length, wherein said oligonucleotide has a nucleobase sequence consisting of SEQ ID NO:186, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises a) a gap segment of ten linked deoxynucleosides, b) a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides c) a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' and 3' wing segments, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar, wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage, and wherein each cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine. 44. The compound of claim 1, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 45. The compound of claim 1, wherein said chimeric oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 