A method is provided for the preparation and performance of a total knee arthroplasty. The method includes making a primary incision near the knee joint of a leg of a patient. The incision is sized or located preserving a quadriceps mechanism in the leg of the patient. The method also includes resecting medial and lateral condyles of the femur of the leg to create at least one femoral cut surface and moving a femoral component of a total knee implant through the primary incision. The method further includes positioning the femoral component with respect to the at least one femoral cut surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing and preparations for a knee arthroplasty, comprising: making a single primary incision near the knee joint of a leg of a patient, the incision sized or located such that a quadriceps mechanism in the leg of the patient is substantially preserved; resecting a surface of at least one of the medial and lateral condyles; resecting a surface of the trochlear groove of the femur of the leg; moving a femoral component of a knee implant having an articulating surface operative to replace substantially the entire articulating surfaces of the trochlear groove and at least one of the medial and lateral condyles, through the primary incision; and positioning the femoral component with respect to the at least one femoral resected surface. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of resecting a tibia of the leg to create at least one tibial cut surface, moving a tibial component of the knee implant through the primary incision, and positioning the tibial component with respect to the at least one tibial cut surface. 3. The method according to claim 2, further comprising the step of displacing a patella of the leg to an offset position so that the inner side of the patella remains in a position facing the femur. 4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising the step of resecting a portion of the patella to create a patellar cut surface, moving a patellar component of the knee implant through the primary incision, and positioning the patellar component with respect to the patellar cut surface. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the step of resecting the patella is performed before resecting the tibia and femur. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the primary incision is made when the knee joint of the leg is flexed. 7. The method according to claim 6, wherein a lower portion of the leg is suspended relative to an upper portion of the leg. 8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising moving a guide member through the primary incision and positioning the guide member against the femur, the guide member having a guide surface. 9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the resection step includes positioning a cutting tool in association with the guide surface of the guide member. 10. The method according to claim 9, further comprising the steps of removing the guide member from the femur prior to completing the cut of the medial and lateral condyles and the trochlear groove and continuing the cut of the medial and lateral condyles while guiding the cutting tool along a cut surface. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the length of the primary incision is less than thirteen (13) centimeters. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the length of the primary incision is less than seven (7) centimeters. 13. The method according to claim 1, further comprising making a secondary incision near the knee joint of the leg, the secondary incision having a length less than the length of the primary incision, wherein both of the primary and secondary incisions are sized or located such that a quadriceps mechanism in the leg of the patient is preserved. 14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising the step of moving an imaging device through the secondary incision. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the incision is made over a collateral ligament. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the patella is moved to a lateral side of its normal position, with the inner side of the patella facing inward toward the distal end portion of the femur. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the incision is formed in an approach selected from the group consisting of: mid vastus, sub vastus. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the patella is elevated, while maintaining the patellar articulating surface facing the trochlear groove, using a technique selected from the group consisting of: inflatable retraction, fluid retraction, mechanical retraction. 19. The method of claim 1, further including: carrying out the method while preserving the cruciate ligaments. 20. The method of claim 1, further including: positioning a polymeric cutting guide in alignment with the femur; wherein said steps of resecting are performed using the cutting guide. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein said steps of resecting are performed using computer navigation. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the medial and lateral condyles and the trochlear groove are resected to create a first anterior femoral cut surface forming a flat planar configuration, and further including: resecting the distal and posterior surfaces of the distal femur to create second and third femoral cut surfaces, each forming flat planar configurations; and resecting two chamfer surfaces, a first chamfer surface between the anterior and distal cut surfaces, and a second chamfer surface between the posterior and distal cut surfaces, to form fourth and fifth cut surfaces, each forming flat planar configurations. 23. A method of performing surgery on a knee portion of a patient wherein the quadriceps mechanism in the leg of the patient is preserved throughout the method, comprising: making a single primary incision at or near the knee portion, the primary incision located offset from a midline of the patella; displacing the patella medially or laterally of its normal position while maintaining the articulating surface of the patella facing the trochlear groove; resecting a surface of the medial and lateral condyles and the trochlear groove of the femur of the leg, to create a femoral cut surface; resecting the proximal tibial surface; affixing a knee implant operative to replace the resected articular surfaces of the femur, the implant comprising not more than three articulating surface portions, to the cut surfaces. 24. The method according to claim 23, wherein the incision is less than thirteen (13) centimeters. 25. The method according to claim 24, further comprising the step of moving a cutting instrument through the incision. 26. The method according to claim 25, wherein the incision is made when the knee joint of the leg is flexed. 27. The method according to claim 26, wherein a lower portion of the leg is suspended relative to an upper portion of the leg. 28. The method according to claim 27, further comprising the step of resecting a portion of the patella to create a patellar cut surface, moving a patellar component of the knee implant through the primary incision, and positioning the patellar component with respect to the patellar cut surface. 29. The method according to claim 28, wherein the step of resecting the patella is performed before resecting the tibia and femur. 30. The method of claim 23, further including positioning a cutting guide having a guide surface offset from a central axis of a bone to be cut, wherein said step of resecting a surface of the medial and lateral condyles or said step of resecting a surface of the trochlear groove includes using the guide surface of the positioned cutting guide to guide a cutting instrument. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein said cutting guide is positioned using preoperative image of the bone to be cut. 32. The method of claim 30, wherein using the guide surface includes guiding the cutting instrument within a slot of the cutting guide. 33. The method of claim 23, wherein the incision is formed in an approach selected from the group consisting of: mid vastus, sub vastus. 34. The method of claim 23, further including: carrying out the method while preserving the cruciate ligaments. 35. The method of claim 23, further including: positioning a polymeric cutting guide in alignment with the femur; wherein said steps of resecting are performed using the cutting guide. 36. A method of performing knee arthroplasty which reduces damage and disruption of the quadriceps mechanism, comprising: performing knee arthroplasty at least two times, at intervals of more than one year, each knee arthroplasty including (a) making a single primary incision, of not more than 13 centimeters in length, near the knee joint of a leg of a patient, the incision sized or located such that a quadriceps mechanism in the leg of the patient is preserved, the primary incision located laterally of the patella; (b) resecting a surface of at least one, but not every one, of the medial condyle, the lateral condyle, the trochlear groove, and the patella; (c) moving at least one knee replacement component through the primary incision, without damage and disruption of the quadriceps mechanism, each of said at least one component having an articulating surface operative to replace substantially the entire articulating surface of at least one of the resected surfaces; (d) positioning the at least one component with respect to the resected surfaces. 