In a first aspect, a substrate loading station is served by a conveyor which continuously transports substrate carriers. A substrate carrier handler that is part of the substrate loading station operates to exchange substrate carriers with the conveyor while the conveyor is in motion. A carrier exchange procedure may include moving an end effector of the substrate carrier handler at a velocity that substantially matches a velocity of the conveyor. Numerous other aspects are provided.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for supplying substrates to a processing tool, comprising: a substrate carrier handler for transporting a substrate carrier to a first load port of the processing tool, the substrate carrier handler including an end effector for supporting the substrate carrier, wherein the substrate carrier handler includes a pair of vertical guides and a horizontal guide coupled to the vertical guides, the horizontal guide being mounted for vertical movement along the vertical guides, and wherein the end effector is mounted for horizontal movement along the horizontal guide; a controller coupled to the substrate carrier handler and operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the horizontal guide is raised in a vertical direction to an elevation such that the end effector mounted on the horizontal guide of the substrate carrier handler engages the substrate carrier as the end effector moves along the horizontal guide and disengages the substrate carrier from a substrate carrier conveyor while the substrate carrier is in motion and being transported by the substrate carrier conveyor; and wherein the substrate carrier conveyor includes adjacent carrier engagement members, and a distance between adjacent substrate carriers on the substrate carrier conveyor is less than a distance between adjacent carrier engagement members on the substrate carrier conveyor. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the controller is operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler substantially matches a motion of the substrate carrier during at least a portion of the disengagement of the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the controller is operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler substantially matches a velocity of the substrate carrier during at least a portion of the disengagement of the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the controller is operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler substantially matches a speed and position of the substrate carrier in a horizontal direction during at least a portion of the disengagement of the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the controller is further operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector contacts the substrate carrier with at least one of a substantially zero velocity or less and a substantially zero acceleration or less in a vertical direction to disengage the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the controller is further operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector contacts the substrate carrier with substantially zero acceleration or less in a horizontal direction of travel of the substrate carrier conveyor to disengage the substrate carrier from the substrate carrier conveyor. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first load port comprising a first docking station, and further comprising at least one other docking station vertically disposed relative to the first docking station. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising two columns of docking stations, the first docking station being included in one of the two columns of docking stations. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one sensor coupled to the controller for indicating a position of a component of the substrate carrier conveyor. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the substrate carrier is a single substrate carrier. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end effector of the substrate carrier handler includes a horizontally oriented platform having a plurality of kinematic features. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the conveyor is positioned above the substrate carrier handler. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one storage shelf for storing a substrate carrier; wherein the substrate carrier handler transports a substrate carrier between the first load port and the at least one storage shelf. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the controller is further operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler transfers the substrate carrier to the substrate carrier conveyor while the substrate carrier conveyor is in motion. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the controller is operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the end effector of the substrate carrier handler substantially matches a motion of the substrate carrier conveyor during at least a portion of the transfer of the substrate carrier to the substrate carrier conveyor. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the distance between adjacent substrate carriers is related to a horizontal dimension of the substrate carrier. 17. An apparatus for supplying substrates to a processing tool, comprising: a substrate carrier handler for transporting a substrate carrier to a first load port of the processing tool, the substrate carrier handler including an end effector for supporting the substrate carrier, wherein the substrate carrier handler includes a pair of vertical guides and a horizontal guide coupled to the vertical guides, the horizontal guide being mounted for vertical movement along the vertical guides, and wherein the end effector is mounted for horizontal movement along the horizontal guide; a controller coupled to the substrate carrier handler and operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the horizontal guide is raised in a vertical direction to an elevation such that the end effector mounted on the horizontal guide of the substrate carrier handler engages the substrate carrier as the end effector moves along the horizontal guide and disengages the substrate carrier from a substrate carrier conveyor while the substrate carrier is in motion and being transported by the substrate carrier conveyor; and wherein the end effector includes one or more kinematic features, and wherein the kinematic features rise to disengage the substrate carrier. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the kinematic features rise to an elevation equal to at least an elevation of a bottom of the substrate carrier. 19. The apparatus of claim 18 wherein the kinematic features arc adapted to rise to an elevation greater than or equal to the elevation of the bottom of the substrate carrier plus a height of a seat of a carrier engagement member supporting the substrate carrier. 20. An apparatus for supplying substrates to a processing tool, comprising: a substrate carrier handler for transporting a substrate carrier to a first load port of the processing tool, the substrate carrier handler including an end effector for supporting the substrate carrier, wherein the substrate carrier handler includes a pair of vertical guides and a horizontal guide coupled to the vertical guides, the horizontal guide being mounted for vertical movement along the vertical guides, and wherein the end effector is mounted for horizontal movement along the horizontal guide; a controller coupled to the substrate carrier handler and operative to control the substrate carrier handler such that the horizontal guide is raised in a vertical direction to an elevation such that the end effector mounted on the horizontal guide of the substrate carrier handler engages the substrate carrier as the end effector moves along the horizontal guide and disengages the substrate carrier from a substrate carrier conveyor while the substrate carrier is in motion and being transported by the substrate carrier conveyor; and wherein the horizontal guide is positioned near one or more upper ends of the vertical guides when an operation for unloading the substrate carrier is performed. 