A system for performing minimally invasive cardiac procedures includes a pair of surgical instruments coupled to a pair of robotic arms with end effectors that can be manipulated to hold and suture tissue. The robotic arms are coupled to a pair of master handles by a controller to produce a corresponding movement of the end effectors. The movement of the handles is scaled such that the end effectors movement corresponds differently, typically smaller, than the movement performed by the hands of the surgeon. The input button allows the surgeon to adjust the position of the handles without moving the end effector, so that the handles can be moved to a more comfortable position. The system may include a robotically controlled endoscope allowing the surgeon to remotely view a surgical site. The surgeon may manipulate handles and move end effectors to perform a cardiac procedure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical robotic system comprising: a robotic arm; a surgical instrument coupled to the robotic arm, wherein the surgical instrument comprises an end effector; an input device; and a controller coupled to the robotic arm and to the input device; wherein the controller, in response to receiving a signal that a surgeon has moved the input device in a first degree of freedom, outputs a command to move the end effector in a first corresponding degree of freedom, the movement of the end effector in the first corresponding degree of freedom being scaled by a first scaling factor to the movement of the input device in the first degree of freedom; wherein the controller, in response to receiving a signal that the surgeon has moved the input device in a second degree of freedom, outputs a command to move the end effector in a second corresponding degree of freedom, the movement of the end effector in the second corresponding degree of freedom being scaled by a second scaling factor to the movement of the input device in the second degree of freedom; and wherein the first and second scaling factors are different non-1 values. 2. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the first scaling factor has a value more than 1 and the second scaling factor has a value less than 1. 3. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the first and second scaling factors have non-zero values less than 1. 4. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the first and second scaling factors have values more than 1. 5. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to allow the surgeon to vary the first scaling factor in a range that includes a zero value. 6. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to allow the surgeon to vary the first and second scaling factors. 7. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein movement of the end effector has been filtered to remove a hand tremor of the surgeon. 8. The medical robotic system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to store a preplanned movement of one of the surgical instruments and to allow the surgeon to actuate the preplanned movement. 9. The medical robotic system of claim 1: wherein the end effector is selected from a group consisting of a gripper, a stapling tool, a cutting device, a coagulating device, and a suturing tool; and wherein the medical robotic system further comprises: a second robotic arm; a second surgical instrument coupled to the second robotic arm, wherein the second surgical instrument comprises an endoscope; a third robotic arm; a third surgical instrument coupled to the third robotic arm, wherein the third robotic arm comprises a tissue stabilizer; a fourth robotic arm; and a fourth surgical instrument coupled to the fourth robotic arm. 10. The medical robotic system of claim 9, wherein the tissue stabilizer comprises a blood vessel stabilizer. 11. A medical robotic system comprising: a robotic arm; a surgical instrument coupled to the robotic arm, wherein the surgical instrument comprises an end effector; an input device; and a controller coupled to the robotic arm and to the input device; wherein the system is configured to allow the surgeon to activate the input device such that movement of the input device in a first direction moves the end effector in a corresponding direction; wherein the system is configured to allow the surgeon to deactivate the input device such that when the surgeon moves the input device in a direction opposite the first direction the end effector remains stationary; wherein the system is configured to allow the surgeon to reactivate the input device such that movement of the input device in the first direction further moves the end effector in the corresponding direction; wherein before deactivating the input device the end effector moves as a function of a first scaling factor applied to the movement of the input device in the first direction; wherein after reactivating the input device the end effector moves as a function of a second scaling factor applied to movement of the input device in the first direction; and wherein the first and second scaling factors are different non-1 values. 12. The medical robotic system of claim 11, wherein the activation, deactivation, and reactivation of the input device is controlled with a button. 13. The medical robotic system of claim 11, wherein the activation, deactivation, and reactivation of the input device is controlled with voice commands. 14. The medical robotic system of claim 11, wherein movement of the end effector is filtered to remove a hand tremor of the surgeon. 15. The medical robotic system of claim 11, wherein the controller is configured to store a preplanned movement of one of the surgical instruments and to allow the surgeon to actuate the preplanned movement. 16. The medical robotic system of claim 11: wherein the end effector is selected from a group consisting of a gripper, a stapling tool, a cutting device, a coagulating device, and a suturing tool; and wherein the medical robotic system further comprises: a second robotic arm; a second surgical instrument coupled to the second robotic arm, wherein the second surgical instrument comprises an endoscope; a third robotic arm; a third surgical instrument coupled to the third robotic arm, wherein the third robotic arm comprises a tissue stabilizer; a fourth robotic arm; and a fourth surgical instrument coupled the fourth robotic arm. 17. The medical robotic system of claim 16, wherein the tissue stabilizer comprises a blood vessel stabilizer. 