The present invention provides a random access and random load dispensing unit including a housing, at least one support located in the housing and defining a first axis, a plurality of platforms movable along the support along the first axis, a plurality of bins supported on the platforms, the bins being movable with the platforms, and a shuttle assembly movable along the first axis and further movable along a second axis substantially perpendicular to the first axis between the plurality of platforms to access and retrieve products stored in the bins.
Claims We claim: 1. A communication network for use in delivering pharmacy-filled prescriptions associated with specific consumers that are stored in a random storage and delivery device comprising: a random storage and delivery device comprising a housing for securely enclosing at least one hundred prescription storage locations, each prescription storage location designed to store a unique, pharmacy-filled prescription that has been associated with a specific consumer before being placed within the device, a consumer interface, a delivery apparatus that can deliver any pharmacy-filled prescription stored at any prescription storage location, and a dispensing computer that communicates with the consumer interface and the delivery apparatus; a sensor, located within the housing, for sensing a sensable identifier associated with each consumer-specific prescription; wherein each consumer-specific prescription is randomly stored at a non-predesignated storage location, and said dispensing computer receives information about the identity and location of said stored consumer-specific prescription from said sensor which senses said sensable identifier after said consumer-specific prescription is placed at the non-predesignated prescription storage location, to allow the storage and delivery device to associate said consumer-specific prescription to the non-predesignated storage location after said consumer-specific prescription is stored; a pharmacy information system for storing electronic records associated with stored consumer-specific prescriptions, which are created by the pharmacy and comprise a unique consumer identifier and a prescription number associated with the consumer; and an interface engine that communicates with the pharmacy information system and the dispensing computer, and through which a unique electronic record corresponding to each consumer-specific prescription stored in the storage and delivery device is transferred from the pharmacy information system to the dispensing computer; wherein the consumer interface receives identification information from a consumer, the dispensing computer determines the location of a consumer-specific prescription stored within the storage and delivery device for that consumer, and which corresponds to the electronic record for that consumer-specific prescription, and the dispensing computer controls the delivery apparatus to deliver the consumer-specific prescription to the consumer. 2. The communication network of claim 1, wherein the electronic record further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a drug name, a drug code, a brand name, and a generic name. 3. The communication network of claim 2, wherein the electronic record comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a retail price, a co-pay amount, a consumer insurance information, and a Medicaid information. 4. The communication network of claim 3, wherein the record further comprises an information selected from a group consisting of: a physician name, and a physician contact information. 5. The communication network of claim 1, further comprising a retail store point of sale system that communicates with a retail store's financial accounting system that communicates with the interface engine. 6. The communication network of claim 5, wherein the point of sale system communicates with the pharmacy information system. 7. The communication network of claim 5, wherein the point of sale system communicates with a financial accounting system. 8. The communication network of claim 7, wherein the point of sale system communicates with the pharmacy information system via the interface engine. 9. The communication network of claim 8, wherein the dispensing computer sends a prescription number to the point of sale system via the interface engine, and the point of sale system transmits a purchase price to the dispensing computer via the interface engine. 10. The communication network of claim 8, wherein the dispensing computer sends a prescription number to the pharmacy information system via the interface engine, and the pharmacy information system transmits a purchase price to the dispensing computer via the interface engine. 11. The communication network of claim 9, wherein the dispensing device stores a plurality of unique, pharmacy-filled prescriptions for one consumer, each prescription medication being associated with a different electronic record. 12. The communication network of claim 1, further comprising a controller to control the delivery apparatus, wherein the controller communicates with the dispensing computer or the pharmacy information system. 13. The communication network of claim 12, wherein the delivery apparatus further comprises robotics, and the controller controls the robotics. 14. The communication network of claim 1, wherein the storage and delivery device comprises at least five hundred unique storage locations. 15. The communication network of claim 5, further comprising a storage location database, wherein the database associates every storage location storing a prescription with a specific consumer. 16. The communication network of claim 15, wherein the storage location database further comprises a list of consumers who have registered to use the dispensing device. 17. The communication network of claim 16, wherein the consumer interface further comprises a touch screen and an identification reader, and the dispensing computer communicates with the touch screen and the identification reader. 18. The communication network of claim 17, wherein after identification of the consumer, the dispensing computer receives a user identification from the consumer interface and communicates with the database to compare the consumer's identity with the registered consumers stored in the database. 19. The communication network of claim 18, wherein the dispensing computer queries the storage location database to identify all consumer-specific prescriptions stored within the dispensing device for an identified consumer. 20. The communication network of claim 19, wherein after identification of the consumer, the dispensing computer queries the database to ascertain the storage location of a stored, consumer-specific prescription medication for the identified consumer. 21. The communication network of claim 20, wherein the interface is configured to allow a consumer to select at least one consumer-specific prescription, and the dispensing computer determines the random location in which the selected consumer-specific prescription is stored. 22. The communication network of claim 21, wherein the dispensing computer queries the pharmacy information system to send the most updated electronic record associated with the selected consumer-specific prescription just prior to displaying information about the selected consumer-specific prescription to the consumer. 23. The communication network of claim 15, wherein the storage location database is located within the dispensing computer. 24. The communication network of claim 1, wherein the location of the dispensing computer is selected from the group consisting of: a location within the dispensing apparatus and a location remote from the dispensing apparatus. 25. The communication network of claim 1, wherein the pharmacy information system and the dispensing computer are located on a single node of the network. 26. The communication network of claim 5, wherein the pharmacy information system and pharmacy point of sale system are located on a single node of the network. 27. The communication network of claim 23, wherein the database is located within a device on the network. 28. The communication network of claim 5, wherein the interface engine is located within the dispensing computer. 29. The communication network of claim 28, wherein dispensing computer and the interface engine are located within the storage and delivery device. 30. The communication network of claim 5, wherein the interface engine is located on a device on the network selected from group consisting of: the point of sale system, the pharmacy information system and the dispensing computer. 31. The communication network of claim 5 further comprising a router and a firewall. 32. The communication network of claim 31, wherein the network is configured to allow external access across a virtual private network. 33. The communication network of claim 5, wherein the network comprises a network selected from a group consisting of: an Ethernet network, a virtual private network, a point to point network, a point of sale network, and a controller area network. 34. The communication network of claim 33, wherein the communication network transmits information to the consumer selected from a group consisting of: a prescription price, and a co-pay amount. 35. The communication network of claim 1, further comprising a means for communicating with a consumer located remotely from the dispensing device. 36. The communication network of claim 5, wherein over the counter items are stored within the storage and delivery device, and available for purchase by the consumer. 37. The communication network of claim 5, wherein the sensor comprises an electronic reader, and the dispensing computer communicates with the electronic reader. 38. The communication network of claim 1, wherein the sensable identifier is a barcode, and the sensor is a barcode reader. 39. The communication network of claim 1, wherein the dispensing computer and the pharmacy information system are within the same housing. 40. The communication network of claim 9, wherein storage and delivery device is located such that at least one surface of the housing is in a secured area only accessible to pharmacy personnel and at least one surface of the housing of the storage and delivery device is accessible to consumers. 41. A communication network for use in a purchase transaction for a pharmacy-filled prescription stored in a random storage, random delivery device, where said prescriptions are associated with specific consumers before being placed within the device, comprising: a networkable storage and delivery device comprising a housing: (i) for securely enclosing at least one hundred prescription storage locations, wherein the storage locations are unique in that every stored consumer-specific prescription may be different from every other one; (ii) a user interface; and (iii) a delivery apparatus that can deliver any pharmacy-filled prescription stored at any storage location; a sensor, located within the housing, for sensing a sensable identifier associated with each consumer-specific prescription; wherein each consumer-specific prescription is randomly stored at a non-predesignated storage location, and said dispensing computer receives information about the identity and location of said stored consumer-specific prescription from said sensor which senses said sensable identifier after said consumer-specific prescription is placed at the non-predesignated prescription storage location, to allow the storage and delivery device to associate said consumer-specific prescription to the non-predesignated storage location after said consumer-specific prescription is stored; a pharmacy information system located remotely from the storage and delivery device, which contains a plurality of electronic records created by a pharmacy and associated with a consumer-specific prescription, wherein an electronic record comprises a consumer information element, a prescription information element, and a medication information element; a dispenser computer communicating with the user interface and the delivery apparatus; a retail store point of sale system that communicates with a retail store's financial accounting system; and an interface communicating with the pharmacy information system, retail store point of sale system, and the dispenser computer, which enables the transfer of electronic records from the pharmacy information system to the dispenser computer, each electronic record corresponding to a consumer-specific prescription stored at a unique storage location in the storage and delivery device; wherein the dispenser computer, after a user interacts with the user interface, accesses information taken from a transferred record associated with that user or a third party having a predefined relationship with that user to communicate purchase transaction information to the consumer, and after receiving payment, directs the delivery apparatus to deliver to the user a consumer-specific prescription associated with the transferred record after receiving payment; and wherein the retail store's financial accounting system receives purchase information. 42. The communication network of claim 41, wherein the prescription information element is a prescription number. 43. The communication network of claim 42, wherein the dispenser computer transmits the prescription number to the interface. 44. The communication network of claim 43, wherein the interface transmits the prescription number to the point of sale system. 45. The communication network of claim 41, wherein the dispenser computer receives the purchase price or co-payment amount of the prescription medication from the interface. 46. The communication network of claim 41, wherein the storage and delivery device further comprises a means for receiving payment. 47. The communication network of claim 46, wherein the means for receiving payment is a credit card reader a cash acceptor, or a debit card reader. 48. The communication network of claim 41, wherein the transferred record contains information about a consumer-specific prescription that was filled for and associated with the user interacting with the dispensing device. 49. The communication network of claim 41, wherein the transferred record is directed to a consumer-specific prescription that was filled for a third person for whom the user is authorized to receive the prescription. 50. The communication network of claim 41, wherein the user interface further comprises a touchscreen. 51. The communication network of claim 50, wherein the touchscreen can display a listing of all consumer-specific prescriptions that are available for pick-up by the user, including all consumer-specific prescriptions filled for the user and all prescriptions filled for persons who have authorized the consumer to pickup their consumer-specific prescriptions. 52. The communication network of claim 51, wherein the user requests delivery of all consumer-specific prescriptions stored in the device that the user is approved to receive, and the delivery apparatus delivers all such consumer-specific prescriptions. 53. A communication network for use in a purchase transaction for a pharmacy-filled prescription stored in a random storage, random delivery device, where prescriptions are associated with specific consumers before being placed within the device, comprising: a storage and delivery device comprising a housing for securely enclosing prescription storage locations, a user interface means, and a delivery means, wherein each prescription storage location is capable of storing a different prescription; a sensor, located within the housing, for sensing a sensable identifier associated with each consumer-specific prescription; wherein each consumer-specific prescription is randomly stored at a non-predesignated storage location, and said dispensing computer receives information about the identity and location of said stored consumer-specific prescription from said sensor which senses said sensable identifier after said consumer-specific prescription is placed at the non-predesignated prescription storage location, to allow the storage and delivery device to associate said consumer-specific prescription to the non-predesignated storage location after said consumer-specific prescription is stored; a dispensing computer means for communicating with and controlling the delivery means; a pharmacy information system means, located remotely from the delivery device, for storing a plurality of electronic records, wherein a record is created by a pharmacy and comprises a consumer name, a drug name, and a co-pay amount and is associated with a prescription placed within the device; a point of sale means for recording transactions made at the device; and an interface means for communicating with the dispensing computer means, pharmacy information system means, and the point of sale means, and which enables the transfer of an electronic record from the pharmacy information system means to the dispensing computer means, wherein the dispensing computer means controls the delivery means and uses information obtained from the transferred record to locate and to deliver to the consumer a consumer-specific stored prescription that the consumer is authorized to receive; and wherein the dispensing computer means communicates with the interface means to provide the point of sale means information to account for a purchase transaction. 54. The communication network of claim 1, wherein the identification information further comprises a PIN. 55. The communication network of claim 4, wherein the record further comprises a information selected from a group consisting of a non-child resistant packaging information, a consumer address, a consumer birth date, a consumer phone number, a consumer home phone number, a consumer fax number, a consumer mobile phone number, a consumer pager number, and a consumer email address. 56. The communication network of claim 5, wherein the electronic record further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a drug name, a drug code, a brand name, and a generic name. 57. The communication network of claim 56, wherein the electronic record comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a retail price, a co-pay information, a co-pay amount, a consumer insurance information, and a Medicaid information. 58. The communication network of claim 56, wherein the electronic record further comprises a information selected from a group consisting of: a physician name, and a physician contact information. 59. The communication network of claim 58, wherein the electronic record further comprises a information selected from a group consisting of a non-child resistant packaging information, a consumer address, a consumer birth date, a consumer phone number, a consumer home phone number, a consumer fax number, a consumer mobile phone number, a consumer pager number, and a consumer email address. 60. The communication network of claim 5, wherein the dispensing computer determines that a plurality of consumer-specific prescriptions stored within the dispensing device have been associated with the consumer who has identified himself or herself, and the dispensing computer transmits to the consumer interface the names of the prescriptions on the touchscreen. 61. The communication network of claim 35, wherein the dispensing computer communicates with a remotely located consumer through a communication selected from a group consisting of: an email, a phone call, a page, a text message, and a fax. 62. The communication network of claim 1, wherein the pharmacy information system is updated to indicate that the consumer-specific prescription has been delivered to the consumer. 63. The communication network of claim 5, wherein the interface engine transmits purchase information to the point of sale system. 64. The communication network of claim 41, wherein the consumer information element is the user's name. 65. The communication network of claim 42, wherein the consumer information element further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a consumer name, a physician name, and a physician contact information. 66. The communication network of claim 65, wherein the information element further comprises a refill number, a co-pay information, and a co-pay amount. 67. The communication network of claim 66, wherein the medication information element comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a drug name, a brand name, retail price, and a generic name. 68. The communication network of claim 41, wherein the consumer information element further comprises a consumer name, and one or more information selected from a group consisting of: a consumer birth date, a consumer phone number, physician name, a consumer home phone number, a consumer fax number, a consumer mobile phone number, a consumer pager number, and a consumer's email address. 69. The communication network of claim 68 , wherein the prescription information element comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a refill number, a fill date, a consumer's insurance information, a consumer's Medicaid information, a co pay information, and a co pay amount. 70. The communication network of claim 69 , wherein the medication information element comprises one or more information selected from a group consisting of: a prescription number, a drug name, a drug code, a tax information, a brand name, a generic name, a retail price, a fill cost, a drug cost, a physician information, and a physician contact information. 71. The communication network of claim 70 , wherein the prescription information element further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a prescription number, a refill number, a fill date, a maximum refills, a quantity ordered, a store number, a drug cost, a consumer's insurance information, a consumer's Medicaid information, a co pay information, and a co pay. 72. The communication network of claim 41, wherein the device is capable of storing over the counter items. 73. The communication network of claim 72 , wherein an over the counter item is purchased substantially contemporaneously with a consumer-specific prescription. 74. The communication network of claim 41 further comprising at least 500 storage locations. 75. The communication network of claim 1, wherein substantially all the stored consumer-specific prescriptions are refills. 76. A communication network for use in a purchase transaction in a retail pharmacy using a random storage, random delivery device that stores pharmacy-filled prescriptions, each associated with a particular consumer before being stored, comprising an automated random storage; random delivery device comprising a housing, a dispenser computer, a delivery apparatus, and at least one hundred prescription storage locations, each prescription storage location capable of storing a unique pharmacy-filled prescription, and being accessed by the delivery apparatus upon demand; a sensor, located within the housing, for sensing a sensable identifier associated with each consumer-specific prescription; wherein each consumer-specific prescription is randomly stored at a non-predesignated storage location, and said dispensing computer receives information about the identity and location of said stored consumer-specific prescription from said sensor which senses said sensable identifier after said consumer-specific prescription is placed at the non-predesignated prescription storage location, to allow the storage and delivery device to associate said consumer-specific prescription to the non-predesignated storage location after said consumer-specific prescription is stored; a consumer interface, a pharmacy computer system located remotely from the storage and delivery device, which contains electronic records created by the pharmacy and associated with consumer-specific prescriptions, wherein each record associated with a stored consumer-specific prescription is first created before a consumer-specific prescription is placed at a storage location and comprises a consumer name, a prescription number, and a drug name; an electronic identification associated with a consumer-specific prescription, which electronically links the consumer-specific prescription and the information record; a pharmacy point of sale system; an interface communicating with the pharmacy computer system, the pharmacy point of sale system, and the dispensing computer, the interface enabling the transfer of electronic records from the pharmacy computer system to the dispensing computer, each electronic record corresponding to consumer-specific prescriptions stored at a unique storage location in the storage and delivery device; wherein the user interface accepts identification from the consumer, the dispensing computer provides transaction information to the consumer, the user interface accepts payment from the consumer, the dispensing computer controls the delivery apparatus to deliver to the consumer a consumer-specific prescription that corresponds to the electronic record for that consumer-specific prescription medication, and the interface transmits purchase information to the store point of sale system. 77. The communication network of claim 5, wherein the electronic record further comprises information selected from a group consisting of: a drug name, a drug code, a brand name, and a generic name. 78. The communication network of claim 38, wherein the barcode reader moves to a location proximate to the barcode in order to sense said barcode. 79. The communication network of claim 41, wherein the sensable identifier is a barcode, and the sensor is a barcode reader. 80. The communication network of claim 79, wherein the barcode reader moves to a location proximate to the barcode in order to sense said barcode. 81. The communication network of claim 53, wherein the sensable identifier is a barcode, and the sensor is a barcode reader. 82. The communication network of claim 81, wherein the barcode reader moves to a location proximate to the barcode in order to sense said barcode. 83. The communication network of claim 76 wherein the sensable identifier is a barcode, and the sensor is a barcode reader. 84. The communication network of claim 83, wherein the barcode reader moves to a location proximate to the barcode in order to sense said barcode. 