A robotic system coupled to a racking platform of an oil well service or drilling rig comprising a base coupled to the racking platform at a fixed location, a mast pivotally coupled to the base by a mast pivot joint allowing rotation of the mast about a mast axis, a mast actuator for controllably rotating the mast about the mast pivot joint, an arm coupled to the mast and moveable along a radial direction with respect to the mast axis, an arm actuator for controllably moving the arm along the radial direction, an end effector pivotally coupled to an end of the arm by an end effector pivot joint allowing rotation of the end effector about an end effector axis oriented generally parallel to the mast axis, and an end effector actuator for controllably rotating the end effector about the end effector pivot joint. The end effector comprises at least one grabbing member operable to selectively grab an elongated object under control of a grabbing member actuator.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system coupled to a racking platform of an oil well service or drilling rig, the robotic system comprising: a base coupled to the racking platform at a fixed location; a mast pivotally coupled to the base by a mast pivot joint allowing rotation of the mast about a mast axis; a mast actuator for controllably rotating the mast about the mast pivot joint; an arm coupled to the mast, the arm including proximal and distal ends, wherein the distal end is moveable along a radial direction with respect to the mast axis, and wherein the proximal end is moveable along an axial direction with respect to the mast axis; an arm actuator for controllably moving the arm along the radial direction; an end effector pivotally coupled to the distal end of the arm by an end effector pivot joint allowing rotation of the end effector about an end effector axis oriented at least substantially parallel to the mast axis, the end effector comprising at least one grabbing member operable to selectively grab an elongated object under control of a grabbing member actuator; and an end effector actuator for controllably rotating the end effector about the end effector pivot joint. 2. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the base is coupled to the racking platform by a base pivot joint for allowing rotation of the base about an axis at least substantially perpendicular to the mast axis, the robotic system comprising a base actuator for controllably moving the base between an operational position wherein the mast axis is oriented at least substantially perpendicularly to a plane of the racking platform, and a storage position wherein the mast axis lies at least substantially within the plane of the racking platform. 3. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the arm comprises a plurality of segments pivotally coupled to one another, and wherein a first end of a first segment is connected to the arm actuator, and a first end of a second segment is connected to the mast, such that movement of the first end of the first segment toward the first end of the second segment causes the arm to extend outwardly from the mast along the radial direction. 4. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the end effector comprises two opposed grabbing members each coupled to a housing of the end effector by at least one fixed pivot joint, the grabbing members moveable between a closed position and an open position under control of the grabbing member actuator. 5. The robotic system of claim 4, wherein the fixed pivot joints comprise a plurality of shock absorbing bushings. 6. The robotic system of claim 4, wherein the grabbing member actuator comprises an extendable member, and the opposed grabbing members are coupled to the extendable member by a pair of pivoting links that are positioned opposed to any opening of the grabbing members when the grabbing members are in the closed position. 7. The robotic system of claim 4, wherein each grabbing member comprises a detachable grabbing portion configured to grab a pipe having a predetermined diameter, such that the end effector may be adapted to grab a plurality of pipes having different diameters by providing different detachable grabbing portions. 8. The robotic system of claim 1, comprising a controller for controlling the operation of the mast actuator, the arm actuator, the end effector actuator and the grabbing member actuator, the controller comprising a processor coupled to a memory storing positional information for manipulating pipes into and out of the racking platform. 9. The robotic system of claim 8, comprising a plurality of sensors for providing the controller with information about the orientations of the mast, arm, end effector and at least one gripping member. 10. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein the mast actuator, the arm actuator and the end effector actuator comprise servo motors. 11. The robotic system of claim 10, wherein the grabbing member actuator comprises a stepper motor. 12. The robotic system of claim 1, further comprising a positional information storing system. 13. A mobile apparatus for oil well servicing or drilling, the apparatus comprising: a mobile platform; a derrick pivotally coupled to the mobile platform and moveable between a deployed position and a storage position; a racking platform coupled to the derrick, the racking platform defining a plurality of elongated object receiving locations; an elevator supported from the derrick for raising and lowering elongated members along an elevator axis; and, a robotic system coupled to the racking platform at a fixed location, the robotic system comprising a mechanism having at least three degrees of freedom for manipulating an upper portion of an elongated member within a plane at least substantially parallel to a plane of the racking platform, wherein the robotic system comprises: a mast coupled to the racking platform at the fixed location by a mast pivot joint allowing rotation of the mast about a mast axis oriented at least substantially perpendicularly to the racking platform; an arm coupled to the mast, the arm including proximal and distal ends, wherein the distal end is moveable along a radial direction with respect to the mast axis, and wherein the proximal end is moveable along an axial direction with respect to the mast axis; an arm actuator for controllably moving the arm along the radial direction; an end effector pivotally coupled to the distal end of the arm by an end effector pivot joint allowing rotation of the end effector about an end effector axis oriented at least substantially parallel to the mast axis, the end effector comprising at least one grabbing member operable to selectively grab an elongated object under control of a grabbing member actuator; and an end effector actuator for controllably rotating the end effector about the end effector pivot joint. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the racking platform is pivotally coupled to the derrick, and wherein the robotic system is pivotally coupled to the racking platform at the fixed location, such that the racking platform and the robotic system are moveable into at least substantially parallel orientations with respect to the derrick when the derrick is in the storage position. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the racking platform comprises: a frame; a plurality of finger members mounted on the frame, wherein a pair of adjacent finger members defines an elongated object receiving path therebetween, and wherein a first one of the pair of adjacent finger members comprises a plurality of arcuate indentations defining the elongated object receiving locations along an edge thereof; and a plurality of toggle locks mounted on pivot joints on a second one of the pair of adjacent finger members, the toggle locks coupled in complementary pairs biased into a predetermined angular relationship with one another such that when one of the toggle locks of a complementary pair is pivoted out of the elongated object receiving path the other of the toggle locks in the complementary pair is urged into the elongated object receiving path, wherein a last complementary pair of toggle locks comprises a biasing mechanism configured to bias a last toggle lock closest to the frame into the elongated object receiving path. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the elevator comprises: an elongated object coupler for selectively engaging an upper portion of an elongated object, the elongated object coupler moveable between an open position and a closed position; an elongated object coupler actuator for moving the elongated object coupler between the open position and the closed position; and an elongated object coupler sensor for producing an indication of whether the elongated object coupler is in the open position or the closed position. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the elevator comprises: a locking mechanism for selectively locking the elongated object coupler in the closed position, the locking mechanism moveable between a locked position and an unlocked position; a locking mechanism actuator for moving the locking mechanism between the locked position and the unlocked position; and a locking mechanism sensor for producing an indication of whether the locking mechanism is in the open position or the closed position. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the elevator comprises an elongated object presence sensor for producing an indication of whether the upper portion of an elongated object is engaged by the elongated object coupler. 19. A method of removing an elongated object from an oil well, the method comprising: providing an apparatus according to claim 13; raising the elongated object along the elevator axis with the elevator; grabbing an upper portion of the elongated object with the robotic system while the elongated object is located along the elevator axis; allowing a bottom portion of the elongated object to be moved over a tray located below the racking platform; lowering the elevator such that a bottom end of the elongated object rests on the tray at a location corresponding to a selected one of the elongated object receiving locations defined by the racking platform; and moving the upper portion of the elongated object to the selected one of the elongated object receiving locations defined by the racking platform. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein allowing the bottom portion of the elongated object to be moved comprises allowing the robotic system to be moved by torque exerted thereon due to movement of the bottom portion of the elongated object, or detecting torque exerted on the robotic system due to movement of the bottom portion of the elongated object and assisting the movement of the bottom portion of the elongated object by moving the robotic system to reduce the torque exerted thereon, or both. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein moving the upper portion of the elongated object to the selected one of the elongated object receiving locations comprises returning the robotic system to a home position and then moving the robotic system along a predetermined path from the home position to the selected one of the elongated object receiving locations. 