An expandable storage library for storing digital storage media, such as storage tapes or disks is provided. The library includes a base unit and robotic system to which additional expansion units may be added. Several expansion units may be installed in the library with the base unit so that the robotic system can access media storage racks in any of the expansion units or in the base unit. Doors on the base unit and expansion unit may be interlocked together to function as a single door. A Z pole guide on the base unit may be extended by adding expansion guide poles that guide the movement of the robotic system through the library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of expanding a storage media library, the library including an enclosure, at least one media drive, a media rack, a robotic system for picking and placing a plurality of storage media in the media rack, and a processor for controlling the robotic system that records storage locations of the storage media in the media rack for subsequent retrieval, the method comprising: removing a floor panel of the enclosure from a plurality of fixed supporting flanges provided on the enclosure by sliding the floor panel on the flanges; assembling a module including a supplemental media rack to the fixed supporting structure on the enclosure at the location from which the panel of the enclosure was removed, reassembling the floor panel to a floor opening on the opposite side of the module that is assembled to the enclosure, wherein the floor opening is provided with replication flanges, wherein the floor panel is reassembled to the floor opening by sliding the floor panel on the replication flanges; and updating the processor to make available location data relating to the supplemental media rack. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the robotic system and processor have the capacity to service the media rack and a predetermined number of supplemental media racks. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising a digital message provided in association with the module that is readable by the processor to identify the module to the processor. 4. A method of expanding a storage media library, the library including an enclosure, at least one media drive, a media rack, a robotic system for picking and placing a plurality of storage media in the media rack, and a processor for controlling the robotic system that records storage locations of the storage media in the media rack for subsequent retrieval, the method comprising: removing a panel of the enclosure from a fixed supporting structure provided on the enclosure; assembling a module including a supplemental media rack to the fixed supporting structure on the enclosure at the location from which the panel of the enclosure was removed; reassembling the panel to an open side of the module on the opposite side of the module from the side of the module that is assembled to the enclosure; and updating the processor to make available location data relating to the supplemental media rack. 5. A method of expanding a storage media library, the library including an enclosure, at least one media drive, a media rack, a robotic system for picking and placing a plurality of storage media in the media rack, and a processor for controlling the robotic system that records storage locations of the storage media in the media rack for subsequent retrieval, the method comprising: removing a panel of the enclosure from a fixed supporting structure provided on the enclosure; assembling a module including a supplemental media rack to the fixed supporting structure on the enclosure at the location from which the panel of the enclosure was removed; providing a door with a first engagement feature on the enclosure; providing a supplemental door with a second engagement feature on the module; assembling the supplemental door to the door on the enclosure by engaging the first and second engagement features to join the supplemental door to the door; and updating the processor to make available location data relating to the supplemental media rack. 