A hair transplantation method and apparatus utilizes a robot, which includes a robotic arm, having a hair follicle effector associated with the robotic arm.
Claims What is claimed: .[.1. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting at least one hair follicle from a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle plug cutting device associated with the first end of the robotic arm, the robotic arm being adjustably maneuverable so that the plug cutting device is capable of being selectably placed proximate the patient's scalp; and the plug cutting device being operated using a substantially automated process to harvest the at least one hair follicle..]. .[.2. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the robotic arm is moved to place the plug cutting device proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.3. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration is a flap that has been removed from the patient's scalp..]. .[.4. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.5. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.6. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.7. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 6, wherein the video system is used for mapping locations of existing hair follicles on the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.8. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 7, wherein the video system is used to determine an angular disposition of the at least one hair follicle with respect to the patient's scalp..]. .[.9. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 6, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.10. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.11. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.12. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.13. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a location and three-dimensional spacing of the at least one hair follicle to be harvested..]. .[.14. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 13, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration is used to move the robotic arm and place the plug cutting device proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.15. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 13, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.16. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 1, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated to harvest a follicular unit..]. .[.17. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 16, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.18. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 16, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. 19. A hair transplantation apparatus for implanting .[.at least one.]. hair .[.follicle into a portion of a patient's scalp.]. .Iadd.follicles.Iaddend., comprising: a robot, including .[.at least one.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.robotic arm .[.having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp.].; .Iadd.and .Iaddend. a hair follicle introducer .[.associated with the first end of.]. .Iadd.carried by .Iaddend.the robotic arm, the robotic arm being adjustably maneuverable .Iadd.and directed by an imaging system, the imaging system being configured to create an image that allows 1) recognizing a hair graft and 2) identifying a hair implantation location that does not have the hair graft, and .Iaddend. .[.so that.]. .Iadd.direct the robot to selectively place .Iaddend.the hair follicle introducer .[.is capable of being selectably placed.]. proximate .[.the patient's scalp; and.]. .Iadd.the hair implantation location identified with use of the imaging system, and wherein .Iaddend.the hair follicle introducer is .Iadd.configured to be .Iaddend.loaded with .[.the.]. at least one hair follicle and then operated using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one hair follicle. 20. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the at least one hair follicle is loaded into the hair follicle introducer using a substantially automated process. 21. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the .[.robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the robotic arm is moved to place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process.]. .Iadd.imaging system comprises a computer.Iaddend.. 22. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the .[.robot is a stereotactic robot.]. .Iadd.imaging system comprises a camera.Iaddend.. .[.23. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 22, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. 24. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, .[.further comprising.]. .Iadd.wherein the imaging system is .Iaddend.a video system that includes a camera .[.and a monitor.]..Iadd., and is configured .Iaddend.for displaying an image of .[.the portion of patient's scalp under consideration.]. .Iadd.a location of one or more existing hair follicles and/or a recipient space.Iaddend.. 25. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 24, wherein the video system is used for planning a desired location for .[.the.]. at least one hair follicle to be implanted .[.in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration.].. 26. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 25, wherein, in planning the desired location for the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to calculate a distance between a plurality of hair follicles to be implanted .[.in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration.].. 27. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 25, wherein, in planning the desired location for the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to .[.plan.]. .Iadd.generate .Iaddend.a random distribution of a plurality of hair follicles .Iadd.to be implanted.Iaddend.. 28. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 24, wherein the video system is used to determine an angular disposition of .[.the.]. at least one hair follicle .[.with respect to the patient's scalp.]. .Iadd.to be implanted.Iaddend.. 29. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 24, wherein the video system is .[.used.]. .Iadd.configured .Iaddend.to create a .[.virtual.]. .Iadd.real time .Iaddend.image of the .[.portion of the patient's scalp under consideration.]. .Iadd.location of one or more existing hair follicles and/or hair implantation location.Iaddend.. 30. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.29.]..Iadd.24.Iaddend., wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and .[.the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.virtual image is created by scanning .[.the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras. 31. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.29.]..Iadd.24.Iaddend., wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and .[.the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.virtual image is created by scanning .[.the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder. 32. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.29.]..Iadd.24.Iaddend., wherein .[.the video system includes at least one camera, and the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the .[.at least one.]. camera at different perspectives. 33. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.29.]..Iadd.24.Iaddend., wherein the .[.virtual.]. image .[.of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration.]. includes a three-dimensional spacing of .[.a.]. .Iadd.the hair implantation .Iaddend.location .[.the at least one hair follicle is to be implanted.].. .[.34. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 33, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration is used to move the robotic arm and place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. 35. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 29, wherein the video system is .[.used.]. .Iadd.configured .Iaddend.to simultaneously display .[.the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.virtual image and .[.a.]. .Iadd.the .Iaddend.real-time image .[.of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration.].. .[.36. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 19, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. 37. .[.A.]. .Iadd.The .Iaddend.hair transplantation apparatus .Iadd.of claim 19, wherein.Iaddend. .[.for implanting at least one hair follicle into a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle introducer associated with the first end of the robotic arm,.]. the robot .[.being.]. .Iadd.is .Iaddend.capable of registering a position of the introducer with at least a portion of .[.the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.patient's scalp .[.under consideration.]. so that the position of the introducer is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the portion of the patient's scalp .[.under consideration, and the robotic arm is moved to place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process; and the hair follicle introducer is loaded with the at least one hair follicle and then operated using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one hair follicle.].. .[.38. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one hair follicle is loaded into the hair follicle introducer using a substantially automated process..]. .[.39. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.40. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 39, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.41. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.42. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 41, wherein the video system is used for planning a desired location for the at least one hair follicle to be implanted in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.43. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 42, wherein, in planning the desired location of the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to calculate a distance between a plurality of hair follicles to be implanted in the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.44. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 42, wherein, in planning the desired location of the at least one hair follicle, the video system is used to plan a random distribution of a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.45. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 41, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.46. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.47. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.48. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.49. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional spacing of a location the at least one hair follicle is to be implanted..]. .[.50. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 45, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.51. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 37, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. .[.52. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting at least one hair follicle from a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; a hair follicle plug cutting device associated with the first end of the robotic arm, the robot being capable of registering a position of the plug cutting device with at least a portion of the patient's scalp under consideration so that the position of the plug cutting device is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration, and the robotic arm is moved to place the plug cutting device proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process; and the plug cutting device being operated using a substantially automated process to harvest the at least one hair follicle..]. .[.53. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, wherein the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration is a flap that has been removed from the patient's scalp..]. .[.54. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.55. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 54, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.56. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.57. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 56, wherein the video system is used for mapping locations of existing hair follicles on the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.58. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 57, wherein the video system is used to determine the angular disposition of the at least one hair follicle with respect to the patient's scalp..]. .[.59. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 56, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.60. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.61. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.62. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.63. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a location and three-dimensional spacing of the at least one hair follicle to be harvested..]. .[.64. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 59, wherein the video system is used to simultaneously display the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.65. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 52, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated to harvest a follicular unit..]. .[.66. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 65, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.67. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 65, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. 68. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting .[.at least one hair follicle.]. and implanting .[.the at least one.]. hair follicle.Iadd.s .Iaddend.from/into .[.a portion of a patient's scalp.]. .Iadd.respective harvesting and implantation locations, .Iaddend.comprising: a robot, including .[.at least one.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.robotic arm .[.having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp.].; an instrument holder associated with .[.the first end of.]. the robotic arm; a hair plug cutting device associated with the instrument holder, the .[.robot.]. .Iadd.robotic arm .Iaddend.being adjustably maneuverable .[.so that.]. .Iadd.and directed by an imaging system, the imaging system being configured to create an image including at least one hair follicle recognizable in the image, allow identifying a location of the at least one hair follicle and to direct the robotic arm based on the hair follicle location identified with use of the imaging system to selectively place .Iaddend.the .Iadd.hair .Iaddend.plug cutting device .[.is capable of being selectably placed.]. proximate .[.the patient's scalp;.]. .Iadd.the identified hair follicle location, .Iaddend.the .Iadd.hair .Iaddend.plug cutting device being .[.operated.]. .Iadd.operable .Iaddend.using a substantially automated process to harvest the at least one hair follicle from .[.a first.]. .Iadd.the identified hair follicle .Iaddend.location .[.of the patient's scalp.].; .Iadd.and .Iaddend. a hair follicle introducer associated with the instrument holder, the .[.robot.]. .Iadd.robotic arm .Iaddend.being adjustably maneuverable so that the introducer is capable of being .[.selectably.]. .Iadd.selectively .Iaddend.placed proximate the .[.patient's scalp;.]. .Iadd.an implantation location, .Iaddend.and the hair follicle introducer being .[.operated.]. .Iadd.operable .Iaddend.using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one .Iadd.harvested .Iaddend.hair follicle into .[.a second.]. .Iadd.the implantation .Iaddend.location .[.of the patient's scalp.].. 69. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the plug cutting device and the hair follicle introducer are the same device. 70. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein .[.the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and.]. the robotic arm is moved to place .[.the plug cutting device and.]. the introducer proximate the .[.patient's scalp using a substantially automated process.]. .Iadd.implantation location under control of a computer program.Iaddend.. .[.71. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.72. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 71, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. 73. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, .[.further comprising.]. .Iadd.wherein the imaging system comprises .Iaddend.a video system that includes a camera .[.and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration.].. 74. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 73, wherein the video system is .[.used for mapping the first location of the patient's scalp.]. .Iadd.configured to display an image of the identified hair follicle location and/or the implantation location.Iaddend.. .[.75. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 74, wherein the video system is used to determine the angular disposition of the at least one hair follicle with respect to the patient's scalp..]. 76. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 73, wherein the video system is used for planning the .[.second.]. .Iadd.implantation .Iaddend.location .[.of the patient's scalp.].. 77. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 76, wherein, in planning the .[.second.]. .Iadd.implantation .Iaddend.location, the video system is used to calculate a distance between the .[.second.]. .Iadd.implantation .Iaddend.location and a plurality of additional locations .Iadd.in which .Iaddend.hair follicles are to be implanted .[.in the patient's scalp.].. .[.78. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 73, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.79. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.80. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.81. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.82. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the first location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.83. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 82, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the first location is used to move the robotic arm and place the plug cutting device proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. .[.84. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 78, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.85. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 84, wherein the robot is at least a partially automated robot, and the virtual image of the second location is used to move the robotic arm and place the introducer proximate the patient's scalp using a substantially automated process..]. 86. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim .[.78.]. .Iadd.68.Iaddend., wherein the .[.video.]. .Iadd.imaging .Iaddend.system is .[.used.]. .Iadd.configured .Iaddend.to .[.simultaneously.]. display .[.the virtual image and.]. a real-time image of .[.the portion of the.]. .Iadd.a .Iaddend.patient's scalp under consideration. .[.87. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. .[.88. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 68, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated to harvest a follicular unit..]. .[.89. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 88, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.90. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 88, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. .[.91. A hair transplantation apparatus for harvesting at least one hair follicle and implanting the at least one hair follicle from/into a portion of a patient's scalp comprising: a robot, including at least one robotic arm having a first end adapted to be disposed adjacent the patient's scalp; an instrument holder associated with the first end of the robotic arm; a hair follicle plug cutting device associated with the instrument holder, the robot being capable of registering a position of the plug cutting device with a first location of the patient's scalp so that the position of the plug cutting device is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the first location, and the robotic arm is moved to place the plug cutting device proximate the first location using a substantially automated process; the plug cutting device being operated using a substantially automated process to harvest the at least one hair follicle; a hair follicle introducer associated with the instrument holder, the robot being capable of registering a position of the introducer with a second location of the patient's scalp so that the position of the introducer is known in three-dimensional space with respect to the second location, and the robotic arm is moved to place the introducer proximate the second location using a substantially automated process; and the hair follicle introducer is loaded with the at least one hair follicle and then operated using a substantially automated process to implant the at least one hair follicle..]. .[.92. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the plug cutting device and the hair follicle introducer are the same device..]. .[.93. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the robot is a stereotactic robot..]. .[.94. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 93, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks strategically positioned in relation to the stereotactic robot so that the position of the robotic arm is known in relation to the patient's scalp..]. .[.95. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, further comprising a video system that includes a camera and a monitor for displaying an image of the portion of patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.96. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 95, wherein the video system is used for mapping the first location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.97. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 95, wherein the video system is used for planning the second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.98. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 95, wherein the video system is used to create a virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.99. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system includes a stereo pair of video cameras, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the stereo pair of video cameras..]. .[.100. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system includes a video camera and a range finder, and the virtual image is created by scanning the patient's scalp using the video camera and the range finder..]. .[.101. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system includes at least one camera, and the virtual image is acquired from a series of still images taken by the at least one camera at different perspectives..]. .[.102. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the first location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.103. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the virtual image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration includes a three-dimensional image of the second location of the patient's scalp..]. .[.104. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 98, wherein the video system simultaneously displays the virtual image and a real-time image of the portion of the patient's scalp under consideration..]. .[.105. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the at least one hair follicle is loaded into the hair follicle introducer using a substantially automated process..]. .[.106. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the at least one hair follicle is implanted in the patient's scalp at a predetermined depth, and the robot determines when the predetermined depth is attained using the substantially automated process..]. .[.107. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 91, wherein the hair follicle plug cutting device is operated to harvest a follicular unit..]. .[.108. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 107, wherein the follicular unit includes a single hair follicle..]. .[.109. The hair transplantation apparatus of claim 107, wherein the follicular unit includes a plurality of hair follicles..]. .Iadd.110. A hair implantation apparatus, comprising: a robot; a hair follicle insertion device carried by the robot and configured to be operated using a substantially automated process to implant one or more hair grafts; and an imaging system configured to create an image that allows recognizing a hair graft and identifying a hair implantation location that does not have the hair graft, and to direct the robot to selectively position the hair follicle insertion device proximate the hair implantation location identified with use of the imaging system..Iaddend. .Iadd.111. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the robot is computer-controlled..Iaddend. .Iadd.112. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein operation of the hair follicle insertion device is computer-controlled..Iaddend. .Iadd.113. The apparatus of claim 110, further comprising a plurality of fiducial marks..Iaddend. .Iadd.114. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system is configured to provide a 3D image of one or more existing hair follicles..Iaddend. .Iadd.115. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system is configured to allow identifying a location of one or more hair follicles and calculating three-dimensional coordinates of the one or more hair follicles..Iaddend. .Iadd.116. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the hair follicle insertion device comprises a scalpel..Iaddend. .Iadd.117. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the hair follicle insertion device comprises at least one needle..Iaddend. .Iadd.118. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system is configured to allow planning the hair implantation location..Iaddend. .Iadd.119. The apparatus of claim 118, wherein the location planning is at least partially computerized..Iaddend. .Iadd.120. The apparatus of claim 118, wherein the location planning comprises plotting individual implantation sites according to one or more of selected degrees of randomness or an angle of insertion..Iaddend. .Iadd.121. The apparatus of claim 110, further comprising a hair harvesting tool maneuverable by a robot to harvest hair grafts..Iaddend. .Iadd.122. The apparatus of claim 121, wherein the hair harvesting tool and the hair follicle insertion device are the same device..Iaddend. .Iadd.123. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the apparatus is further configured to perform one or more of mapping locations of existing hair follicles, determining an angular disposition of existing hair follicles, or determining an angular disposition of at least one hair graft to be implanted..Iaddend. .Iadd.124. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system comprises a computer..Iaddend. .Iadd.125. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system is a video imaging system comprising a camera..Iaddend. .Iadd.126. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system comprises a display, the imaging system being configured to display an image simulating a post-operative appearance of a recipient space..Iaddend. .Iadd.127. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system simultaneously displays a virtual image and a real-time image of the hair implantation location..Iaddend. .Iadd.128. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system is configured to create a real time image of a location of one or more existing hair follicles and/or the hair implantation location and to direct the robot to implant the one or more hair grafts based on the real time image..Iaddend. .Iadd.129. A hair implantation apparatus, comprising: a robot directed by an imaging system, the imaging system being configured to allow planning an implantation location for one or more hair grafts to be implanted, wherein the location planning comprises plotting individual hair implantation sites according to selected degrees of randomness; and a hair follicle insertion device carried and maneuverable by the robot to be selectively positioned proximate the hair implantation location and configured to be operated using a substantially automated process to implant the one or more hair grafts into the hair implantation location..Iaddend. .Iadd.130. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system is configured to determine spacing between the one or more hair grafts..Iaddend. .Iadd.131. The apparatus of claim 110, wherein the imaging system is configured to scan a bald area and/or one or more existing hair follicles..Iaddend. 