In a preferred embodiment of the invention, a closure for a container comprises at least two closure members. The relative position of the closure members with respect to each other is altered upon mating of the closure and container. The alteration of the relative position of the closure members may result in one or more of the members approaching the container more closely. The alteration may result in one or more of the members pressing against the container. The pressing may take place in such a way that exit paths for vapor from fluid in the container would require passage through the pressed surfaces.
Claims I claim: 1. A method for storing one or more fluid samples, the method comprising: storing one or more fluid samples in one or more reservoirs of a container, the container including a first sidewall and a second sidewall, the second sidewall surrounding the first sidewall, the first sidewall surrounding the one or more reservoirs; covering the container with a closure, the closure including a first closure component and a second closure component, the first closure component including a first top component, a first side component and a first elastic component attached to the first side component, the second closure component including a second top component, a second side component and a second elastic component attached to the second side component, the first top component and the second top component being in different positions; and keeping the container covered with the closure for a period of time; wherein the process for covering the container with a closure includes changing a position of the first side component with respect to the second side component; wherein the process for keeping the container covered with the closure for a period of time includes: pressing the first side component in a first direction against at least a first part of the first sidewall by at least the first elastic component attached to the first side component, the first side component being in direct contact with at least the first part of the first sidewall; and pressing the second side component in a second direction against at least a second part of the second sidewall by at least the second elastic component attached to the second side component, the second side component being in direct contact with at least the second part of the second sidewall. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the process for covering the container with a closure includes placing the first top component between the one or more reservoirs and the second top component. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the process for storing one or more fluid samples in one or more reservoirs of a container comprises using the container including the first sidewall and the second sidewall, the first sidewall and the second sidewall being concentric. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the first direction and the second direction are at least 90 degrees apart. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the first direction and the second direction are approximately opposite to each other. 6. A method for storing one or more fluid samples, the method comprising: storing one or more fluid samples in one or more reservoirs of a container, the container including a first sidewall and a second sidewall; covering the container with a closure, the closure including a first closure component and a second closure component, the first closure component including a first top component, a first side component and a first elastic component attached to the first side component, the second closure component including a second top component, a second side component and a second elastic component attached to the second side component, the first top component and the second top component being in different positions; and keeping the container covered with the closure for a period of time; wherein the process for keeping the container covered with the closure for a period of time includes allowing at least an exchange of vapor between the inside of the container and the outside of the container, the container being covered by the closure; wherein the process for covering the container with a closure includes changing a position of the first side component with respect to the second side component. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the process for covering the container with a closure includes placing the first top component between the one or more reservoirs and the second top component. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the process for storing one or more fluid samples in one or more reservoirs of a container comprises: surrounding the one or more fluid samples by the first sidewall; and surrounding the one or more fluid samples by the second sidewall, the second sidewall surrounding the first sidewall. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the process for storing one or more fluid samples in one or more reservoirs of a container further comprises using the container including the first sidewall and the second sidewall, the first sidewall and the second sidewall being concentric. 