A page-width printhead assembly includes an elongate casing defining a channel. An elongate printhead module is located within the channel and is configured to eject ink upon passing print media. The printhead module includes a plurality of serially arranged printhead tiles upon which respective ink ejection integrated circuits are mounted. Each printhead tile has a stepped region and the integrated circuits overlap in said stepped region.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A page-width printhead assembly comprising: an elongate casing defining a channel; and an elongate printhead module located within the channel and configured to eject ink upon passing print media, the printhead module including an elongate fluid channel member commonly supporting a plurality of serially arranged printhead tiles upon which respective ink ejection integrated circuits are mounted, each printhead tile having a stepped region so that the integrated circuits overlap in said stepped region. 2. A page-width printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the integrated circuits are oriented obliquely with respect to the printhead module and are parallel. 3. A page-width printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fluid channel member defines a plurality of spaced apart groups of outlets with each group delivering ink to a respective tile. 4. A page-width printhead assembly as claimed in claim 3, wherein the fluid channel member defines a plurality of ducts from which the outlets extend and the outlets in each group form a straight line. 5. A page-width printhead assembly as claimed in claim 3, wherein the fluid channel member further includes a pair of longitudinally extending tabs along the sides thereof for securing the printhead module to the channel of the casing. 6. A page-width printhead assembly as claimed in claim 3, wherein an adhesive attaches the printhead tiles to the fluid channel member. 7. A page-width printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, in which a power supply with drive electronics is housed within the casing, and flexible PCBs provide electrical connection between the power supply and the printhead integrated circuits. 8. A page-width printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein each ink ejection integrated circuit includes a micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) of nozzles including thermo-actuators which cause the nozzles to eject ink droplets. 