A method, system, and apparatus for transfer of dies using a die plate having die cavities is described herein. The die plate has a planar body. The body has a plurality of cells or cavities which are open at the first surface of the body. Each cell has a hole extending from the bottom surface of the cell to a second surface of the body. A wafer or support structure can be positioned to be closely adjacent to each other. A suction can be applied to the second surface of the die plate so that a plurality of dies can be transferred into a plurality of cells of the die plate. The dies can subsequently be transferred from the die plate having die cavities to one or more destination substrates or surfaces, by a punching mechanism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for simultaneously transferring a plurality of integrated circuit dies that are attached to a support structure to a die receptacle structure having a plurality of cells, each cell open at a first surface of the die receptacle structure, comprising: (a) positioning the support structure and die receptacle structure to be closely adjacent to each other such that each die of the plurality of integrated circuit dies attached to the support structure is simultaneously aligned with a corresponding cell of the plurality of cells; (b) simultaneously positioning each aligned die of the plurality of integrated circuit dies attached to the support structure within the corresponding cell of the plurality of cells, wherein a bottom interior surface of each cell has an adhesive material; and (c) simultaneously releasing the plurality of aligned integrated circuit dies from the support structure so that each die resides inside the corresponding cell of the plurality of cells and moving apart the support structure and die receptacle structure; (d) applying a suction at a second surface of the die receptacle structure so that at least a partial vacuum exists in each cell of the plurality of cells due to a hole in the second surface of the die receptacle structure corresponding to each cell and applying a positive pressure at a first surface of the support structure, wherein portions of the die receptacle structure around cells are substantially sharp, wherein step (d) comprises: allowing the applied suction and the positive pressure to cause the sharp portions of the die receptacle structure to cut the support structure around each die of the plurality of dies, such that each die of the plurality of aligned dies is separated from the support structure and is transferred into the corresponding cell of the plurality of cells by the applied suction. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said moving step comprises: moving apart the support structure and die receptacle structure so that each die remains in the corresponding cell due to the adhesive material overcoming an adhesiveness of the support structure. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the support structure is a tape structure, wherein said moving step comprises: peeling the support structure from the die receptacle structure. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein a first surface of each die is attached to the support structure, further comprising: (e) prior to step (a), applying an adhesive material to a second surface of each die of the plurality of dies. 5. The method of claim 1, comprising peeling the support structure from the die receptacle structure. 6. A method for transferring a plurality of integrated circuit dies that are attached to a support structure to a die receptacle structure having a plurality of cells, each cell open at a first surface of the die receptacle structure, comprising: (a) positioning the support structure and die receptacle structure to be closely adjacent to each other such that each die of a plurality of dies attached to the support structure is positioned inside a corresponding cell of the plurality of cells, wherein a bottom interior surface of each cell has an adhesive material; (b) releasing each die of the plurality of dies from the support structure so that each die resides inside the corresponding cell of the plurality of cells, wherein releasing each die of the plurality of dies includes: moving apart the support structure and die receptacle structure; applying a suction at a second surface of the die receptacle structure so that at least a partial vacuum exists in each cell of the plurality of cells due to a hole in the second surface corresponding to each cell; and (c) applying a positive pressure at a first surface of the support structure, wherein portions of the die receptacle structure around cells are substantially sharp, wherein step (d) comprises: allowing the applied suction and the positive pressure to cause the sharp portions of the die receptacle structure to cut the support structure around each die of the plurality of dies, such that each die of the plurality of dies is separated from the support structure and is transferred into the corresponding cell of the plurality of cells by the applied suction. 