A motion tracking sensor apparatus configured for real-time, three-dimensional angular motion tracking that can determine the absolute orientation, axis of rotation and angular speed of a body rotating about a point, which is fixed relative to the sensor, without contacting the rotating body. The sensor obtains measurements of the three-dimensional magnetic field of a dipole fixed on the body. In one embodiment, a permanent magnet is embedded in the center of the rotating body, and the time-varying magnetic field is measured as the magnet rotates, and then the instantaneous magnet orientation from the field data is determined. The apparatus is particularly suited for use with devices that are based on a sphere rotating in a cradle such as spherical motors or spherical variable transmissions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A motion tracking apparatus, comprising: a sensor; and means for determining an angular velocity vector for an object in real time; wherein said object is configured for spherical motion; wherein said sensor is not in contact with said object; wherein said sensor takes a single flux density measurement, in three dimensions, of said object; and wherein components of said angular velocity vector are determined from said single flux density measurement. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a magnet coupled to said object; wherein said sensor comprises a tri-axial fluxgate magnetometer. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said apparatus is configured for use in biomedical applications. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said apparatus is configured for use in virtual reality and game applications. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said apparatus is configured for use in military aircraft applications. 6. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said apparatus is configured for use in robotic applications. 7. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said sensor is operable in harsh or demanding physical environments. 8. An apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said apparatus is configured for tracking continuous motion in real time. 