An ink delivery assembly feeds ink from an ink supply unit to an inkjet printhead. The assembly includes an elongate channel member that defines a plurality of longitudinally arranged parallel channels through which ink from the ink supply unit can be transported. A plurality of spaced apart sets of outlets is serially arranged along the channel member. Ink can be provided through the sets of outlets to the printhead. Each outlet of each set is in fluid communication with a respective one of the channels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ink delivery assembly for delivering ink from an ink supply unit to an inkjet printhead, the ink delivery assembly comprising: an elongate fluid channel member defining a plurality of longitudinally arranged parallel channels, the elongate fluid channel member made up of a plurality of interconnected fluid channel modules; and a plurality of spaced apart sets of outlets serially arranged along the elongate fluid channel member through which ink is provided to the printhead, each outlet of each set being in fluid communication with a respective one of the parallel channels. 2. An ink delivery assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein a lid portion is positioned on the channel member, and the lid and the channels together define ducts. 3. An ink delivery assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein the lid portion defines a series of ribs that correspond with respective channels and are receivable in said respective channels. 4. An ink delivery assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein the sets of outlets are located on a common flat face of the channel member with the outlets of each set being arranged obliquely with respect to the channel member. 5. The ink delivery assembly as claimed in claim 2, wherein the outlets are provided on the lid portion. 6. An ink delivery assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sets are uniformly spaced apart by a common distance. 7. An ink delivery assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the channel member defines a plurality of ink inlets which are located at one of its ends and which are in fluid communication with respective ducts. 8. An ink delivery assembly as claimed in claim 7, wherein each end of the channel member defines a mating formation engageable with a complementary formation of an ink delivery connector. 9. The ink delivery assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of interconnected fluid channel modules are connected end-to-end to form the elongate fluid channel member. 10. The ink delivery assembly as claimed in claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of interconnected fluid channel modules has a female end portion and a male end portion. 11. The ink delivery assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein each of the outlets is provided at a normal to the longitudinally arranged parallel channels. 12. An ink delivery assembly for delivering ink from an ink supply unit to an inkjet printhead, the ink delivery assembly comprising: an elongate fluid channel member defining a plurality of longitudinally arranged parallel channels, the elongate fluid channel member made up of a plurality of distinct fluid channel modules interconnected end-to-end in a modular manner along a length of the elongate fluid channel member; and a plurality of spaced apart sets of outlets serially arranged on each distinct fluid channel module through which ink is provided to the printhead, each outlet of each set being in fluid communication with a respective one of the parallel channels. 