A neck for a welding torch includes a rigid, non-tubular, elongated member having opposite first and second ends. The first end is connectable to a rear portion of the welding torch. The second end is connectable to a welding tip portion of the welding torch. The member locates and holds the welding tip portion in a precisely given location, and does not communicate welding power, welding wire, shielding gas, or cooling water between the first and second ends.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A neck for a welding torch that also includes a torch tip portion and torch main body portion that supplies welding power, welding wire, shielding gas and/or cooling water, said neck comprising: a rigid, non-tubular, elongated member having opposite first and second ends; said first end being connectable to the torch main body portion; said second end being connectable to the torch tip portion; said rigid, non-tubular member extending completely between the torch main body portion and the torch tip portion; wherein said member locates and holds said torch tip portion in a precisely given location, and welding power, welding wire, shielding gas, and/or cooling water are communicated adjacent said member between said torch main body portion and said torch tip portion. 2. The neck of claim 1, wherein said member includes: at least one web; and at least one flange connected to and disposed generally perpendicular to said web. 3. The neck of claim 2, wherein said member has one web and two flanges that generally define an I-beam shape. 4. The neck of claim 2, wherein said member has one web and two flanges that generally define a C-beam shape. 5. The neck of claim 2, wherein said member has one web and one flange that generally define a T-beam shape. 6. The neck of claim 2, wherein said web and said flange are elongated and generally have the same length. 7. The neck of claim 1, wherein said member includes a bend. 8. The neck of claim 1, wherein said member is manufactured by a precision computer numerical controlled machining process. 9. The neck of claim 1, wherein said precisely given location is a tool center point of the welding torch. 10. The neck of claim 1, wherein a mounting arm is connectable to said neck for mounting the welding torch on a robot. 11. A welding torch mountable on a robot, said welding torch comprising: a torch main body portion that supplies welding power, welding wire, shielding gas and/or cooling water; a torch tip portion; and a neck having first and second opposite ends, said neck extending completely between said torch main body portion at said first end and said torch tip portion at said second end; said neck being a rigid, non-tubular, elongated member; wherein said neck locates and holds said torch tip portion at a tool center point of said welding torch, and welding power, welding wire, shielding gas, and/or cooling water are communicated adjacent said neck between said torch main body portion and said torch tip portion. 12. The welding torch of claim 11, wherein said neck includes: at least one web; and at least one flange connected to and disposed generally perpendicular to said web. 13. The welding torch of claim 12, wherein said neck has one web and two flanges that generally define an I-beam shape. 14. The welding torch of claim 12, wherein said neck has one web and two flanges that generally define a C-beam shape. 15. The welding torch of claim 12, wherein said neck has one web and one flange that generally define a T-beam shape. 16. The welding torch of claim 12, wherein said web and said flange are elongated and generally have the same length. 17. The welding torch of claim 11, wherein said neck includes a bend. 18. The welding torch of claim 11, wherein said neck is manufactured by a precision computer numerical controlled machining process. 19. The welding torch of claim 11, including a mounting arm is connected to said neck for mounting the welding torch on a robot. 20. The welding torch of claim 11, including a tubular assembly adjacent said neck for communicating at least one of welding power, welding wire, shielding gas, and cooling water between said rear portion and said welding tip portion. 