Systems and methods for focusing optics are disclosed herein. In some embodiments, methods are disclosed for focusing an optical device, wherein the methods can include: collecting light from a region of an object to be imaged with an objective lens, said region having a feature with a known geometric characteristic; splitting the collected light into a first portion and a second portion, and directing said first portion through a weak cylindrical lens to a focusing sensor, and directing said second portion to an imager; observing, with said focusing sensor, a shape of the feature; focusing the optical device by moving at least one of the objective lens and the object to be imaged until the observed shape of the feature has a predetermined relationship to the known geometric characteristic. In some embodiments, the feature can be a fluorescent bead. In some embodiments, the splitting step can be accomplished with a dichroic mirror. In other embodiments, the splitting step can be accomplished with a partial mirror. In some embodiments, the known geometric characteristic of the feature can be substantially spherical, the observed shape can be an oval, and the predetermined relationship can be an allowable aspect ratio of the oval. In some embodiments, the allowable aspect ratio can be approximately one.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for focusing an optical device, comprising: collecting, with an objective lens, light from a region of an object to be imaged, said region having a feature with a known geometric characteristic, wherein the geometric characteristic is known before the feature is imaged by the optical device; splitting the collected light into a first portion and a second portion, and directing said first portion through a weak cylindrical lens to a focusing sensor, and directing said second portion to an imager; observing, with said focusing sensor, a shape of the feature; autofocusing the optical device by comparing the observed shape of the feature with the known geometric characteristic of the feature and moving at least one of the objective lens and the object to be imaged until the observed shape of the feature has a predetermined relationship to the known geometric characteristic. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the feature is a fluorescent bead. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the splitting step is accomplished with a dichroic mirror. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the splitting step is accomplished with a partial mirror. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the known geometric characteristic is the feature being substantially spherical, the observed shape is an oval, and the predetermined relationship is an allowable aspect ratio of the oval. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the allowable aspect ratio is approximately one. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the focusing sensor and imager produce a digital image. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the digital image is captured using a CMOS chip. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the digital image is captured using a CCD chip. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the digital image is compared to a stored digital image to determine whether the observed shape of the feature has the predetermined relationship to the known geometric characteristic. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the digital image is compared to a theoretical model to determine whether the observed shape of the feature has the predetermined relationship to the known geometric characteristic. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the comparison is performed using a processor. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the comparison is performed using a field-programmable gate array (FPGA). 