A method and apparatus are provided to identify unacceptable levels of porosity, microcracking or defects attributable to thermal damage. Ultrasonic signals are introduced into the workpiece, such as by means of an ultrasonic transmitter. The ultrasonic signals propagate along a predefined axis of propagation oriented at an offset angle relative to a predefined reference direction oriented normal to the workpiece. Backscattered signals are received, such as by an ultrasonic receiver, from the workpiece. A measure representative of the cumulative energy of the backscattered signals received over a predefined time interval is then determined, such as integration performed by a processing element. An anomalous response may then be detected based upon the measure representative of the cumulative energy of the backscattered signals. This anomalous response may be representative of at least a predefined amount of porosity, microcracking or thermal damage.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of inspecting a workpiece comprising: introducing ultrasonic signals into the workpiece along a predefined axis of propagation oriented at an offset angle relative to a predefined reference direction oriented normal to the workpiece; receiving back scattered signals from the workpiece responsive to the ultrasonic signals; determining a measure representative of the cumulative energy of the backscattered signals received over a predefined time interval by integrating the energy of the backscattered signals received over the predefined time interval, wherein the predefined time interval is based upon and at least as long as the time required for ultrasonic signals to propagate through at least that portion of the workpiece that is to be inspected; and detecting an anomalous response from the workpiece based upon the measure representative of the cumulative energy of the backscattered signals. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein introducing the ultrasonic signals comprises introducing the ultrasonic signals at an offset angle of between 5.degree. and 45.degree. relative to the predefined reference direction. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein detecting an anomalous response comprises detecting an anomalous response representative of at least a predefined amount of porosity within the workpiece. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein detecting an anomalous response comprises detecting an anomalous response representative of thermal damage to the workpiece. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein detecting an anomalous response comprises detecting an anomalous response representative of at least a predefined amount of microcracking within the workpiece. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein introducing ultrasonic signals into the workpiece and receiving ultrasonic signals from the workpiece are repeated at a plurality of locations across the workpiece. 7. An inspection apparatus comprising: an ultrasonic transmitter configured to introduce ultrasonic signals into the workpiece along a predefined axis of propagation oriented at an offset angle relative to a predefined reference direction oriented normal to the workpiece; an ultrasonic receiver configured to receive back scattered signals from the workpiece responsive to the ultrasonic signals; and a processing element configured to determine a measure representative of the cumulative energy of the backscattered signals received over a predefined time interval and to detect an anomalous response from the workpiece based upon the measure representative of the cumulative energy of the backscattered signals, wherein determining a measure representative of the cumulative energy of the backscattered signals comprises integrating the energy of the backscattered signals received over the predefined time interval, and wherein the predefined time interval is based upon and at least as long as the time required for ultrasonic signals to propagate through at least that portion of the workpiece that is to be inspected. 8. An inspection apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said ultrasonic transmitter is configured to introduce the ultrasonic signals at an offset angle of between 5.degree. and 45.degree. relative to the predefined reference direction. 9. An inspection apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said processing element is configured to detect an anomalous response representative of at least a predefined amount of porosity within the workpiece. 10. An inspection apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said processing element is configured to detect an anomalous response representative of thermal damage to the workpiece. 11. An inspection apparatus according to claim 7 wherein said processing element is configured to detect an anomalous response representative of at least a predefined amount of microcracking within the workpiece. 12. An inspection apparatus according to claim 7 further comprising a shoe defining the offset angle and carrying at least a portion of the ultrasonic transmitter. 13. An inspection apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the ultrasonic transmitter carried by the shoe comprises at least one ultrasonic transducer, and wherein the shoe comprises an angled shoe. 14. An inspection apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the ultrasonic transmitter carried by the shoe comprises a phased array of ultrasonic transducers. 15. A control apparatus comprising: a processing element configured to direct an ultrasonic transmitter to introduce ultrasonic signals into the workpiece along a predefined axis of propagation oriented at an offset angle relative to a predefined reference direction oriented normal to the workpiece, said processing element also configured to direct an ultrasonic receiver to receive back scattered signals from the workpiece responsive to the ultrasonic signals, said processing element further configured to determine a measure representative of the cumulative energy of the backscattered signals received over a predefined time interval and to detect an anomalous response from the workpiece based upon the measure representative of the cumulative energy of the backscattered signals, wherein the processor is configured to determine a measure representative of the cumulative energy of the backscattered signals by integrating the energy of the backscattered signals received over the predefined time interval, and wherein the predefined time interval is based upon and at least as long as the time required for ultrasonic signals to propagate through at least that portion of the workpiece that is to be inspected. 16. A control apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said processing element is configured to detect an anomalous response representative of at least a predefined amount of porosity within the workpiece. 17. A control apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said processing element is configured to detect an anomalous response representative of thermal damage to the workpiece. 18. A control apparatus according to claim 15 wherein said processing element is configured to detect an anomalous response representative of at least a predefined amount of microcracking within the workpiece. 