The present invention concerns a method and apparatus for automatic staining or other processing of a biological sample on a slide, perhaps robotically, by applying predetermined amounts of reagents in a predetermined sequence according to a processing protocol, the processing including pre-treatment steps, under the control of an adaptive processing control system. Further provided is a method of antigen retrieval, the method comprising contacting, within a heated processing tank of an automated staining apparatus, at least one biological sample with at least one composition for antigen retrieval comprising at least one chelating agent, at least one detergent and at least 50% by volume of at least one liquid that facilitates antigen retrieval.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for automated antigen retrieval and staining of a biological sample on a slide, comprising the steps of: providing an apparatus comprising: a heatable processing tank configured to perform antigen retrieval upon the sample, a slide holder configured to hold the slide and a moveable probe configured to administer reagents to the sample during staining, wherein the moveable probe is further configured to deliver reagents to additional samples on additional slides; mounting the slide onto the slide holder; rotating the slide about an axis parallel to a plane of the slide into a first orientation; causing the sample to contact a solution heated within the processing tank; removing the slide from the processing tank after a duration of time appropriate for antigen retrieval; rotating the slide about an axis parallel to a plane of the slide into a second orientation; and administering the reagents to the sample with the probe, wherein the solution comprises at least one chelating agent, at least one detergent and at least 50% by volume of at least one liquid that facilitates antigen retrieval. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one chelating agent is chosen from the group consisting of citric acid, sodium citrate and EDTA. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one detergent is chosen from polysorbate 20, nonyl phenoxylpolyethoxylethanol, saponin, and polyoxyethyleneglycol dodecyl ether. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one liquid that facilitates antigen retrieval is a glycol. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the glycol is chosen from the group consisting of ethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one liquid that facilitates antigen retrieval is a glycerol. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one liquid that facilitates antigen retrieval comprises a mixture between a first and a second liquid. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first liquid is propylene glycol. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the second liquid is ethylene glycol. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the boiling point of the solution is at least 120.degree. C. at sea level. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the boiling point of the solution is at least 131.degree. C. at sea level. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the viscosity of the solution is between 15-235 centipoise at 20.degree. C. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the viscosity of the solution is between 1-10 centipoise at 20.degree. C. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing tank is heated by a heating element disposed below the processing tank. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein an insulation blanket at least partially surrounds the heating blanket. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing tank is heated by a heating blanket at least partially surrounding the processing tank. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the slide holder is disposed within a slide rack housed within a drawer of the apparatus. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first orientation is substantially vertical. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the first orientation is substantially vertical and the second orientation is substantially horizontal. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the probe is disposed upon a moveable arm. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein a second biological sample upon a second slide mounted onto a second slide holder within the apparatus is stained simultaneously with the staining of the sample. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the second sample is caused to contact the solution. 23. A method for automated de-paraffinization, antigen retrieval and staining of a biological sample on a slide, comprising the steps of: providing an apparatus comprising: a heatable processing tank configured to perform de-paraffinization and antigen retrieval upon the sample, a slide holder configured to hold the slide and a robotic mechanism configured to position a probe moveable in a vertical Z direction for administering reagents to the sample during staining; mounting the slide onto the slide holder; rotating the slide about an axis parallel to a plane of the slide into a first orientation; causing the sample to contact a first solution within the processing tank, the first solution causing de-paraffinization of the sample; draining the first solution from the processing tank; causing the sample to contact a second solution heated within the processing tank; removing the slide from the processing tank after a duration of time appropriate for antigen retrieval; rotating the slide about an axis parallel to a plane of the slide into a second orientation; and administering the reagents to the sample with the probe, wherein the second solution comprises at least one chelating agent, at least one detergent and at least 50% by volume of at least one liquid that facilitates antigen retrieval. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one chelating agent is chosen from the group consisting of citric acid, sodium citrate and EDTA. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the at least one detergent is chosen from polysorbate 20, nonyl phenoxylpolyethoxylethanol, saponin, and polyoxyethyleneglycol dodecyl ether. 26. The method claim 23, wherein the at least one liquid that facilitates antigen retrieval is a glycol. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the glycol is chosen from the group consisting of ethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol. 28. The method claim 23, wherein the at least one liquid that facilitates antigen retrieval is a glycerol. 29. The method of claim 23, wherein the boiling point of the second solution is at least 120.degree. C. at sea level. 30. The method of claim 23, wherein the slide holder rotates the slide into the first orientation prior to the contact between the sample and the first solution and rotates the slide into the second orientation prior to the administering of the reagents to the sample with the probe. 31. The method of claim 23, wherein a second biological sample upon a second slide mounted onto a second slide holder within the apparatus is stained simultaneously with the staining of the sample. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the second sample is caused to contact at least one member of the group consisting of the first solution and the second solution. 