An active laser energy delivery system includes a relay imaging system. Input optics arranged to receive the laser energy, a transmitting mirror having adjustable angle of incidence relative to the input optics, and a robot mounted processing head including an optical assembly are configured to direct laser energy toward the movable target image plane. The laser energy follows an optical path including an essentially straight segment from the transmitting mirror to the receiving mirror, having a variable length and a variable angle relative to the input optics. Diagnostics on the processing head facilitate operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for delivering laser energy from a source of laser energy, comprising: a relay imaging system which relays an image of an output of the source to a target image plane over an adjustable optical pathlength, the relay imaging system including input optics arranged to receive the laser energy from an output of the source of laser energy, a transmitting mirror mounted on a gimbal having an adjustable angle of incidence relative to the input optics, and a robot mounted optical assembly, the robot mounted optical assembly including a receiving mirror mounted on a gimbal having an adjustable angle of incidence relative to the transmitting mirror, and output optics directing the laser energy toward the target image plane; and a controller to configure the transmitting mirror, the robot mounted optical assembly and the receiving mirror to direct the laser energy through the robot mounted optical assembly to target positions on surface of a target work piece, and wherein the target image plane is within a range of distance before or after the target positions on the surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the target image plane is positioned within about 1 meter before or after the target positions on the surface. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser radiation follows an optical path from the receiving mirror through output optics to the surface of the target work piece which is essentially straight and has a variable length. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser radiation follows an optical path including a segment from the transmitting mirror to the receiving mirror which is essentially straight, and a segment from the receiving mirror through output optics to the surface of the target work piece which is essentially straight. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser radiation follows an optical path including a segment from the transmitting mirror to the receiving mirror which is essentially straight, and a segment from the receiving mirror through output optics to the surface of the target work piece which is essentially straight, and wherein the laser energy is directed on first and second beam paths for delivery of first and second pulses to the surface of the work piece, and first and second beam paths have incident and reflected beam lines at the transmitting mirror, and incident and reflected beam lines at the receiving mirror, and the controller adjusts the transmitting mirror and receiving mirror to control orientation of a plane containing the incident and reflected beam lines at the transmitting mirror, and orientation of a plane containing the incident and reflected beam lines at the receiving mirror, and adjusts the robot mounted optical assembly to direct the first and second beam paths to respective locations on the surface of the target work piece. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transmitting mirror and receiving mirror are separated by a variable length of free air, through which the laser energy propagates, having a length of about one meter or more. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transmitting mirror and receiving mirror are separated by a variable length of air, through which the laser energy propagates, and the first and second pulses have cross-sections, and including optics which enlarge the cross-sections of the first and second pulses for propagation through the air. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second pulses have cross-sections, and including optics which rotate the cross-sections of the first and second pulses. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser energy is directed on first and second beam paths for delivery of first and second pulses to the surface of the work piece, and first and second beam paths have incident and reflected beam lines at the transmitting mirror, and incident and reflected beam lines at the receiving mirror, and including controllable optics to rotate cross-sections of the first and second pulses according to an angle between a plane containing the incident and reflected beam lines on the transmitting mirror and a plane containing the incident and reflected beam lines on the receiving mirror. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, including a rotary stage, adapted for holding the work piece adjacent the optical assembly. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the work piece has a substantially circularly symmetric cross-section, and including a rotary stage, adapted for holding the work piece adjacent the optical assembly, and the controller includes components that control rotation of the rotary stage. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser energy includes laser pulses having energies per pulse in a range from about 10 to about 100 Joules per pulse. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser energy includes laser pulses having pulse widths in a range from about 10 to 30 nanoseconds. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser energy includes laser pulses having energies in a range from about 10 to about 100 Joules per pulse and pulse widths in a range from about 10 to 30 nanoseconds. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical assembly includes diagnostic components. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser energy includes laser pulses having a wavelength of about 1.1 micron or less, and an energy greater than 250 mJ per pulse. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser energy includes laser pulses having a wavelength of about 1.1 micron or less, and an energy greater than 10 J per pulse. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the source of laser energy comprises a master oscillator/power amplifier system. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the gimbal on which the transmitting mirror is mounted, has a position on a fixed beam line of the output of the source of laser energy, and the gimbal on which the receiving mirror is mounted has a position fixed on the robot mounted optical assembly, and wherein the controller is adapted to move the robot mounted optical assembly to vary the position of the receiving mirror in two or more dimensions relative to the transmitting mirror. 20. A method for delivering laser energy from a source of laser energy, comprising: positioning a robot mounted optical assembly to direct the laser energy to a target surface; and relaying an image of an output of the source to a target image plane over an adjustable optical pathlength, including receiving the laser energy from the output of the source of laser energy adjusting an angle of incidence of the laser energy at a transmitting mirror to direct the laser energy to a receiving mirror on the robot mounted optical assembly, and adjusting an angle of incidence of the laser energy at the receiving mirror to direct the laser energy toward the target image plane, wherein the target image plane is within a range of distance before or after target positions on the target surface. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the target image plane is positioned within about 1 meter before or after the target positions on the surface. 22. The method of claim 20, wherein the laser radiation follows an essentially straight optical path from the receiving mirror through output optics to the target surface. 23. The method of claim 20, wherein the laser radiation follows an optical path including an essentially straight segment from the transmitting mirror to the receiving mirror, and an essentially straight segment from the receiving mirror through output optics to the target surface. 24. The method of claim 20, wherein the laser radiation follows an optical path including an essentially straight segment from the transmitting mirror to the receiving mirror, and an essentially straight segment from the receiving mirror through output optics to the surface of the target work piece, and wherein the laser energy is directed on first and second beam paths for delivery of first and second pulses to the surface of the work piece, and first and second beam paths have incident and reflected beam lines at the transmitting mirror, and incident and reflected beam lines at the receiving mirror, and including adjusting the transmitting mirror and receiving mirror to control orientation of a plane containing the incident and reflected beam lines at the transmitting mirror, and orientation of a plane containing the incident and reflected beam lines at the receiving mirror, and adjusting the robot mounted optical assembly to direct the first and second beam paths to respective locations on the surface of the target work piece. 25. The method of claim 20, wherein the transmitting mirror and receiving mirror are separated by a variable length of free air, through which the laser energy propagates, having a length of about one meter or more. 26. The method of claim 20, wherein the transmitting mirror and receiving mirror are separated by a variable length of air through which the laser energy propagates, and the laser energy comprises pulses having cross-sections, and including enlarging the cross-sections of the pulses for propagation through the variable length of air. 27. The method of claim 20, wherein the laser energy comprises pulses having cross-sections, and including rotating the cross-sections of the pulses. 28. The method of claim 20, wherein the laser energy includes first and second pulses directed on respective first and second beam paths for delivery to the target surface, and first and second beam paths have incident and reflected beam lines at the transmitting mirror, and incident and reflected beam lines at the receiving mirror, and including rotating cross-sections of the first and second pulses according to an angle between a plane containing the incident and reflected beam lines on the transmitting mirror and a plane containing the incident and reflected beam lines on the receiving mirror. 29. The method of claim 20, including holding the work piece adjacent the robot mounted optical assembly. 30. The method of claim 20, positioning the work piece between first and second pulses of the laser energy. 31. The method of claim 20, wherein the laser energy includes laser pulses having energies per pulse in a range from about 10 to about 100 Joules per pulse. 32. The method of claim 20, wherein the laser energy includes laser pulses having pulse widths in a range from about 10 to 30 nanoseconds. 33. The method of claim 20, wherein the laser energy includes laser pulses having energies in a range from about 10 to about 100 Joules per pulse and pulse widths in a range from about 10 to 30 nanoseconds. 34. The method of claim 20, wherein the laser energy includes laser pulses having a wavelength of about 1.1 micron or less, and an energy greater than 250 mJ per pulse. 35. The method of claim 20, wherein the laser energy includes laser pulses having a wavelength of about 1.1 micron or less, and an energy greater than 10 J per pulse. 36. The method of claim 20, wherein the transmitting mirror has a position fixed on a beam line of the output of the source of laser energy, and the receiving mirror has a position determined in two or more dimensions by said positioning the robot mounted optical assembly. 