A tape library is provided with a fixed coupling mechanism so that the tape library includes discrete locations via which power and communication are provided to an accessor. The use of such a coupling mechanism in a vertical tape library allows for the use of gravity to ensure that the accessor can couple with the fixed coupling mechanism even when no power is present in the accessor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage device comprising: a storage device housing, the storage device housing comprising a fixed coupling mechanism, an accessor, the accessor comprising an accessor coupling mechanism, the accessor coupling mechanism being positioned to couple with the fixed coupling mechanism as the accessor travels within the storage device housing, the accessor comprising an accessor tray, the accessor coupling mechanism being positioned on the accessor tray; and, a robot, the robot being moved substantially vertically within the storage device housing by the accessor tray. 2. A storage device comprising: a storage device housing, the storage device housing comprising a fixed coupling mechanism, an accessor, the accessor comprising an accessor coupling mechanism, the accessor coupling mechanism being positioned to couple with the fixed coupling mechanism as the accessor travels within the storage device housing; and wherein the fixed coupling mechanism includes an inductor; the accessor coupling mechanism includes an inductor; and, the fixed coupling mechanism and the accessor coupling mechanism are coupled via inductive coupling. 3. The storage device of claim 2 wherein: power is provided to the accessor when the fixed coupling mechanism is coupled to the accessor coupling mechanism. 4. A tape storage system comprising: a host; a storage device coupled to the host, the storage device comprising a storage device housing, the storage device housing comprising a fixed coupling mechanism, an accessor, the accessor comprising an accessor coupling mechanism, the accessor coupling mechanism being positioned to couple with the fixed coupling mechanism as the accessor travels within the storage device housing, the accessor comprising an accessor tray, the accessor coupling mechanism being positioned on the accessor tray; and, a robot, the robot being moved substantially vertically within the storage device housing by the accessor tray. 5. A tape storage system comprising: a host; a storage device coupled to the host, the storage device comprising a storage device housing, the storage device housing comprising a fixed coupling mechanism, an accessor, the accessor comprising an accessor coupling mechanism, the accessor coupling mechanism being positioned to couple with the fixed coupling mechanism as the accessor travels within the storage device housing; and wherein the fixed coupling mechanism includes an inductor; the accessor coupling mechanism includes an inductor; and, the fixed coupling mechanism and the accessor coupling mechanism are coupled via inductive coupling. 6. The tape storage system of claim 5 wherein: power is provided to the accessor when the fixed coupling mechanism is coupled to the accessor coupling mechanism. 