A method for specifying an animatronics unit includes receiving a force-based software model for the animatronics unit, receiving a kinematics-based software model for the animatronics unit, receiving animation data for animating the kinematics-based software model, wherein the animation data comprises artistically determined motions for the kinematics-based software model by a user, determining a plurality of driving signals in response to the animation data, animating the force-based software model of the animatronics unit in response to the plurality of driving signals, displaying animation of the force-based software model determined in response to the plurality of driving signals, and determining a specification for construction of the animatronics unit in response to animation of the force-based software model.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for specifying an animatronics unit: receiving a force-based software model for the animatronics unit; receiving a kinematics-based software model for the animatronics unit; receiving animation data for animating the kinematics-based software model, wherein the animation data comprises artistically determined motions for the kinematics-based software model by a user; determining a plurality of driving signals in response to the animation data; animating the force-based software model of the animatronics unit in response to the plurality of driving signals; displaying animation of the force-based software model determined in response to the plurality of driving signals; receiving compensation data from the user, in response to the animation of the force-based software model; determining a plurality of modified driving signals in response to the animation of the force-based software model and in response to the compensation data; animating the force-based software model in response to the plurality of modified driving signals; displaying animation of the force-based software model in response to the plurality of modified driving signals; and determining a specification for construction of the animatronics unit in response to animation of the force-based software model. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising receiving modified animation data for animating the force-based software model, wherein the modified animation data comprises artistically determined modified motions for the animatronics unit by the user, in response to animation of the force-based software model; determining a plurality of modified driving signals in response to the modified animation data; animating the force-based software model in response to the plurality of driving signals; and displaying animation of the force-based software model determined in response to the plurality of modified driving signals. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: constructing the animatronics unit in response the specification for construction of the animatronics unit; and animating the animatronics unit in response to the plurality of driving signals. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising receiving modified animation data for animating the kinematics-based software model, wherein the modified animation data comprises artistically determined modified motions for the kinematics-based software model by a user, in response to animation of the animatronics unit; determining a plurality of modified driving signals in response to the modified animation data; and animating the animatronics unit in response to the plurality of modified driving signals. 5. The method of claim 3 further comprising determining a plurality of modified driving signals in response to animation of the animatronics unit; and animating the animatronics unit in response to the plurality of modified driving signals. 6. A computer system comprising: a memory configured to store a force-based software model for the animatronics unit, wherein the memory is configured to store a kinematics-based software model for the animatronics unit, wherein the memory is configured to store animation data for animating the kinematics-based software model, wherein the animation data comprises artistically determined motions for the kinematics-based software model by a user; a processor coupled to the memory, wherein the processor is configured to determine a plurality of driving signals in response to the animation data, wherein the processor is configured to animate the force-based software model of the animatronics unit in response to the plurality of driving signals; and a display coupled to the processor, wherein the display is configured to display animation of the force-based software model determined in response to the plurality of driving signals; wherein the processor is also configured to output a specification for construction of the animatronics unit in response to animation of the force-based software model; wherein the processor is configured to receive compensation data from the user, in response to the animation of the force-based software model; and wherein the processor is configured to determine the plurality of modified driving signals in response to the compensation data. 7. The computer system of claim 6 wherein the processor is also configured to receive modified animation data for animating the force-based software model, wherein the modified animation data comprises artistically determined modified motions for the animatronics unit by the user, in response to animation of the force-based software model; wherein the processor is also configured to determine a plurality of modified driving signals in response to the modified animation data; wherein the processor is also configured to animate the force-based software model in response to the plurality of driving signals; and wherein the display is configured to display animation of the force-based software model determined in response to the plurality of modified driving signals. 8. The computer system of claim 6 wherein the processor is configured to determine a plurality of modified driving signals in response to the animation of the force-based software model; wherein the processor is configured to animate the force-based software model in response to the plurality of modified driving signals; and wherein the display is configured to display animation of the force-based software model in response to the plurality of modified driving signals. 9. A method for specifying an animatronics unit comprising: determining a force-based software model for the animatronics unit; determining a kinematics-based software model for the animatronics unit; receiving animation data for animating the kinematics-based software model, wherein the animation data comprises artistically determined motions by a user; animating the force-based software model in response to the animation data; displaying animation of the force-based software model determined in response to the animation data; and determining a physical implementation of the animatronics unit in response to animation of the kinematics-based software model, comprising: a) determining an initial physical implementation of the animatronics unit; and b) determining the physical implementation of the animatronics unit in response to animation of the kinematics-based software model and to the initial physical implementation; wherein the initial physical implementation comprises an initial implementation of a component of the animatronics unit consisting of a first material; wherein the physical implementation comprises an implementation of the component of the animatronics unit consisting of a second material instead of the first material; and wherein the first material has a density different from a density of the second material. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the initial physical implementation comprises an initial implementation of a component of the animatronics unit having a first performance characteristic; wherein the physical implementation comprises an implementation of the component of the animatronics unit having a second performance characteristic instead of the first performance characteristic. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein the first performance characteristic is selected from a group consisting of: power dissipation, slew rate, power requirements, step angles, speed, step angle accuracy, required voltage, drive current, torque, pump capacity, pressure per square inch, hydraulic head, horse power, flow rate. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the initial physical implementation comprises an initial implementation of a joint of the animatronics unit having a first location; wherein the physical implementation comprises an implementation of the joint of the animatronics unit having a second location instead of the first location. 13. A method for specifying an animatronics unit comprising: determining a force-based software model for the animatronics unit; determining a kinematics-based software model for the animatronics unit; receiving animation data for animating the kinematics-based software model, wherein the animation data comprises artistically determined motions by a user; animating the force-based software model in response to the animation data; displaying animation of the force-based software model determined in response to the animation data; and determining a physical implementation of the animatronics unit in response to animation of the kinematics-based software model, comprising: a) determining an initial physical implementation of the animatronics unit; and b) determining the physical implementation of the animatronics unit in response to animation of the kinematics-based software model and to the initial physical implementation; wherein the initial physical implementation comprises an initial implementation of a component of the animatronics unit having a first dimension; wherein the physical implementation comprises an implementation of the component of the animatronics unit having a second dimension instead of the first dimension. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the initial physical implementation comprises an initial implementation of a component of the animatronics unit having a first performance characteristic; wherein the physical implementation comprises an implementation of the component of the animatronics unit having a second performance characteristic instead of the first performance characteristic. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the first performance characteristic is selected from a group consisting of: power dissipation, slew rate, power requirements, step angles, speed, step angle accuracy, required voltage, drive current, torque, pump capacity, pressure per square inch, hydraulic head, horse power, flow rate. 16. The method of claim 13 wherein the initial physical implementation comprises an initial implementation of a joint of the animatronics unit having a first location; wherein the physical implementation comprises an implementation of the joint of the animatronics unit having a second location instead of the first location. 17. A method for a computer system for controlling an animatronics unit comprises: receiving an animation timing sheet specifying a plurality of animation values at a first rate of values per time period; determining a plurality of driving values at a second rate of values per time period in response to the plurality of animation values, wherein the second rate is greater than the first rate; animating the animatronics unit in response to the plurality of driving values at the second rate of values per time period. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the method further comprises: receiving a specification of a software model of the animatronics unit; and animating the software model of the animatronics unit in response to the plurality of driving values at the second rate of values per time period. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the plurality of animation values are associated with a plurality of curves; wherein the method further comprises: modifying the plurality of curves to form a plurality of modified animation values at the first rate of values per time period, in response to animation of the animatronics unit in response to the plurality of driving values; determining a plurality of modified driving values at the second rate of values per time period in response to the plurality of modified animation values; and animating the animatronics unit in response to the plurality of modified driving values at the second rate of values per time period. 20. An animatronics device comprising: a plurality of motors, wherein each motor is configured to be driven by motor driving data; a first portion and a second portion, coupled via a motor from the plurality of motors; a memory configured to store a plurality of motor driving data, wherein motor driving data associated with a the motor from the plurality of motors comprises driving data at a first rate of data per time period, wherein the driving data is determined in response to animation timing data, wherein the animation timing data comprises animation data at a second rate of data per time period, wherein the first rate exceeds the second rate, and wherein the animation timing data is determined in response to animation curve data defined by a user; and a processor coupled to the memory and to the motor, wherein the processor is configured to retrieve the motor driving data from the memory and configured to apply the motor driving data to the plurality of motors at the first rate. 21. The animatronics device of claim 20 wherein the processor is configured to determine the motor driving data in response to the animation data. 22. The animatronics device of claim 20 wherein the memory is selected from a group consisting of: replaceable memory, writable memory. 23. The animatronics device of claim 20 further comprising a power source configured to power the plurality of motors, the memory, and the processor; wherein the power source is selected from a group consisting of: battery, capacitor. 