Well bore servicing equipment is provided. The well bore servicing equipment comprises a first manipulator to grip a well bore work string, to raise the work string, and to lower the work string. The well bore servicing equipment further comprises a controller to receive a work string trajectory input and to automatically control the first manipulator to raise and lower the work string substantially in conformance with the work string trajectory input.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mass position and velocity observer, comprising: a proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controller portion operable to determine a mass position error and a mass velocity error and to generate a corrective signal based on the mass position error and on the mass velocity error; a first gain operable to amplify an indication of mass velocity by a mass damper gain to generate a damper force signal; a force summation portion that is operable to determine a summed force term based on the corrective signal, based on the damper force signal, based on a force command, and based on a mass weight term; a second gain operable to amplify the summed force term by an inverse mass gain and to generate a mass acceleration term; a first integrator operable to integrate the mass acceleration term to generate a mass velocity term and to output an estimate of mass velocity; and a second integrator operable to integrate the mass velocity term to generate a mass position term and to output an estimate of mass position. 2. The mass position and velocity observer of claim 1, wherein the proportional-integral-derivative controller portion is further operable to produce a mass force disturbance term based on the mass position error and on the mass velocity error. 3. The mass position and velocity observer of claim 1, wherein the mass position error is determined as the difference of a sensed mass position and the estimate of mass position. 4. The mass position and velocity observer of claim 1, wherein the mass velocity error is determined as the difference of a sensed mass velocity and the estimate of mass velocity. 5. The mass position and velocity observer of claim 1, further comprising a third gain operable to amplify the indication of mass velocity by a friction gain to determine a friction force signal, wherein the summed force term is further based on the friction force signal. 6. The mass position and velocity observer of claim 1, wherein the mass weight term is a constant value configured in the mass position and velocity observer. 7. A control system for controlling movement of a work string in a well bore, comprising: a controller comprising a processor, a memory, and a mass velocity and position observer component comprising a proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controller portion operable to determine a mass position error and a mass velocity error and to generate a corrective signal based on the mass position error and on the mass velocity error; a first gain operable to amplify an indication of mass velocity by a mass damper gain to generate a damper force signal; a force summation portion that is operable to determine a summed force term based on the corrective signal, based on the damper force signal, based on a force command, and based on a mass weight term; a second gain operable to amplify the summed force term by an inverse mass gain and to generate a mass acceleration term; a first integrator operable to integrate the mass acceleration term to generate a mass velocity term and to output an estimate of mass velocity; and a second integrator operable to integrate the mass velocity term to generate a mass position term and to output an estimate of mass position, wherein the controller receives a work string trajectory input from a user interface, the trajectory input comprising at least a first work string target position and a first work string target velocity, and commands a first manipulator to move the work string based at least in part on the estimate of mass velocity, the estimate of mass position, and the work string trajectory input. 8. The control system of claim 7, wherein the proportional-integral-derivative controller portion is further operable to produce a mass force disturbance term based on the mass position error and on the mass velocity error. 9. The control system of claim 7, wherein the mass position error is determined as the difference of a sensed mass position and the estimate of mass position. 10. The control system of claim 7, wherein the mass velocity error is determined as the difference of a sensed mass velocity and the estimate of mass velocity. 11. The control system of claim 7, further comprising a third gain operable to amplify the indication of mass velocity by a friction gain to determine a friction force signal, wherein the summed force term is further based on the friction force signal. 12. The control system of claim 7, wherein the mass weight term is a constant value configured in the mass position and velocity observer. 13. A method of servicing a well bore with a work string, comprising: determining a mass position error and a mass velocity error; generating a corrective signal based on the mass position error and on the mass velocity error; amplifying an indication of mass velocity by a mass damper gain to generate a damper force signal; determining a summed force term based on the corrective signal, based on the damper force signal; amplifying the summed force term by an inverse mass gain to generate a mass acceleration term; integrating the mass acceleration term to generate a mass velocity term and to output an estimate of mass velocity; integrating the mass velocity term to generate a mass position term and to output an estimate of mass position; receiving a work string trajectory input from a user interface, the trajectory input comprising at least a first work string target position and a first work string target velocity; and commanding a first manipulator to move the work string based at least in part on the estimate of mass velocity, the estimate of mass position, and the work string trajectory input. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining a mass force disturbance term based on the mass position error and on the mass velocity error, wherein commanding the first manipulator to move the work string is further based on the mass force disturbance term. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the mass position error is determined as the difference of a sensed mass position and the estimate of mass position. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the mass velocity error is determined as the difference of a sensed mass velocity and the estimate of mass velocity. 17. The method of claim 13, further comprising amplifying the indication of mass velocity by a friction gain to determine a friction force signal, wherein the summed force term is further based on the friction force signal. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein the mass weight term is a constant value. 19. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the summed force term is further based on a force command. 20. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the summed force term is further based on a mass weight term. 