The invention relates to a transfer mechanism for transferring a specimen (2) from a first position in a first holder (40) to a second position in a second holder (10) and/or vice versa, each holder (10, 40) equipped to detachably hold the specimen, the transfer of the specimen between the holders taking place in a transfer position different from the second position, characterized in that when the specimen is transferred between the holders (10, 40) a mechanical guidance mechanism positions the holders with a mutual accuracy higher than the mutual accuracy in the second position, and said mechanical guidance mechanism not positioning at least one of the holders (10, 40) when the specimen is in the second position. The mechanical guidance mechanism may comprise extra parts (50). At least one of the holders (40) may be equipped to hold a multitude of specimens.
Claims We claim as follows: 1. Transfer mechanism for transferring a specimen from a first position in a first holder to a second position in a second holder, each holder equipped to detachably hold the specimen wherein at least one of the holders includes a gripper for gripping the specimen by moving from an open position to a closed position and releasing the specimen by moving from a closed position to an open position, the transfer of the specimen between the holders taking place in a transfer position different from the second position, characterized in that when the specimen is transferred between the holders a mechanical guidance mechanism positions the holders with a mutual positional accuracy higher than the positional accuracy of the second holder in the second position, and said mechanical guidance mechanism not positioning at least one of the holders when the specimen is in the second position. 2. Transfer mechanism according to claim 1 in which the mechanical guidance mechanism is formed by the cooperation of the shape of the holders. 3. Transfer mechanism according to claim 1 in which the mechanical guidance mechanism is formed by the cooperation of the two holders with a separate member, said member detachably contacted by both holders when the specimen is transferred. 4. Transfer mechanism according to claim 1 in which at least one of the first and second holders is equipped to hold a multitude of specimens. 5. Transfer mechanism according to claim 1 in which the transfer mechanism is equipped to operate in a vacuum environment. 6. Transfer mechanism according to claim 1 in which the mutual positional accuracy of the holders during the transfer of the specimen must be less than 50 .mu.m in any direction. 7. Apparatus equipped with a transfer mechanism according to claim 1. 8. Apparatus according to claim 7 in which the apparatus is a particle-optical apparatus. 9. A transfer mechanism for transferring a microscopic specimen from a first holder to a second holder, the mechanism comprising: a first specimen holder for holding a specimen; a second, moveable specimen holder having a first positional accuracy and including a releasable gripper for gripping the specimen by moving from an open position to a closed position and releasing the specimen by moving from a closed position to an open position; and a mechanical guide to align the first holder and the second holder at a transfer position, the mechanical guide providing a relative positional accuracy between the first specimen holder and the second specimen holder greater than the first positional accuracy. 10. The transfer mechanism of claim 9 further comprising a drive for moving the second, moveable specimen holder from the transfer position to a second position, the mechanical guide not guiding the second, moveable specimen holder at the second position. 11. The transfer mechanism of claim 9 in which the mechanical guide is formed by the cooperation of a structure of the first specimen holder and a complementary structure of the second specimen holder. 12. The transfer mechanism of claim 9 in which the mechanical guide is formed by the cooperation of the two specimen holders with a separate member, said member detachably contacted by both specimen holders when the specimen is transferred. 13. The transfer mechanism of claim 9 in which at least one of the first and second specimen holders is equipped to hold a multitude of specimens. 14. The transfer mechanism of claim 9 in which at least one of the first and second specimen holders is equipped to hold a TEM specimen grid. 15. A method of transferring a microscopic specimen, comprising: providing a first specimen holder holding a specimen; providing a mechanical guide, the position of the mechanical guide being determined by the position of the first specimen holder; providing a second, moveable specimen holder including a gripper for gripping the specimen; guiding a second specimen holder using the mechanical guide into a position proximate to the first specimen holder; gripping the specimen using the gripper of the second specimen holder, wherein the gripper of the second specimen holder moves from an open position to a closed position; releasing the specimen from the first specimen holder; moving the second, moveable specimen holder with the specimen to a second position, the mechanical guide, being positioned by the first specimen holder, allowing alignment between the specimen holders with greater precision than the positional precision capability of the second specimen holder without the mechanical guide. 16. The method of claim 15 in which: moving the second, moveable specimen holder with the specimen to a second position including moving the second, moveable specimen holder with a first positionable accuracy; and guiding a second specimen holder using the mechanical guide into a position proximate to the first specimen holder includes guiding the second specimen holder with an accuracy greater than the first positional accuracy. 17. The method of claim 15 in which guiding a second specimen holder using the mechanical guide into a position proximate to the first specimen holder includes guiding the second specimen holder using a complementary structure connected to each of the first specimen holder and the second specimen holder. 18. The method of claim 15 in which guiding a second specimen holder using the mechanical guide into a position proximate to the first specimen holder includes guiding the second specimen holder using a separate member detachably contacted by the first specimen holder and the second specimen holder. 19. The method of claim 15 in which gripping the specimen using the gripper of the second specimen holder includes gripping a TEM grid and in which releasing the specimen from the first specimen holder includes releasing a TEM grid. 20. The method of claim 15 in which moving the second, moveable specimen holder with the specimen to a second position includes moving the second specimen holder to insert the specimen into a TEM. 