Embodiments of the invention include a heated load lock chamber. In one embodiment, a heated load lock chamber includes a chamber body having a plurality of lamp assembles disposed at least partially therein. Each lamp assembly includes a transmissive tube housing a lamp. The transmissive tube extends into the chamber body and provides a pressure barrier isolating the lamp from the interior volume of the load lock chamber. In another embodiment, an open end of the transmissive tube extends through a sidewall of the chamber body. A closed end of the transmissive tube is surrounded by the interior volume of the chamber body and is supported below a top of the chamber body in a spaced apart relation. The open end of the tube is sealed to the sidewall of the chamber body such that the interior of the tube is open to atmosphere.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heated load lock chamber, comprising: a chamber body having an interior volume and at least two substrate access ports; and a plurality of lamp assembles extending at least partially into the interior volume of the chamber body, wherein each lamp assembly further comprises: a lamp; and a transmissive tube having an open end exposed to atmosphere outside the chamber body, the transmissive tube extending into the interior volume of the chamber body and providing a pressure barrier isolating the lamp from the interior volume of the chamber body. 2. The heated load lock chamber of claim 1, wherein the transmissive tube further comprises: a closed end disposed in the interior volume of the chamber body. 3. The heated load lock chamber of claim 1, wherein the transmissive tube further comprises: a reflective material coating an upper surface of the tube. 4. The heated load lock chamber of claim 3, wherein the reflective material further comprises gold. 5. The heated load lock chamber of claim 1, wherein the transmissive tube is fabricated from quartz. 6. The heated load lock chamber of claim 1, wherein the transmissive tube has a geometry selected to prevent collapse when the tube is surrounded by vacuum processing conditions and an interior of the tube is at substantially ambient pressure. 7. The heated load lock chamber of claim 1, wherein the lamp further comprises a carbon IR lamp. 8. The heated load lock chamber of claim 7, wherein the lamp further comprises an elongated u-shaped member. 9. The heated load lock chamber of claim 1, wherein the lamp further comprises: a reflective material coating an upper surface of the lamp. 10. The heated load lock chamber of claim 9, wherein the reflective material further comprises gold. 11. The heated load lock chamber of claim 1, wherein the plurality of lamp assemblies further comprises: a first group of lamp assemblies extending from a first wall of the chamber body; and a second group of lamp assemblies extending from a second wall of the chamber body, wherein first and second groups of lamp assemblies have parallel centerlines. 12. The heated load lock chamber of claim 11, wherein the centerlines of lamp assemblies are not orientated perpendicularly to an orientation of the first wall. 13. The heated load lock chamber of claim 1, wherein the plurality of lamp assemblies further comprises: a first lamp assembly extending from a first wall of the chamber body; and a second lamp assembly extending from a second wall of the chamber body, wherein the first and second lamp assemblies have a coaxial centerline. 14. The heated load lock chamber of claim 13, wherein the plurality of lamp assemblies further comprises: a third lamp assembly extending from the first wall of the chamber body; and a fourth lamp assembly extending from the second wall of the chamber body, wherein the third and fourth lamp assemblies have a coaxial centerline, and wherein ends of the first and second lamp assemblies are aligned with the ends of the third and fourth lamp assemblies. 15. The heated load lock chamber of claim 13, wherein the plurality of lamp assemblies further comprises: a third lamp assembly extending from the first wall of the chamber body; and a fourth lamp assembly extending from the second wall of the chamber body, wherein the third and fourth lamp assemblies have a coaxial centerline, and wherein ends of the first and third lamp assemblies project different distances into the chamber volume. 16. A heated load lock chamber, comprising: a chamber body having an interior volume and at least two substrate transfer ports; at least one lamp assembly comprising: a lamp; and a transmissive tube housing the lamp therein, wherein the transmissive tube further comprising: an open end extending through a sidewall of the chamber body, the open end of the tube sealed to the sidewall of the chamber body such that an interior of the tube is open to atmosphere; and a closed end extending into and surrounded by the interior volume of the chamber body, the closed end supported in a spaced-apart relation to a top of the chamber body. 17. The heated load lock chamber of claim 16, wherein a centerline of the tube has an orientation parallel to a bottom of the chamber body. 18. The heated load lock chamber of claim 17, wherein the orientation of the centerline of the tube is non-perpendicular to the wall of the chamber body from which the tube extends. 19. A heated load lock chamber, comprising: A) a chamber body having an interior volume defined between first and second opposing sidewalls; B) a plurality of first lamp assemblies supported in a parallel relationship, each first lamp assembly further comprising: a lamp; and a transmissive tube housing the lamp therein, wherein the tube comprises: an open end exposed to atmosphere and through which the lamp may be extracted through the first sidewall of the chamber body; and a closed end extending toward the second sidewall and into an interior of the chamber body, and wherein the tube provides a pressure barrier isolating the lamp from the interior volume of the load lock chamber; and C) a plurality of second lamp assemblies supported in a parallel relationship, each second lamp assembly further comprising: a lamp; and a transmissive tube housing the lamp therein, the tube further comprising: an open end exposed to atmosphere and through which the lamp may be extracted through the second sidewall of the chamber body; and a closed end extending toward the first sidewall and into an interior of the chamber body, and wherein the tube provides a pressure barrier isolating the lamp from the interior volume of the load lock chamber. 20. The heated load lock chamber of claim 19, wherein centerlines of the first lamp assemblies have an orientation parallel to a bottom of the chamber body; and wherein the centerline of one of the first lamp assemblies is coaxial with a centerline of one of the second lamp assemblies. 21. The heated load lock chamber of claim 19, wherein the closed ends of the first lamp assemblies are aligned. 22. The heated load lock chamber of claim 19, wherein the closed ends of the first lamp assemblies are staggered. 23. The heated load lock chamber of claim 19, wherein the first lamp assemblies and the second lamp assemblies interleave. 24. The heated load lock chamber of claim 19, wherein the first lamp assemblies and the second lamp assemblies are arranged in orientation non-parallel to the wall of the chamber body from which the respective lamp assembly extends. 25. The heated load lock chamber of claim 24, wherein the first lamp assemblies and the second lamp assemblies interleave. 