A lateration system comprising at least one transmitter attached to a first object and configured to emit pulses, three or more receivers attached to at least one second object and configured to receive the pulses emitted by the transmitter, and a processor configured to process information received from the three or more receivers, and to generate a vector based on lateration. Lateration is one of multilateration and trilateration. The vector is used by the processor to constrain error growth in a navigation solution.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lateration system, the system comprising; at least one transmitter attached to a first object and configured to emit pulses; three or more receivers attached to at least one second object and configured to receive the pulses emitted by the transmitter; and a processor configured to process information received from the three or more receivers, and to generate a vector based on lateration, wherein lateration is one of multilateration and trilateration, wherein the vector is used by the processor to constrain error growth in a position measurement system. 2. The system of claim 1, where the transmitter is an ultrasonic transmitter and the receivers are ultrasonic receivers operably positioned to receive ultrasonic pulses emitted by the ultrasonic transmitter. 3. The system of claim 2, further comprising an inertial measurement unit configured to measure a change in position and a change in heading of the first object, the inertial measurement unit further configured to output information indicative of the change in position and the change in heading to the processor. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the lateration system generates a navigation solution based on the generated vector and the information indicative of a change in position and a change in heading. 5. The system of claim 3, further comprising a Kalman filter stored on a storage medium, wherein the processor executes the Kalman filter to filter vector information with the information indicative of a change in position and a change in heading so that the output from the inertial measurement unit constrains error growth in the generation of the vector. 6. The system of claim 3, further comprising a Kalman filter stored on a storage medium, wherein the processor executes the Kalman filter to filter vector information with the information indicative of a change in position and a change in heading so that the generation of the vector constrains error growth in the output from the inertial measurement unit. 7. The system of claim 3, wherein the first object is a first item of footwear and the at least one second object is a second item of footwear, the first and second item of footwear forming a pair of footwear, wherein the ultrasonic transmitter is positioned on the first item of footwear and the ultrasonic receivers are positioned on the second item of footwear, wherein each ultrasonic receiver is communicatively coupled to receive ultrasonic pulses from the ultrasonic transmitter. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the at least one ultrasonic transmitter is a first ultrasonic transmitter, and the vector is a first vector, the system further comprising: at least one second ultrasonic transmitter positioned on the second item of footwear; and three or more additional ultrasonic receivers positioned on the first item of footwear, wherein each additional ultrasonic receiver is communicatively coupled to receive ultrasonic pulses from a respective one of the at least one second ultrasonic transmitter, wherein the processor is further configured to process the information received from the three or more additional ultrasonic receivers, and to generate a second vector based on lateration, wherein the second vector is used by the processor to constrain error growth in the position measurement system, and wherein the first vector and the second vector are used by the processor to determine an orientation of the first item of footwear with respect to the second item of footwear. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is a second processor positioned in each at least one second object, and wherein each at least one transmitter is a first transmitter, the system further comprising: a first inertial measurement unit positioned in the first object, and the first inertial measurement unit configured to measure a change in position and a change in heading of the first object, the first inertial measurement unit further configured to output information indicative of the change in position and the change in heading to at least one first processor; at least one second inertial measurement unit positioned in a respective second object, and the at least one second inertial measurement unit configured to measure a change in position and a change in heading of the respective second object, the second inertial measurement unit further configured to output information indicative of the change in position and the change in heading to a second processor positioned in the respective second object; one or more second transmitters attached to the at least one second object, the one or more second transmitters configured to emit pulses; and three or more additional receivers attached to the first object, each additional receiver communicatively coupled to receive pulses emitted by the at least one second transmitter; the at least one first processor positioned in the first object, the first processor configured to process the information received from the three or more additional receivers attached to the first object, and to generate a vector based on lateration, wherein the vector generated by the first processor constrains error growth in a navigation solution of the first object, wherein the vector generated in each at least one second object constrains error growth in a navigation solution of the respective second object. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first and second objects comprise one of robot feet and robotic units. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the position measurement system measures a relative position between the first object and the second object. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the position measurement system measures an absolute position of at least one of the first object and the second object. 13. A method of operating a lateration system, the method comprising: receiving pulses emitted from at least one transmitter on a first object by at least three receivers positioned on at least one second object; receiving information indicative of receive-times from the at least three receivers positioned on the at least one second object; generating a vector by performing lateration calculations on the information indicative of receive-times, wherein the lateration is one of trilateration and multilateration; receiving information indicative of a change in position and a change in heading from an inertial measurement unit positioned on at least a portion of the lateration system; generating a navigation solution based on the generated vector and the information indicative of a change in position and a change in heading; and using the generated vector to constrain error growth. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein using the generated vector to constrain error growth comprises: using the generated vector to constrain error growth in an output from the inertial measurement unit. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein using the generated vector to contrain error growth comprises: using an output from the inertial measurement unit to constrain error growth in the generated vector. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein receiving information indicative of receive-times from the at least three receivers on the second object comprises receiving information indicative of receive-times from three ultrasonic receivers on the second object, and wherein generating a vector using lateration comprises generating a first vector using trilateration, the method further comprising: receiving information indicative of receive-times from three ultrasonic receivers positioned on the first object; generating a second vector by performing trilateration calculations on the information indicative of receive-times received from the three ultrasonic receivers positioned on the first object; and determining an orientation of the first object with respect to the second object based on the first vector and second vector. 17. The method of claim 13, wherein receiving information indicative of receive-times from the at least three receivers on at least one second object comprises: receiving information indicative of TDOA receive-times from at least four ultrasonic receivers on the second object, and wherein generating a vector using lateration comprises generating a first vector using multilateration, the method further comprising; receiving information indicative of TDOA receive-times from at least four ultrasonic receivers positioned on the first object; generating a second vector by performing multilateration calculations on the information indicative of receive-times received from the at least four ultrasonic receivers positioned on the first object; and determining an orientation of the first object with respect to the second object based on the first vector and second vector. 18. A personal navigation system comprising: at least one ultrasonic transmitter operably attached to a first item of footwear; at least three ultrasonic receivers operably attached to a second item of footwear, wherein the first item of footwear and the second item of footwear form a pair of footwear, the at least three ultrasonic receivers operably positioned to receive ultrasonic pulses emitted by the ultrasonic transmitter; an inertial measurement unit configured to generate information indicative of a change in position and a change in heading of at least one item of footwear; and a processor configured to receive information indicative of a receive-time from each of the at least three ultrasonic receivers and configured to use lateration to generate a vector between the first object and the second object based the information received from the ultrasonic receivers in order to constrain error growth in the inertial measurement unit, wherein lateration is one of multilateration and trilateration. 19. The personal navigation system of claim 18, further comprising: at least one ultrasonic transmitter operably attached to the second item of footwear; and at least three additional ultrasonic receivers operably attached to the first item of footwear, the at least three additional ultrasonic receivers operably positioned to receive ultrasonic pulses emitted by the second ultrasonic transmitter, wherein the processor is further configured to receive information indicative of a receive-time from each of the at least three additional ultrasonic receivers and configured to use lateration to generate a vector between the first object and the second object based the information received from the additional ultrasonic receivers in order to determine an orientation of the first item of footwear with respect to the second item of footwear. 20. The personal navigation system of claim 19, wherein the at least one ultrasonic transmitter comprises four ultrasonic transmitters operably attached to the first item of footwear, and wherein the at least three ultrasonic receivers comprise four ultrasonic receivers operably attached to the second item of footwear, the personal navigation system further comprising: four ultrasonic transmitters operably attached to the second item of footwear; and four ultrasonic receivers operably attached to the first item of footwear, wherein the lateration is multilateration. 