A medical instrument assembly comprises a shaft, a tool carried by the distal end of the shaft for performing a medical procedure on a patient, an end effector, a threaded housing in which the threaded distal shaft end is configured for being screwed, and a first threaded piece disposed in the threaded housing and configured for being moved to actuate the end effector. The assembly further comprises an actuation element extending within the shaft. The actuation element includes a second threaded piece that distally extends from the threaded distal shaft end. The second threaded piece is configured for being screwed to the first threaded piece. A robotic system comprises the assembly, a user interface configured for generating command(s), a drive unit coupled to the actuating element, and an electric controller configured, in response to the command(s), for directing the drive unit to move the actuating element to actuate the tool.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: an elongated shaft having a proximal end and a threaded distal end; a tool carried by the distal end of the elongated shaft for performing a medical procedure on a patient, the tool including an end effector, a threaded housing in which the threaded distal end of the shaft is configured for being screwed, and a first threaded piece disposed in the threaded housing and configured for being moved to actuate the end effector; and an actuation element extending within the elongated shaft, the actuation element including a second threaded piece that distally extends from the threaded distal end of the elongated shaft, the second threaded piece configured for being screwed to the first threaded piece of the tool. 2. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the first threaded piece has more threads per inch than the threads of the threaded housing. 3. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the first threaded piece is centered within the threaded housing. 4. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the end effector includes a pair of jaw members that open and close when actuated, and the tool further includes linkage coupled between the jaw members and the first threaded piece, such that axial movement of the actuating element opens and closes the jaw members. 5. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the second threaded piece is configured for being linearly displaced relative to the threaded distal end of the elongated shaft. 6. The medical instrument assembly of claim 5, wherein the actuating element includes a block proximal to the second threaded piece, and the threaded distal end of the elongated shaft includes a pair of arms configured for engaging the block to prevent the second threaded piece from rotating relative to the threaded distal end of the elongated shaft. 7. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the first threaded piece has female threads, and the second threaded piece has male threads. 8. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the elongated shaft is a cable. 9. The medical instrument assembly of claim 8, wherein the actuation element further includes a sleeve disposed about the cable to prevent compression of the cable. 10. The medical instrument assembly of claim 9, wherein the actuation element further includes a helical spring disposed about the respective sleeve. 11. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising: a controllably bendable section associated with elongated shaft and disposed proximal to the tool; another actuation element configured for actuating the controllably bendable section; and means for decoupling motion at the controllably bendable section from the tool actuation. 12. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising an instrument coupler mounted to the proximal end of the elongated shaft, the instrument coupler carrying a rotatable wheel to which the actuation element is mounted. 13. The medical instrument assembly of claim 12, further comprising an adapter coupler to which the instrument coupler is configured for being removably mated, the adapter coupler having a complementary wheel that mechanically interfaces with the wheel of the instrument coupler. 14. The medical instrument assembly of claim 13, further comprising cabling extending from the adapter coupler and configured for coupling a drive unit to the complementary wheel. 15. The medical instrument assembly of claim 12, further comprising a carriage on which the instrument coupler is mounted. 16. A robotic medical system, comprising: the medical instrument assembly of claim 1; a user interface configured for generating at least one command; a drive unit coupled to the actuating element of the medical instrument assembly; and an electric controller configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to move the actuating element to actuate the tool. 17. The robotic medical system of claim 16, wherein the at least one command comprise movements made at the user interface, and wherein the electric controller is configured for directing the drive unit to move the actuating element to effect movements of the tool corresponding to the movements at the user interface. 18. The robotic medical system of claim 16, wherein the user interface is located remotely from the drive unit. 19. The robotic medical system of claim 16, wherein the electrical controller is coupled to the drive unit via external cabling. 20. The robotic medical system of claim 16, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 21. The robotic medical system of claim 16, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the actuating element via external cabling. 