A subsea fitting is disclosed. The subsea fitting includes a body. The fitting includes at least two passages through the body. The passages are in fluid communication within the body. A diverter is located in at least one of the passages. The diverter may be movable between an open position and a closed position. In the open position, the diverter allows open flow between two of the passages. In the closed position, the diverter inhibits flow between the two passages.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A subsea fitting, comprising: a body; at least two passages through the body, wherein the passages are in fluid communication within the body; and a tubular diverter located lengthwise in one of the passages, wherein the tubular diverter fits snugly inside the passage such that fluid flows longitudinally from one end of the passage to the other end of the passage through the inside of the tubular diverter, wherein the tubular diverter rotates within the passage in which the tubular diverter is located during use, and wherein the tubular diverter comprises an opening in a portion of its wall; wherein the tubular diverter is rotated in the passage during use such that, when the opening in the wall of tubular diverter at least partially aligns with at least one other passage, there is open flow between the at least one other passage and the inside of the tubular diverter, and, when the opening in the wall of the tubular diverter is not aligned with at least one other passage, flow is inhibited between the at least one other passage and the inside of the tubular diverter. 2. The fitting of claim 1, wherein at least two of the passages are oriented relative to each other such that at least one of the passages is piggable in the reverse direction. 3. The fitting of claim 1, wherein at least two of the passages are oriented with an angle between the passages in a range from about 10.degree. to about 90.degree.. 4. The fitting of claim 1, wherein at least two of the passages are oriented symmetrically about a central axis. 5. The fitting of claim 1, wherein the tubular diverter is coupled to the body using a flange. 6. The fitting of claim 1, wherein the tubular diverter comprises orifices configured to allow at least some fluid flow between the passage in which the tubular diverter is located and at least one other passage that is not aligned with the opening in the tubular diverter to equalize pressure between the passages, and wherein the orifices are configured to inhibit object flow between the two passages. 7. The fitting of claim 1, wherein the tubular diverter is rotated using an ROV during use. 8. The fitting of claim 1, further comprising a drive hub coupled to the tubular diverter, wherein the drive hub is used to rotate the tubular diverter during use. 9. The fitting of claim 8, wherein the drive hub is coupled to one end of the passage in which the tubular diverter is located. 10. The fitting of claim 8, wherein the drive hub comprises teeth that engage teeth on the tubular diverter such that the drive mechanism is able to rotate the tubular diverter. 11. The fitting of claim 8, further comprising a gear coupled to the drive hub, wherein the gear moves the drive hub during use. 12. The fitting of claim 11, wherein the gear comprises teeth that engage teeth on the drive hub such that the gear moves the drive hub during use. 13. The fitting of claim 11, wherein the coupling between the gear and the drive hub is substantially sealed from external pressure. 14. The fitting of claim 11, wherein the gear is operable using a remotely operated vehicle (ROV). 15. The fitting of claim 11, further comprising a torque bucket coupled to the gear. 16. The fitting of claim 1, wherein the fitting is coupled to a subsea pipeline during use. 17. A subsea fitting, comprising: a body; a first passage through the body; a second passage through the body, wherein the second passage is in fluid communication with the first passage within the body; and a tubular diverter located lengthwise in the first passage, wherein the tubular diverter fits snugly inside the first passage such that fluid flows longitudinally from one end of the first passage to the other end of the passage through the inside of the tubular diverter, wherein the tubular diverter rotates within the first passage in which the tubular diverter is located during use, and wherein the tubular diverter comprises an opening in a portion of its wall; wherein the tubular diverter is rotated in the first passage during use such that, when the opening in the wall of tubular diverter at least partially aligns with the second passage, there is open flow between the second passage and the inside of the tubular diverter, and, when the opening in the wall of the tubular diverter is not aligned with the second passage, flow is inhibited between the second passage and the inside of the tubular diverter. 18. The fitting of claim 17, wherein one end of the first passage is a shared common end of the second passage. 19. The fitting of claim 17, wherein the first and second passages are oriented relative to each other such that at least one of the passages is piggable in the reverse direction. 20. The fitting of claim 17, wherein the first and second passages are oriented with an angle between the passages in a range from about 10.degree. to about 90.degree.. 21. The fitting of claim 17, wherein the first and second passages are oriented symmetrically about a central axis. 22. The fitting of claim 17, wherein the tubular diverter is coupled to the body using a flange. 23. The fitting of claim 17, wherein the tubular diverter comprises orifices configured to allow at least some fluid flow between the first passage and the second passage when the second passage is not aligned with the opening in the tubular diverter to equalize pressure between the passages, and wherein the orifices are configured to inhibit object flow between the two passages. 24. The fitting of claim 17, wherein the tubular diverter is rotated using an ROV during use. 25. The fitting of claim 17, further comprising a drive hub coupled to the tubular diverter, wherein the drive hub is used to rotate the tubular diverter during use. 26. The fitting of claim 25, wherein the drive hub is coupled to one end of the first passage. 27. The fitting of claim 25, wherein the drive hub comprises teeth that engage teeth on the tubular diverter such that the drive mechanism is able to rotate the tubular diverter. 28. The fitting of claim 25, further comprising a gear coupled to the drive hub, wherein the gear moves the drive hub during use. 29. The fitting of claim 28, wherein the gear comprises teeth that engage teeth on the drive hub such that the gear moves the drive hub during use. 30. The fitting of claim 28, wherein the coupling between the gear and the drive hub is substantially sealed from external pressure. 31. The fitting of claim 28, wherein the gear is operable using a remotely operated vehicle (ROV). 32. The fitting of claim 28, further comprising a torque bucket coupled to the gear. 33. The fitting of claim 17, wherein the fitting is coupled to a subsea pipeline during use. 