Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of C-reactive protein. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding C-reactive protein. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of C-reactive protein expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of C-reactive protein are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound 15 to 30 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding C-reactive protein, wherein said compound comprises at least an 8 nucleobase portion complementary to region 1361-1410 of SEQ ID NO: 3, and wherein said compound inhibits the expression of C-reactive protein. 2. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is an oligonucleotide. 3. The compound of claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The compound of claim 3, wherein the at least one modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate, phosphorodithioate, phosphotriester, aminoalkylphosphotriester, alkyl phosphonates, phosphinate, phosphoramidate, thionophosphoramidate, thionoalkylphosphonate, thionoalkylphosphotriester, selenophosphate, boranophosphate, morpholino, siloxane, sulfide, sulfoxide, sulfone, formacetyl, thioformacetyl, methylene formacetyl, riboacetyl, alkene-containing backbone, sulfamate, methyleneimino, methylenehydrazino, sulfonate, sulfonamide, or amide. 5. The compound of claim 4, wherein the at least one modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 6. The compound of claim 2, wherein all of the internucleoside linkages of the oligonucleotide are phosphorothioate linkages. 7. The compound of claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one 2' modified sugar moiety. 8. The compound of claim 7, wherein the at least one 2' modified sugar moiety is OH, halogen, O-alkyl, S-alkyl, N-alkyl, O-alkenyl, S-alkenyl, N-alkenyl, O-alkynyl, S-alkynyl, N-alkynyl, O-alkyl-O-alkyl, alkaryl, aralkyl, O-alkaryl or O-aralkyl, SH, SCH.sub.3, OCN, CN, CF.sub.3, OCF.sub.3, SOCH.sub.3, SO.sub.2CH.sub.3, ONO.sub.2, NO.sub.2, N.sub.3, NH.sub.2, heterocycloalkyl, heterocycloalkaryl, aminoalkylamino, polyalkylamino, substituted silyl, alkoxyalkoxy, dimethylaminooxyethoxy, allyl, or O-allyl, wherein the alkyl, alkenyl and alkynyl can be substituted or unsubstituted C.sub.1 to C.sub.10 alkyl or C.sub.2 to C.sub.10 alkenyl and alkynyl. 9. The compound of claim 8, wherein the at least one 2' modified sugar moiety is 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) (2'-MOE) sugar moiety. 10. The compound of claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 11. The compound of claim 10, wherein the at least one modified nucleobase is 5-methylcytosine, 5-hydroxymethyl cytosine, xanthine, hypoxanthine, 2-aminoadenine, 6-alkyladenine, 6-alkylguanine, 2-alkyladenine, 2-alkylguanine, 2-thiouracil, 2-thiothymine, 2-thiocytosine, 5-halouracil, 5-halocytosine, 5-alkynyluracil, 5-alkynylcytosine, 6-azouracil, 6-azo cytosine, 6-azo thymine, 5-uracil, 4-thiouracil, 8-haloadenine, 8-aminoadenine, 8-thioladenine, 8-thioalkyladenine, 8-hydroxyladenine, 8-haloguanine, 8-aminoguanine, 8-thiolguanine, 8-thioalkylguanine, 8-hydroxylguanine, 5-halo uracil, 5-halo cytosine, 7-methylguanine, 7-methyladenine, 2-F-adenine, 2-amino-adenine, 8-azaguanine, 8-azaadenine, 7-deazaguanine, 7-deazaadenine, 3-deazaguanine, 3-deazaadenine, phenoxazine cytidine, phenothiazine cytidine, G-clamp, carbazole cytidine, pyridoindole cytidine, 7-deaza adenine, 7-deaza guanosine, 2-aminopyridine, 2-pyridone, 2-aminopropyladenine, 5-propynyluracil, or 5-propynylcytosine. 12. The compound of claim 11, wherein the at least one modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 13. The compound of claim 2, wherein the oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 14. The compound of claim 13, wherein the chimeric oligonucleotide is a gapmer. 15. The compound of claim 14, wherein the gapmer comprises: a 5' wing segment; a 3' wing segment; and a gap segment positioned between said 5' wing segment and said 3' wing segment. 16. The compound claim 15, wherein each of said 5' wing segment and 3' wing segment comprise at least one 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) sugar moiety. 17. The compound of claim 16, wherein the 5' wing segment comprises five nucleobases and a phosphorothioate or phosphodiester internucleoside linkage, the 3' wing segment comprises five nucleobases and a phosphorothioate or phosphodiester internucleoside linkage, and the gap segment comprises ten nucleobases. 18. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is 20 nucleobases in length. 19. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is a salt. 20. The compound of claim 19, wherein the salt is a sodium, potassium, ammonium, magnesium, or calcium salt. 21. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is a duplexed nucleic acid molecule specifically hybridizable with an equal number of nucleobases selected from nucleotides 1361 to 1410 of SEQ ID NO:3. 22. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is an oligonucleotide 20 nucleobases in length, wherein the oligonucleotide comprises a gap segment of ten 2'-deoxynucleosides positioned between 5' and 3' wing segments of five 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl)-nucleotides, wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage, and wherein each cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine. 23. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier. 24. A compound comprising an oligonucleotide 20 nucleobases in length targeted to nucleotides 1361 to 1410 of a nucleic acid molecule encoding C-reactive protein (SEQ ID NO:3), wherein the oligonucleotide comprises a) a gap segment of ten linked deoxynucleosides, b) a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides c) a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' and 3' wing segments, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-(2-methoxyethyl) sugar, wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage, and wherein each cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine. 25. The compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO:3. 