A medical instrument assembly and robotic medical system are provided. The instrument assembly comprises coaxially disposed shafts, and a mechanically drivable interface to which the proximal ends of the shafts are mounted. The drivable interface has first and second actuating elements configured for independently axially rotating the shafts relative to each other, and a third actuating element configured for deflecting the distal end of one of the shafts. The robotic medical system comprises the instrument assembly, a user interface configured for generating at least one command, and a drive unit coupled to the drivable interface. The robotic medical system further comprises an electrical controller configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to drive the first and second actuating elements to independently axially rotate the shafts relative to each other, and to drive the third actuating element to deflect one of the shafts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: an inner elongated shaft having a proximal end and a distal end; an outer elongated shaft having a proximal end and a distal end, the inner shaft coaxially disposed within the outer shaft; and a mechanically drivable interface to which the proximal ends of the outer and inner shafts are mounted, the drivable interface having first and second actuating elements configured for independently axially rotating the inner and outer shafts relative to each other, and a third actuating element configured for deflecting the distal end of one of the inner and outer shafts. 2. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the inner shaft is flexible. 3. The medical instrument assembly of claim 2, wherein the outer shaft has first and second rigid sections and a flexible section located between the first and second rigid sections. 4. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the distal end of the one of the inner and outer shafts is the distal end of the outer shaft. 5. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising a cable extending along the one of the inner and outer shafts, wherein the third actuating element comprises a pulley that pulls the cable to effect the deflection of the distal end of the one of the inner and outer shafts. 6. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising an end effector carried by the distal end of the inner shaft for performing a medical procedure on patient, wherein the drivable interface has a fourth actuating element configured for actuating the end effector. 7. The medical instrument assembly of claim 6, further comprising a cable extending within the inner shaft, wherein the fourth actuating element comprises a pulley that pulls the cable to effect the actuation of the end effector. 8. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising a receiver to which the drivable interface is configured for being removably mated, the receiver configured for operably coupling a drive unit to the first, second, and third actuating elements. 9. The medical instrument assembly of claim 8, wherein the receiver has first, second, and third complementary actuating elements that respectively mechanically interface with the first, second, and third actuating elements of the drivable interface. 10. The medical instrument assembly of claim 9, wherein the first and second actuating element are pulleys, the first and second complementary actuating elements are complementary pulleys that respectively mechanically interface with the first and second pulleys, the third actuating element is a gear, and the third complementary actuating element is a complementary gear that mechanically interfaces with the gear. 11. The medical instrument assembly of claim 8, further comprising cabling extending from the receiver and configured for coupling the drive unit to the first, second, and third actuating elements. 12. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, further comprising a carriage on which the drivable interface is mounted. 13. A robotic medical system, comprising: a medical instrument assembly including an inner catheter, an outer catheter in which the inner catheter is coaxially disposed, and a mechanically drivable interface having first, second, and third actuating elements; a user interface configured for generating at least one command; a drive unit coupled to the drivable interface of the medical instrument assembly; and an electrical controller configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to drive the first and second actuating elements to independently axially rotate the inner and outer catheters relative to each other, and to drive the third actuating element to deflect one of the inner and outer catheters. 14. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the inner catheter is flexible. 15. The robotic medical system of claim 14, wherein the outer catheter has first and second rigid sections and a flexible section located between the first and second rigid sections. 16. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the one of the inner and outer catheters is the outer catheter. 17. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the medical instrument assembly further includes an end effector carried by inner catheter for performing a medical procedure on patient, wherein the drivable interface has a fourth actuating element, and the electrical controller is configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to drive the fourth actuating element to actuate the end effector. 18. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the medical instrument assembly further includes a receiver removably mated to the drivable interface, the receiver configured for operably coupling the drive unit to the first, second, and third actuating elements. 19. The robotic medical system of claim 18, wherein the receiver has first, second, and third complementary actuating elements that respectively mechanically interface with the first, second, and third actuating elements of the drivable interface. 20. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the medical instrument assembly further includes a carriage on which the drivable interface is slidably mounted. 21. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the user interface is located remotely from the drive unit. 22. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the drive unit has a motor array. 23. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the drivable interface via external cabling. 24. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the electrical controller is configured for directing the drive unit to drive the first, second, and third actuating elements to effect movements of the inner and outer catheters corresponding to movements at the user interface. 25. The robotic medical system of claim 13, wherein the electrical controller is coupled to the drive unit via external cabling. 