Systems and processes are provided for facilitating transfer of downhole devices through a reversibly sealable wellhead fixture capping a well under pressure, without jeopardizing operators, equipment, or the well itself. An open ended pressurizable vessel is provided that is sized and shaped to accommodate a substantial portion of a particular downhole device, such as a logging tool. The vessel includes a mating flange for coupling its open end to a reversibly sealable wellhead fixture. A pressure can be equalized between an internal cavity of the pressurizable vessel and the wellbore. Once the pressure has been equalized, a channel can be opened between the pressurizable vessel and the wellbore, allowing for transfer of the downhole device in a preferred direction, either into or out of the wellbore. One or more robotic systems can be provided to further expedite manipulation of at least one of the tool and the vessel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transferring a downhole device through a reversibly sealable wellhead fixture capping a well under pressure, comprising: providing a pressurizable vessel having an open end and defining a cavity therein configured to retain the downhole device; attaching the open end of the pressurizable vessel to the reversibly sealable wellhead fixture; opening the reversibly sealable wellhead fixture, providing access to the well under pressure; transferring the downhole device between the cavity of the pressurizable vessel and the well under pressure; sealing the reversibly sealable wellhead fixture with respect to the pressurizable vessel; and removing the pressurizable vessel from the open end of the well under pressure. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the act of attaching the open end of the pressurizable vessel to the reversibly sealable wellhead fixture comprises forming a pressure-tight coupling between the open end of the pressurizable vessel and the reversibly sealable wellhead fixture. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the act of transferring the downhole device comprises advancing the downhole device from the pressurizable vessel into an open end of the reversibly sealable wellhead fixture. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the act of transferring the downhole device comprises retrieving the downhole device from an open end of the reversibly sealable wellhead fixture and storing the downhole device within the cavity of the pressurizable vessel. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the act of transferring the downhole device comprises coupling one end of a wire to the downhole device and moving the coupled end of the wire along the wellbore axis. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising rotating a reel coupled to another end of the wire. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the act of transferring the downhole device comprises: providing at least two clamps disposed within the pressurizable vessel and spaced apart along a wellbore axis; clamping an adjacent outer surface of the downhole device with respect to the pressurizable vessel using a first one of the at least two clamps; translating the clamped first one of the at least two clamps along the wellbore axis with respect to a second one of the at least two clamps, translation of the clamped first one of the at least two clamps also translating the downhole device by a corresponding distance; clamping an adjacent outer surface of the downhole device with respect to the pressurizable vessel using a second one of the at least two clamps; and unclamping the first one of the at least two clamps, wherein translation of the first one of the at least two clamps translates the downhole device along the wellbore axis. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the act of clamping comprises controlling an actuator configured to adjust a respective one of the at least two clamps between clamped and unclamped positions. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprises sensing a clamping pressure exerted between at least one of the at least two clamps and at least one of the respective adjacent outer surface of the downhole device and an interior surface of the cavity. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the act of controlling the actuator further comprises adjusting a degree of clamping at least one of the at least two clamps responsive to the respectively sensed clamping pressure. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising attaching a distal end of a coil tube to a proximal end of the downhole device, the coil tube capable of transferring thrust to the proximal end of the downhole device for advancing the downhole device along an axis of the wellbore. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising elevating an internal pressure of the pressurizable vessel. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising returning an elevated internal pressure of the pressurizable vessel to atmospheric pressure. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transferring the pressurizable vessel between a transport location and the reversibly sealable wellhead fixture; and positioning the open end of the pressurizable vessel relative to an open end of the reversibly sealable wellhead fixture, wherein at least one of the acts of transferring or positioning is accomplished robotic ally. 15. An apparatus for transferring a downhole device across an open end of a well under pressure, comprising: a pressurizable vessel defining therein a cavity open at one end and configured to retain a downhole device; an operable seal positioned in relation to the open end of the cavity and operable to seal the cavity against an external pressure; a mounting flange configured to mount the pressurizable vessel to a reversibly sealable wellhead fixture capping a well under pressure; and a thrust unit disposed within the cavity and configured to transfer the downhole device between the cavity and the wellbore through the reversibly sealable wellhead fixture, wherein transfer of the downhole device is accomplishable at an elevated pressure. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the operable seal comprises at least one dynamic clamp operable between unclamped and clamped configurations, the at least one dynamic clamp configured to clamp an adjacent outer surface of the downhole device with respect to the pressurizable vessel. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the at least one dynamic clamp includes an annulus having an adjustable interior aperture fitted along an edge with a compliant material configured to form a sealing engagement between the interior aperture and the adjacent outer surface of the downhole device. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising at least one sensor configured to monitor a clamping pressure exerted between at the at least one dynamic clamp at least one of a respective adjacent outer surface of the downhole device and an interior surface of the cavity. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising an actuator configured to adjust the annulus between clamped and unclamped configurations. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a controller in communication with the at least one sensor and the actuator, the controller configured to adjust the interior aperture of the annulus to a clamped configuration sufficiently clamped to ensure a sealing engagement between the edge of the interior aperture and the respective adjacent outer surface of the downhole device. 21. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the actuator comprises: a rotatable reel; and a wire coupled between the rotatable reel and the downhole device, wherein transfer the downhole device is accomplishable by rotating the rotatable reel. 22. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the actuator comprises: at least two clamps disposed within the cavity of the pressurizable vessel and spaced apart along a wellbore axis, each of the at least two clamps independently controllable to clamp the downhole device with respect to the pressurizable vessel; and an actuator also disposed within the cavity and in communication with at least one of the at least two clamps, the actuator being configured to translate the at least one of the at least two clamps along the wellbore axis with respect to the other one of the at least two clamps, translation of the at least one of the at least two clamps also translating the downhole device when clamped thereto. 23. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a robotic manipulator for accomplishing at least one of transferring at least one of the pressurizable vessel and the downhole device between a storage location and the open end of the well under pressure, and positioning the at least one of the pressurizable vessel and the downhole device with respect to the open end of the well under pressure. 24. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a valve in fluid communication with the cavity of the pressurizable vessel, configured for adjusting a cavity pressure of the pressurizable vessel. 25. A system for transferring a downhole device across an open end of a well under pressure, comprising: a pressurizable vessel having a sealable end and defining a cavity therein configured to retain the downhole device; means for attaching the sealable end of the pressurizable vessel to the open end of the well under pressure; means for opening the sealable end of the pressurizable vessel with respect to the open end of the well under pressure; means for transferring the downhole device between the cavity of the pressurizable vessel and the open end of the well under pressure; means for sealing the open end of the well under pressure with respect to the pressurizable vessel; and means for removing the pressurizable vessel from the open end of the well under pressure, wherein transfer of the downhole device across the open end of the well under pressure is accomplishable without requiring the use of a derrick or mast. 26. A downhole cartridge device, comprising: a pressurizable vessel defining a cavity open at one end; an operable seal positioned in relation to the open end of the cavity and configurable between open and closed positions, the operable seal sealing the cavity against a pressure when configured in the closed position; a mounting flange disposed relative to the open end of the cavity, configured to mount the pressurizable vessel to an open end of a well under pressure; and a downhole device disposed within the cavity of the pressurizable vessel; an actuator disposed within the cavity of the pressurizable vessel and configured to transfer the downhole device between the cavity and the open end of the well under pressure, wherein transfer the downhole device is accomplishable in a pressurized environment having a pressure elevated from atmospheric pressure. 27. The cartridge device of claim 26, wherein the downhole device is a logging tool. 28. The cartridge device of claim 26, wherein the actuator comprises a rotatable reel and a wire coupled between the rotatable reel and the downhole device, translation of the downhole device being accomplished by rotation of the rotatable reel. 29. The cartridge device of claim 26, wherein the actuator comprises: at least two clamps disposed within the cavity of the pressurizable vessel and spaced apart along a wellbore axis, each clamp independently controllable to clamp the downhole device with respect to the pressurizable vessel; and an actuator in communication with at least one of the at least two clamps, configured to translate the at least one of the at least two clamps along the wellbore axis with respect to the other one of the at least two clamps. 30. The cartridge device of claim 29, further comprising a respective actuator for each of the at least two clamps, each actuator adapted to operate a respective one of the at least two clamps between clamped and unclamped positions. 31. The cartridge device of claim 26, wherein the operable seal comprises a dynamic peripheral clamp operable between unclamped and clamped configurations, the dynamic peripheral clamp configured to clamp a periphery of the downhole device when in the clamped configuration. 32. The cartridge device of claim 31, wherein the dynamic peripheral clamp includes an adjustable annulus fitted along an interior edge with a compliant material configured to form a sealing engagement between the annulus and the periphery of the downhole device. 33. The cartridge device of claim 32, further comprising a sensor configured to monitor an indication of the sealing engagement between the annulus and the periphery of the downhole device. 34. The cartridge device of claim 26, wherein the mounting flange configured to mount the pressurizable vessel to at least one of: a wellhead; a blowout preventor; and a configuration of valves otherwise known as a Christmas tree. 35. The cartridge device of claim 26, further comprising a valve in fluid communication with the cavity of the pressurizable vessel, configured for adjusting a cavity pressure of the pressurizable vessel. 