A method for generation of a sequence of operations for a manufacturing process including modeling the manufacturing process through a finite state machine to create a sequence of operations generator operative to generate a list of sequences of operations for the manufacturing process and utilizing the sequence of operations generator to input process information and automatically generate a list of sequences of operations.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for generating a sequence of operations for a manufacturing process, comprising: monitoring process information describing work elements that can be performed by a plurality of workstations within said manufacturing process; modeling within a control module said manufacturing process based upon said process information through a finite state machine to create a sequence of operations generator generating a list of sequences of operations comprising sequences of the work elements for the plurality of workstations for said manufacturing process; and utilizing said sequence of operations generator to input said process information and automatically generate said list of sequences of operations. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising optimizing said list of sequences of operations through a set of priorities to select an optimized sequence of operations. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said manufacturing process is a discrete manufacturing process. 4. A method for generating a sequence of operations for a manufacturing process, comprising: modeling within a control module said manufacturing process through a finite state machine to create a sequence of operations generator generating a list of sequences of operations for said manufacturing process, said modeling comprising: modeling automata describing behaviors of various components of said manufacturing process, said automata collectively describing the behavior of said manufacturing process through automata outputs; processing said automata outputs through prioritized synchronous composition to create a complete solution state set; reducing said complete solution state set to a conforming solution state set through a trim algorithm; extracting a marked language set from said conforming solution state set; and translating said marked language set into said list of sequences of operations; and utilizing said sequence of operations generator to input process information and automatically generate said list of sequences of operations. 5. The method of claim 4, said modeling automata comprising estimating the effects of process factors including at least one of mechanical layout data, device specifications, and human operator performance. 6. The method of claim 4, said modeling automata comprising estimating the effects of product specific information tracking a plurality of products on in a single manufacturing process. 7. The method of claim 4, said modeling said manufacturing process further comprising optimizing said automata outputs prior to said processing, said optimizing comprising modifying said automata outputs according to manufacturing priorities and lessons learned. 8. The method of claim 4, said reducing comprising: applying a breadth-first search method to said complete solution state set starting with an initial state to identify all possible directly reachable relationships for each state of said complete solution state set and recording said directly reachable relationships; applying said breadth-first search method to said complete solution state set starting with target states to identify all possible directly co-reachable relationships for each state of said complete solution state set and recording said directly co-reachable relationships; and compiling said directly reachable relationships and said directly co-reachable relationships, recording in said conforming solution state set portions of said complete solution state set fitting both said directly reachable relationships and said directly co-reachable relationships. 9. The method of claim 4, said extracting comprising: applying a depth-first search method to said conforming solution state set; identifying language operative to solve said finite state machine by connecting an initial state to a target state; and marking all identified language into a marked language set. 10. A method for generation of a sequence of operations for a manufacturing process in a motor vehicle manufacturing facility, comprising: monitoring process information describing work elements that can be performed by a plurality of workstations within said manufacturing process; modeling within a control module said manufacturing process based upon said process information through a finite state machine to create a sequence of operations generator generating a list of sequences of operations comprising sequences of the work elements for the plurality of workstations for said manufacturing process; and utilizing said sequence of operations generator to input said process information and automatically generate said list of sequences of operations. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising optimizing said list of sequences of operations through a set of priorities to select an optimized sequence of operations. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein said manufacturing process is a discrete manufacturing process. 13. A method for generation of a sequence of operations for a manufacturing process in a motor vehicle manufacturing facility, comprising: modeling within a control module said manufacturing process through a finite state machine to create a sequence of operations generator for generating a list of sequences of operations for said manufacturing process, said modeling comprising: modeling automata describing behaviors of various components of said manufacturing process, said automata collectively describing the behavior of said manufacturing process through automata outputs; processing said automata outputs through prioritized synchronous composition to create a complete solution state set; reducing said complete solution state set to a conforming solution state set through a trim algorithm; extracting a marked language set from said conforming solution state set; and translating said marked language set into said list of sequences of operations; and utilizing said sequence of operations generator to input process information and automatically generate said list of sequences of operations. 14. The method of claim 13, said modeling automata comprising estimating the effects of process factors including at least one of mechanical layout data, device specifications, and human operator performance. 15. The method of claim 13, said modeling automata comprising estimating the effects of product specific information operative to track a plurality of products on in a single manufacturing process. 16. The method of claim 13, said modeling said manufacturing process further comprising optimizing said automata outputs prior to said processing, said optimizing comprising modifying said automata outputs according to manufacturing priorities and lessons learned. 17. The method of claim 13, said reducing comprising: applying a breadth-first search method to said complete solution state set starting with an initial state to identify all possible directly reachable relationships for each state of said complete solution state set and recording said directly reachable relationships; applying said breadth-first search method to said complete solution state set starting with target states to identify all possible directly co-reachable relationships for each state of said complete solution state set and recording said directly co-reachable relationships; and compiling said directly reachable relationships and said directly co-reachable relationships, recording in said conforming solution state set portions of said complete solution state set fitting both said directly reachable relationships and said directly co-reachable relationships. 18. The method of claim 13, said extracting comprising: applying a depth-first search method to said conforming solution state set; identifying language operative to solve said finite state machine by connecting an initial state to a target state; and marking all identified language into a marked language set. 