Embodiments of the present invention provide a media library controller that can communicate with multiple physical libraries that are physically separate from each other. The media library controller can maintain a virtualized aggregate media library representing the physical media libraries with which it is in communication. From the physical media libraries, the media library controller can establish a virtual media library and associate a host with the virtual media library. The virtual media library can represent the portions of a physical media library to which the host is allowed access.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A controller for controlling access to media libraries, said controller comprising: a host interface to connect to one or more hosts via a transport medium; one or more storage interfaces to connect to a plurality of physically separate media libraries over one or more additional transport mediums; a computer processor; a computer memory coupled to the computer processor, the computer memory storing a set of computer instructions executable by the computer processor to: associate hosts with virtual media libraries that map to media library components at physically separate media libraries; receive a command from the host, wherein the command references a first virtual media slot and a first virtual drive of a first virtual media library, wherein the first virtual media slot maps to a first physical media slot at first physical media library and the first virtual drive maps to a first physical drive at a second physical media library that is physically separate from the first physical media library such that media cannot be automatically passed between the first physical media library and the second physical media library; and forward the command to the first physical media library, wherein the forwarded command references the first physical media slot and a second physical drive at the first physical media library to redirect the command from the first physical drive to the second physical drive. 2. The controller of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to forward the command to the first physical media library by: forwarding a first portion of the command to the second physical drive; and forwarding a second portion of the command to a physical robot at the first physical media library that references a physical element number for the first physical media slot and a physical element for the second physical drive. 3. The controller of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to continue redirecting commands from the host from the first physical drive to the second physical drive until a tape cartridge is removed from the second physical drive. 4. The controller of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further executable to present to a plurality of hosts virtual media libraries that map to physical media slots, drives and robots at a plurality of media libraries. 5. The controller of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further executable to maintain a virtual aggregate media library mapped to physical media slots, robots and drives of the plurality of physical media libraries including the first and second physical media libraries. 6. The controller of claim 5, wherein the virtual media libraries with which hosts are associated are portions of the virtual aggregate media library. 7. A system for controlling access to media libraries, comprising computer instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium and executable by a computer processor to: associate hosts with virtual media libraries that map to media library components at physically separate media libraries; receive a command from a host at a media library controller, wherein the command references a virtual media slot representing a physical media slot at a first physical media library and a virtual drive representing a first physical drive at a second physical media library physically separate from the first physical media library such that media cannot be automatically passed from the first physical media library to the second physical media library; and forward the command to the first physical media library, wherein the forwarded command references the first physical media slot and a second physical drive at the first physical media library to redirect the command from the first physical drive to the second physical drive. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to: map the command to the physical media slot at the first physical media library; and map the command to a physical robot at the first physical media library. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to forward the command to the first physical media library by: forwarding a first portion of the command to the second physical drive; and forwarding a second portion of the command to a physical robot at the first physical media library. 10. The system of claim 7, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to continue to redirect commands from the first physical drive to the second physical drive until a tape cartridge is removed from the second physical drive. 11. The system of claim 7, wherein the first physical drive is also located at the first physical media library. 12. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions are further executable to present to the hosts the virtual media libraries that map to physical media slots, drives and robots at a plurality of media libraries. 13. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions are further executable to maintain a virtual aggregate media library mapped to physical media slots, robots and drives of the plurality of physical media libraries including the first and second physical media libraries. 14. The system of claim 7, wherein the virtual media libraries with which hosts are associated are portions of the virtual aggregate media library. 15. A method of controlling access to media libraries, comprising: associating at a media library controller hosts with virtual media libraries representing components at physically separate media libraries that cannot pass media to each other; receiving a command from a host at the media library controller, wherein the command references a virtual media slot representing a first physical media slot at a first physical media library and a virtual drive representing a first physical drive at a second physical media library, physically separate from the first physical media library; redirecting the command from the first physical drive to a second physical drive at the first physical media library; and forwarding the command to the first physical media library. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: associating the host with a virtual media library that represents at least a portion of the first physical media library and at least a portion of a second physical media library to which the host has access. 17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: mapping the command to the physical media slot at the first physical media library; and mapping the command to a physical robot at the first physical media library. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein forwarding the command to the first physical media library further comprises: forwarding a first portion of the command to the second drive; and forwarding a second portion of the command to a physical robot at the first physical media library. 19. The method of claim 15, further comprising continuing to redirect commands from the first physical drive to the second physical drive until a tape cartridge is removed from the second physical drive. 20. The method of claim 16, further comprising presenting to a plurality of hosts virtual media libraries that map to physical media slots, drives and robots at a plurality of media libraries. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising maintaining at the media library controller a virtual aggregate media library mapped to the physical media slots, robots and drives of the plurality of physical media libraries including the first and second physical media libraries. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the virtual media libraries with which hosts are associated are portions of the virtual aggregate media library. 23. A system of controlling access to media libraries comprising; a network; a host in communication with said network, the host configured to send data operation commands to a media library; a first physical media library; a second physical media library physically separate from the first media library such that the second physical media library cannot automatically pass media to the first physical media library; a media library controller in communication with said network and said first and second physical media libraries, said controller comprising: a computer processor; one or more communications interfaces coupled to said computer processor operable to communicate with said network and said first and second physical media libraries; a computer memory coupled to the computer processor, the computer memory storing a set of computer instructions executable by the computer processor to: associate the host with a virtual media library that represents at least a portion of the first physical media library and a portion of the second physical media library to which the host has access; receive a command from the host, wherein the command references a virtual media slot representing a physical media slot at the first physical media library and a virtual drive representing a physical drive at the second physical media library; redirect the command from the physical drive at the second physical media library to a physical drive at the first physical media library; and forward the command to the first physical media library. 24. The system of claim 23, wherein the computer instructions are further executable to: map the command to the physical drive at the first media library; map the command to the physical media slot at the first media library; and map the command to a robot at the first physical media library. 