A method of building a tire carcass onto a toroidally expanded building drum core is disclosed which comprises: transferring a breaker and tread package to a mold; loading the tire carcass at diameter D1 into the mold; toroidally expanding the tire carcass to a second diameter D2 wherein the tire carcass and the breaker and tread package form an uncured tire assembly; curing the uncured tire assembly to form a cured tire in the mold; and removing the cured tire from the mold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of building an uncured tire assembly onto a toroidally expanded building drum core, the method comprising the steps of: forming a toroidally shaped uncured tire carcass by applying the carcass components onto a cover of the toroidally expanded building drum core at a first diameter D.sub.1, the first diameter D.sub.1 of the cover dimensioned less than a final inner diameter of the tire carcass while rigidly supporting the sides of the cover with a pair of internal side support mechanisms; expanding the cover radially into an expanded cover by an amount less than five (5) percent greater than the diameter D.sub.1; and subsequent to expanding the cover radially by an amount less than five (5) percent greater than the diameter D.sub.1, applying a belt reinforcing structure or a tread and belt reinforcing structure onto the carcass component on the expanded cover to form an uncured tire assembly. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: curing the uncured tire assembly in a tire curing mold; removing the cured tire assembly from the mold; collapsing the toroidally expanded building drum core; and removing the cured tire assembly from the collapsed core. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of collapsing the toroidally expanded building drum core includes the steps of: axially increasing the spacing between the rigidly supported sides and radially lowering the internal side support mechanisms. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of lowering the internal side support mechanisms includes the step of pivotally moving hinged elements of the internal side support mechanisms. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein expanding the cover of the building drum core radially by an amount less than five (5) percent greater than D.sub.1 is to a second outer diameter D.sub.2 representing a final inner diameter of the tire carcass; and applying a belt reinforcing structure or a tread and belt reinforcing structure onto the carcass component on the cover is at the second outer diameter D.sub.2. 