A system for controlling a swarm that includes a plurality of autonomous objects may include a processing system and a controller. The processing system may compute the primitives to be applied to each pair of objects in the swarm, and may combine the primitives to generate higher-level primitives. The processing system may generate a graph of the computed primitives, and identify the cliques in the graph. The controller may cause the primitives to be applied between each pair of objects in the swarm, and cause each object to maximize its respective set of primitives so as to induce the desired group behavior. The controller may detect the desired group behavior in the swarm by monitoring the primitives computed by the processing system and the cliques identified by the processing system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for controlling a swarm that includes a plurality N of autonomous objects, the system comprising: a processing system configured to compute one or more primitives to be applied to pairs of objects in the swarm, and to combine the primitives for multiple of the pairs of the objects in order to generate higher-level primitives that can result in a desired group behavior of the objects; the processing system further configured to generate a graph of the computed primitives, and identify one or more cliques in the graph; wherein each primitive is a local, pairwise relationship between two objects in the swarm; and a controller configured to cause the one or more computed primitives to be applied between each pair of objects in the swarm, and to cause each object to maximize its respective set of primitives so as to induce the desired group behavior by the objects, the controller further configured to detect the desired group behavior in the swarm by monitoring the primitives computed by the processing system and the cliques identified by the processing system. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the graph includes a plurality N of nodes, each node representing one of the objects, and wherein the edges in the graph represent the interactions between the nodes; and wherein each one of the cliques is a subset of the nodes in which the primitives hold between all pairs of the nodes in the subset, and all the nodes in the subset are connected to each other. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing system is further configured to generate a mathematical activity model A=(S, {O}, N.sub.T) of the desired group behavior; wherein A represents the mathematical activity model of the desired group behavior; {O} represents a set of objects participating in the modeled activity, at all times t within a time interval defined by the relation: t=T-N.sub.T, . . . , T; S represents a set S={S.sub.k(,,t)}.sub.k=1.sup.N.sup.S of N.sub.S primitives that hold true for the objects {O}; and wherein .function..A-inverted..di-elect cons..A-inverted..di-elect cons..times. ##EQU00005## and T is a current point in time. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the processing system is further configured to generate an M.sub.t.times.M.sub.t relational matrix R.sub.kt from each primitive S.sub.k(O.sub.i, O.sub.j, t); wherein the (i,j)th element of the matrix is defined by: R.sub.kt(i,j)=S(O.sub.i,O.sub.j,t), where M.sub.t represents a total number of objects observed at a time t; and wherein the processing system is further configured to generate N.sub.S relational matrices {R.sub.kt}.sub.k=1.sup.N.sup.S at time instance t from a number N.sub.S of primitives in an activity model A.sub.m, each of the N.sub.S relational matrices having a same dimensionality M.sub.t.times.M.sub.t. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the processing system is further configured to detect the cliques by performing relational clustering to find one or more clusters of objects in a multi-dimensional graph defined by said N.sub.s relational matrices {R.sub.kt}. 6. The system of claim 3, wherein the processing system is further configured to detect the cliques by performing a spectral graph clique analysis. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the processing system is further configured to perform the spectral graph clique analysis by selecting the nodes represented by the k largest elements in the eigenvector of R.sub.t corresponding to the second largest eigenvalue .lamda..sub.2 of the relational matrices; and wherein for a clique of size k and a matrix of order n, .lamda..sub.2 satisfies a mathematical relationship given by: .ltoreq..lamda..ltoreq. ##EQU00006## 8. The system of claim 3, wherein the processing system is further configured to compute the cliques of the graph by computing a cluster coefficient of the graph. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the processing system is further configured to compute a cluster coefficient for a vertex v.sub.i, using a mathematical formula given by: .function..times..times..di-elect cons. ##EQU00007## where e.sub.ij represents the (i,j)-th edge in the graph, and N.sub.i represents the i-th neighborhood in the graph; and wherein the cluster coefficient C.sub.i for a vertex v.sub.i is the proportion of links between the vertices within a neighborhood of the vertex v.sub.i divided by the total possible number of links between the vertices within that neighborhood. 10. The system of claim 3, wherein the processing system is further configured to compute a cluster coefficient for the graph by first computing a cluster coefficient for each vertex in the graph, then calculating an average of the cluster coefficients for everyone of the vertices in the graph; and wherein the cluster coefficient for each node indicates a number of neighboring nodes that are connected to that node. 11. The system of claim 3, wherein a set of the pairwise primitives comprise one or more of: moving-closer; moving-apart; close-to; next-to; facing-towards; facing-away; facing-same-direction; and same-speed. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the desired group behavior comprises crowd formation; and wherein the processing system is further configured to generate an activity model A.sub.cf for crowd formation using a set S.sub.cf of primitives defined by: S.sub.cf={moving-closer, close-to facing-towards}. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the desired group behavior comprises at least one of: crowd formation; crowd dispersion; and a flow. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the objects in the swarm comprise robots. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the robots are configured to inspect mechanical systems. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein the controller is further configured to cause each of the robots to communicate with its nearest neighbors through radio signals that allow the receiving robot to acquire a sense of the spatial direction of the robot that sent the radio signals. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the controller is further configured to determine, from the radio signals received by one of the robots, whether that robot is substantially in plane with respect to its nearest neighbors, or whether it is substantially out of plane with respect to its nearest neighbors. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the controller is configured to determine the presence of a high spatial frequency when a clique of robots are all out of plane with respect to each other, and wherein the controller is further configured to command the robots to draw closer to each other when such a high spatial frequency is detected. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the processing system includes an image processor configured to process an image of a shape of an object on which the swarm of robots is moving, said image being formed when the swarm has reached a static state and all of the robots have communicated their relative positions to one of the robots that is in communication with the outside world; and wherein the processing system is further configured to perform non-uniform sampling of said image in order to extract information about the shape of said object. 20. The system of claim 1, wherein at least some of the objects comprise fixed implanted agents whose locations are known. 21. A method of controlling a swarm that includes a plurality of autonomous objects, the method comprising: inducing a desired group behavior of the objects, by causing one or more primitives to be applied to each one of the pairs of objects in the swarm, wherein each primitive is a local, pairwise relationship between a pair of the objects in the swarm, then combining the primitives for multiple of the pairs of the objects to generate higher-level primitives that result in the behavior of the objects; and detecting the desired group behavior by computing the primitives between all the pairs of the objects in the swarm, generating a graph of the computed primitives, and detecting one or more cliques in the graph so as to indicate a presence of the desired group behavior and to identify the objects that participate in the desired group behavior. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the graph includes a plurality of nodes, each node representing one of the objects, wherein the edges in the graph represent the interactions between the nodes; and wherein each one of the cliques is a subset of the nodes in which the primitives hold between all pairs of the nodes in the subset, and all of the nodes in the subset are connected to each other. 23. The method of claim 21, wherein a mathematical representation of the desired group behavior comprises A=(S, {O}, N.sub.T), wherein A represents a model of a group activity; {O} represents a set of objects participating in the modeled activity, at all times t within a time interval of length N.sub.T; and S represents a set S={S.sub.k(,,t)}.sub.k=1.sup.N.sup.S of N.sub.S primitives that hold true for the objects {O}; and wherein .function..A-inverted..di-elect cons..A-inverted..di-elect cons..times. ##EQU00008## and T is a current point in time. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein each primitive Sk(Oi, OJ, t,) generates an M.sub.t.times.M.sub.t symmetric matrix R.sub.kt whose (i,j)th element is defined by: R.sub.kt(i, j)=S(O.sub.i, O.sub.j, t), where M.sub.t represents a total number of objects observed at a time t; wherein a number N.sub.S of primitives in an activity model A.sub.m generates N.sub.S relational matrices {R.sub.kt}.sub.k=.sup.N.sup.S at a time point t, each relational matrix having a same dimensionality M.sub.t.times.M.sub.t; and wherein the act of detecting the cliques comprises performing relational clustering by finding one or more clusters of objects in a multi-dimensional graph defined by Ns relational matrices {R.sub.kt}. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the act of detecting the cliques comprises performing a spectral graph clique analysis. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the act of performing the spectral graph clique analysis comprises selecting the nodes represented by the k largest elements in the eigenvector of R.sub.t, corresponding to .lamda..sub.2; and wherein for a clique of size k and a matrix of size k, .lamda..sub.2 satisfies a mathematical relationship given by: .ltoreq..lamda..ltoreq. ##EQU00009## 27. The method of claim 23, wherein the act of detecting the cliques of the graph comprises computing a cluster coefficient of the graph. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the act of computing a cluster coefficient for the graph comprises computing a cluster coefficient for each vertex in the graph, then calculating an average of the cluster coefficients for everyone of the vertices in the graph; and wherein the cluster coefficient for each of the nodes indicates a number of neighboring nodes that are connected to that node. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the cluster coefficient for a vertex v.sub.i, is the proportion of links between the vertices within a neighborhood of the vertex v.sub.i divided by the total possible number of links between the vertices within the neighbor hood, and is defined mathematically by: .function..times..times..di-elect cons. ##EQU00010## where e.sub.ij, represents the (i,j)-th edge in the graph, and N.sub.i represents the i-th neighborhood in the graph. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the objects in the swarm comprise robots. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein at least some of the robots are configured to inspect one or more mechanical systems. 32. The method of claim 21, wherein the desired group behavior comprises at least one of: crowd formation; crowd dispersion; and a flow. 33. The method of claim 21, further comprising the act of implanting at least some fixed objects whose locations are known. 34. The method of claim 21, wherein the act of inducing the desired group behavior in the swarm comprises causing each of the objects in the swarm to maximize its respective set of primitives. 35. The method of claim 21, wherein the act of causing one or more primitives to be applied to each one of the N.times.N pairs of objects in the swarm comprises selecting the one or more primitives from a set of pairwise primitives that comprises: moving-closer; moving-apart; close-to; next-to; facing-towards; facing-away; facing-same-direction; and same-speed. 36. The method of claim 35, further comprising the act of causing each one of the robots to communicate with its nearest neighbors through radio signals that allows the receiving robot to acquire a sense of the spatial direction of the robotic device that sent the radio signals. 37. The method of claim 36, further comprising the act of determining, from the radio signals received by one of the robots from its neighbors, whether that robot is substantially in plane with respect to its nearest neighbors, or whether it is substantially out of plane with respect to its nearest neighbors. 38. The method of claim 37, further comprising the acts of: determining the presence of a high spatial frequency when a clique of robots are all out of plane with respect to each other, and causing the robots to draw closer to each other when such a high spatial frequency is detected. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein an image is formed of a shape of an object on which the swarm of robots is moving, when the swarm reaches a static state and all of the robots have communicated their relative positions to one of the robots that is in communication with the outside world; and further comprising the act of performing non-uniform sampling of the image of the shape of said object in order to extract information about the shape of said object. 