Systems and methods for modifying a virtual object stored within a computer. The systems and methods allow virtual object modifications that are otherwise computationally inconvenient. The virtual object is represented as a volumetric representation. A portion of the volumetric model is converted into an alternative representation. The alternative representation can be a representation having a different number of dimensions from the volumetric representations. A stimulus is applied to the alternative representation, for example by a user employing a force-feedback haptic interface. The response of the alternative representation to the stimulus is calculated. The change in shape of the virtual object is determined from the response of the alternative representation. The representations of the virtual object can be displayed at any time for the user. The user can be provided a force-feedback response. Multiple stimuli can be applied in succession. Multiple alternative representations can be employed in the system and method.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for warping a three-dimensional virtual object, the system comprising: (a) a meshing module that creates an editable mesh corresponding to a portion of a surface of a three-dimensional virtual object; (b) an analytic module that modifies the editable mesh in response to a stimulus; and (c) a warping module that warps the three-dimensional virtual object to accommodate the modified editable mesh while substantially maintaining surface detail over the warped portion. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the portion of the surface of the three-dimensional virtual object in (a) is user-selected. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the portion in (a) is selected using a paint mechanism of a graphical user interface. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the stimulus comprises a user command. 5. The system of claim 4, wherein the user command comprises a manipulation of a user interface device. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the user interface device comprises at least one of a mouse, a computer keyboard, a touch screen, and a haptic interface device. 7. The system of claim 4, wherein the user command comprises a selection of a point of the editable mesh and a manipulation of the point in three-dimensional space. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the analytic module modifies the editable mesh to maintain a surface that is fixed along its periphery and that contains the selected point. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the analytic module modifies the editable mesh between its periphery and the selected point according to a falloff parameter. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the analytic module modifies the editable mesh to define a peaked volume in response to a directional manipulation of the selected point of the editable mesh. 11. The system of claim 4, wherein the analytic module modifies the editable mesh according to multiple user commands. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the editable mesh comprises at least one member of the group consisting of a polygonal set, a b-spline surface, a bezier surface, a procedural surface, and a NURBS representation. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the editable mesh is visually differentiated from a surrounding portion of the surface of the virtual object. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional virtual object comprises a volumetric representation of an object. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein the volumetric representation is a voxel-based representation. 