A system and method operative in accordance with the present disclosure facilitate storage and retrieval of individual or discrete samples of biological, non-biological, and chemical material stored on dry media. Sample material may be disposed upon or within a porous or solid (i.e., non-porous) sample storage medium and subsequently archived in, and retrieved from, storage elements such as multi-well plates, for example, using robotic devices or other automated apparatus. The disclosed system and method enable ejection of sample material from a sealed storage element into a specific well of a multi-well daughter plate, or into a specific cuvette, test tube, or similar container. In some embodiments, a sample carrier comprising a storage medium may be punched or ejected through a first seal of the storage element with an apparatus or implement such as a disposable piercing tip, for instance, inserted through a second seal of the storage element.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of retrieving an archived biological sample, comprising: aligning an ejector with a container in a storage system, wherein said container comprises: a reception opening and an ejection opening, a first film sealing the ejection opening of said container; and a sample carrier operative for dry storage of a biological sample comprising polynucleotides, proteins, or a combination thereof, wherein the reception opening of said container is configured to receive said sample carrier, wherein the ejection opening of said container is configured to allow ejection of said sample carrier, and wherein said sample carrier is contained in said container and comprises an archived biological sample; inserting said ejector through the reception opening of said container; engaging said sample carrier contained in said container with said ejector; and ejecting said sample carrier from said container through said ejection opening. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said storage system comprises a plurality of containers and wherein said method further comprises identifying a location of a target container in said storage system. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said identifying and said aligning further comprise utilizing a signal received from a transceiver co-located with said sample carrier. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said transceiver is activated by radio frequency energy. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said transceiver is activated by optical energy. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said inserting comprises piercing a film sealing said reception opening. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said ejecting comprises piercing a film sealing said ejection opening. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a daughter plate to receive said sample carrier responsive to said ejecting. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising re-wetting said sample carrier. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said re-wetting comprises adding water or a buffer. 11. An archive system comprising: a receptacle having a support surface; a plurality of storage systems, wherein said storage systems are arranged on said support surface and each of said storage systems comprises: a container having a reception opening and an ejection opening, a first film sealing the ejection opening of said container; and a sample carrier operative for dry storage of a biological sample comprising polynucleotides, proteins, or a combination thereof, wherein the reception opening of said container is configured to receive said sample carrier, wherein the ejection opening of said container is configured to allow ejection of said sample carrier, and wherein said sample carrier is contained in said container; and an ejector apparatus operative to: align an ejector with said container in a selected one of said plurality of storage systems; insert said ejector through said reception opening in said container; engage said sample carrier contained in said container with said ejector; and eject said sample carrier from said container through said ejection opening. 12. The archive system of claim 11, further comprising a handling apparatus operative to engage selected ones of said plurality of storage systems. 13. The archive system of claim 12, wherein the handling apparatus is further operative to identify a selected one of said plurality of storage systems. 14. The archive system of claim 13, wherein said identifying comprises reading a bar code. 15. The archive system of claim 11, wherein each of said plurality of storage systems is oriented on end on said support surface. 16. The archive system of claim 11, wherein said plurality of storage systems is arranged into one or more stacks on said support surface. 17. The archive system of claim 11, wherein said ejector apparatus is further operative to replace a portion of said ejector after ejection of said sample carrier. 18. The archive system of claim 11, wherein said ejector apparatus is further operative to replace said ejector after ejection of said sample carrier. 19. The archive system of claim 11, wherein said ejector includes a piercing tip and said ejector apparatus is further operative to replace said piercing tip. 20. The archive system of claim 11, wherein said ejector apparatus is further operative to replace said ejector from a plurality of pre-cut ejectors. 