A media supply cartridge includes a media case having a molded top half and a molded bottom half, both halves defining arcuate slots; a media roll assembly rotatably provided within the media case, the media roll assembly having a shaft received in the arcuate slots of the media case and a roll of media wound around the shaft; a roller assembly for ejecting blank media from the media roll assembly out of the media case, the roller assembly including a cartridge drive roller and an idler roller; and media roller support moldings provided at each end of the shaft, the media roller support moldings being restrainedly received in locator slots defined in the media case. The shaft is provided with a notch at each end thereof to engage cooperating nibs on each support molding, the engagement of the notches with nibs restraining the shaft from rotating. The media roller support is provided with a pair of resilient extensions extending thereform, the pair of resilient extensions engaging with the roller assembly to bias the cartridge drive roller and the idler roller into close proximity with each other.
Claims We claim: 1. A media supply cartridge comprising: a media case having a molded top half and a molded bottom half, both halves defining arcuate slots; a media roll assembly rotatably provided within the media case, the media roll assembly having a shaft received in the arcuate slots of the media case and a roll of media wound around the shaft; a roller assembly for ejecting blank media from the media roll assembly out of the media case, the roller assembly including a cartridge drive roller and an idler roller; and media roller support moldings provided at each end of the shaft, the media roller support moldings being restrainedly received in locator slots defined in the media case, wherein the shaft is provided with a notch at each end thereof to engage cooperating nibs on each support molding, the engagement of the notches with nibs restraining the shaft from rotating, and the media roller support is provided with a pair of resilient extensions extending thereform, the pair of resilient extensions engaging with the roller assembly to bias the cartridge drive roller and the idler roller into close proximity with each other. 2. The media supply cartridge of claim 1, wherein the cartridge drive roller and the idler roller are supported between ends of the case parallel with the media roll, 1 and the pair of resilient extensions further maintains the cartridge drive roller and the idler roller in registry with the shaft. 3. The media supply cartridge of claim 2, wherein the pair of resilient extensions include lunettes to engage cooperating grooves formed at the ends of the cartridge drive roller and idler roller. 4. The media supply cartridge of claim 3, wherein the drive roller is slightly longer than the idler roller. 5. The media supply cartridge of claim 4, wherein one half of the case has an opening allowing a spindle to rotate the drive roller via a coupling formed in an end of the drive roller, said opening serving as a journal for the shaft, whereby the idler roller is maintained fully within the case when the case halves are closed. 