A static fluid and a second fluid are placed into contact along a microfluidic free interface and allowed to mix by diffusion without convective flow across the interface. In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, the fluids are static and initially positioned on either side of a closed valve structure in a microfluidic channel having a width that is tightly constrained in at least one dimension. The valve is then opened, and no-slip layers at the sides of the microfluidic channel suppress convective mixing between the two fluids along the resulting interface. Applications for microfluidic free interfaces in accordance with embodiments of the present invention include, but are not limited to, protein crystallization studies, protein solubility studies, determination of properties of fluidics systems, and a variety of biological assays such as diffusive immunoassays, substrate turnover assays, and competitive binding assays.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of determining a property of a fluidic system comprising: disposing a first static fluid containing a target; disposing a second static fluid proximate to the first fluid to form a fluidic interface; suppressing convective flow of the first and second fluids such that mixing occurs across the interface solely by diffusion to reveal the physical property. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the first and second fluids are the same and a coefficient of diffusion of the target in another fluid is known, such that a viscosity of the first and second fluids can be determined. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the second fluid contains an analyte known to bind to the target, such that a concentration of the target can be determined from deviation in an observed diffusive behavior of the analyte from an expected diffusive behavior of the analyte in the absence of the target. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein an affinity of the analyte to the target is known, and a concentration of the target can be determined by deviation of at least one of a temporal diffusion profile and a spatial diffusion profile of the analyte from a corresponding profile expected in the absence of the target. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein an affinity of the analyte to the target is known, and a size of the target can be determined by deviation of at least one of a temporal diffusion profile and a spatial diffusion profile of the analyte from a corresponding profile expected in the absence of the target. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein a relative concentration of the analyte and target is known, and an affinity of the analyte to the target can be determined by deviation of at least one of a temporal diffusion profile and a spatial diffusion profile of the analyte from a corresponding profile expected in the absence of the target. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the second fluid contains a microorganism, such that chemotaxis exhibited by the organism toward the target can be analyzed. 