An apparatus and methods for dispensing sample holders for use in an automated sample analyzer is disclosed herein. The apparatus for dispensing sample holders includes a rotating carousel for housing stack of sample holders. Stacks of sample holders from the rotating carousel are fed into a chute where sample holders contact a set of rotating members having helical threads thereon. The helically threaded rotating members engage the sample containers and separate each sample holder from the remaining sample holders in the stack by rotation of the helically threaded rotating members. The sample holder can then be transferred for use in an automated sample analyzer.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for separating a sample holder from a stack of sample holders, comprising: a support member for receiving a stack of at least two sample holders; a first releasing member and a second releasing member, said first releasing member comprising a right hand oriented helical thread and a left hand oriented helical thread and said second releasing member comprising a right hand oriented helical thread and a left hand oriented helical thread; said support member being positioned to introduce the stack of at least two sample holders between said first releasing member and said second releasing member, wherein said first releasing member is operatively connected to a first rotator capable of rotation in a clockwise direction and said second releasing member is operatively connected to a second rotator capable of rotation in a counter-clockwise direction, said first and second rotators rotating said first and second releasing members thereby releasing said one of at least two sample holders from said stack of sample holders. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said first rotator is further capable of rotation in a counter-clockwise direction and said second rotator is further capable of rotation in a clockwise direction. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein said right hand oriented helical thread comprises a pitch equal to the pitch of said left hand oriented helical thread. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein said pitch is in the range of about 6.9.degree. to 7.3.degree. or in the range of about 9.2.degree. to 9.6.degree.. 5. The device of claim 3, wherein said pitch is 7.1.degree. or 9.4.degree.. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein a pitch of said right hand oriented helical thread of the first releasing member differs from a pitch of the left hand oriented helical thread of the first releasing member. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the pitch of said right hand oriented helical thread is in the range of about 6.9.degree. to 7.3.degree. and the pitch of said left hand oriented helical thread is in the range of about 9.2.degree. to 9.6.degree.. 8. The device of claim 6, wherein the pitch of said right hand oriented helical thread is about 9.4.degree. and the pitch of said left hand oriented helical thread is about 7.1.degree.. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein said first rotator or said second rotator comprises an oscillating motor. 10. The device of claim 1, further comprising a sample holder receiver for receiving the sample holder following separation of the first sample holder from the second sample holder. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein said support member comprises a tube. 12. The device of claim 1, further comprising a rotating module positioned above the support member, said rotating module comprising a plurality of openings for supporting stacks of sample holders. 13. The device of claim 12, wherein each of said plurality of openings is positioned equidistant from the center of said rotating module and equidistant from each other. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein said plurality of openings are positioned around the circumference of the rotating module. 15. The device of claim 1, wherein the first and second releasing members are substantially cylindrical and wherein the diameter of said first releasing member is the same as the diameter of the second releasing member. 16. The device of claim 1, wherein the first and second releasing members are substantially cylindrical and the diameter of said first releasing member is different than the diameter of the second releasing member. 17. A method for separating a sample holder from a stack of sample holders comprising the steps of: positioning a stack of at least a first sample holder and a second sample holder adjacent a first releasing member and a second releasing member, said first releasing member comprising a right hand oriented helical thread and a left hand oriented helical thread and said second releasing member comprising a right hand oriented helical thread and a left hand oriented helical thread; engaging said first sample holder by said first releasing member and said second releasing member; disengaging the first sample holder from the second sample holder by rotating said first releasing member in a first direction while rotating said second releasing member in a second direction; and releasing the first sample holder from the first releasing member and the second releasing member by rotating said first releasing member in the second direction while rotating said second releasing member in the first direction. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the first direction is a clockwise direction and the second direction is a counter-clockwise direction. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the second direction is a clockwise direction and the first direction is a counter-clockwise direction. 