Improved robotic surgical systems, devices, and methods include selectably associatable master/slave pairs, often having more manipulator arms than will be moved simultaneously by the two hands of a surgeon. Four manipulator arms can support an image capture device, a left hand tissue manipulation tool, a right hand tissue manipulation tool, and a fourth surgical instrument, particularly for stabilizing, retracting, tool change, or other functions benefiting from intermittent movement. The four or more arms may sequentially be controlled by left and right master input control devices. The fourth arm may be used to support another image capture device, and control of some or all of the arms may be transferred back-and-forth between the operator and an assistant. Two or more robotic systems each having master controls and slave manipulators may be coupled to enable cooperative surgery between two or more operators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgical system comprising: a plurality of manipulator arms; a master controller having a first input device for manipulation by a first hand of an operator and a second input device for manipulation by a second hand of the operator; an assistant controller having an assistant input device for manipulation by a hand of an assistant; and a processor configured to switch associations between the plurality of manipulator arms and the input devices of the master and assistant controllers in response to selection inputs received from the operator during the performance of a medical procedure to operatively couple the operator selected manipulator arms to the operator selected input devices. 2. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, further comprising an arm selector coupled to the processor for selecting between a plurality of modes, wherein a first arm is operatively associated with the assistant controller when the processor is in a first mode, and wherein the first arm is operatively associated with the master controller when the controller is in a second mode, the operatively associated arm moving the associated surgical instrument in response to movement of the operatively associated input device. 3. The robotic surgical system of claim 1, wherein a second arm is operatively associated with the master controller when the processor is in the first mode, and wherein the second arm is operatively associated with the assistant controller when the processor is in the second mode. 4. A robotic surgical method comprising: robotically moving a surgical instrument with a manipulator arm in response to manipulation of an associated first input device during a minimally invasive surgical procedure; interrupting control of the surgical instrument by the first input device; changing the association of the manipulator arm from the first input device to a second input device during the minimally invasive surgical procedure; engaging control of the surgical instrument by the associated second input device; and robotically moving the surgical instrument with the manipulator arm in response to manipulation of the second input device. 5. A minimally invasive robotic surgical system comprising: two input devices; an image capture robotic arm assembly; at least two medical instrument robotic arm assemblies; and a control system configured to control movement of the instrument robotic arm assembly in response to manipulation of one of the two input devices and control movement of the other instrument robotic arm assembly in response to manipulation of the other of the two input devices, disengage control of at least one of the two input devices from its operatively associated medical instrument robotic arm assembly, engage control of the image capture robotic arm assembly by the at least one input device during the performance of a minimally invasive surgical procedure upon receiving a command to do so, and control movement of the image capture robotic arm in response to manipulation of the at least one input device. 6. A method performed during a medical procedure on a patient, the method comprising: robotically moving a first surgical instrument using a first manipulator arm in response to manipulation of an input device to perform a task of the medical procedure; reconfiguring a control system during the medical procedure in response to a command so that the control system decouples the input device from the first manipulator arm and couples the input device to a second manipulator arm; and robotically moving a second surgical instrument using the second manipulator arm in response to manipulation of the input device to perform another task of the medical procedure. 7. A robotic surgical system comprising: a slave manipulator holding a tool for performing a minimally invasive surgical procedure; first and second master manipulators; an association interrupting input device; and a controller configured to interrupt control of the slave manipulator by a currently associated one of the first and second master manipulators upon user activation of the association interrupting input device, accept a user selection of one of the first and second master manipulators to be associated with the slave manipulator while disassociating a previously associated one of the first and second master manipulators, and associate the slave manipulator to the user selected one so that the tool is manipulatable according to manipulation of the selected one of the first and second master manipulators following user deactivation of the association interrupting input device. 8. The robotic surgical system according to claim 7, wherein the association interrupting device is a button manually activated by a user. 9. The robotic surgical system according to claim 7, wherein the association interrupting device is a foot pedal manually activated by a user. 10. The robotic surgical system according to claim 7, wherein the association interrupting device is voice controlled. 11. The robotic surgical system according to claim 7, wherein the association interrupting device is a computer mouse. 12. The robotic surgical system according to claim 7, wherein the tool is a surgical instrument. 13. The robotic surgical system according to claim 7, wherein the tool is an endoscope. 14. The robotic surgical system according to claim 7, wherein the first and second master manipulators are disposed so as to be controllable by a same operator. 15. The robotic surgical system according to claim 7, wherein the first and second master manipulators are disposed so as to be controllable by different operators. 16. A robotic surgical system comprising: first and second slave manipulators respectively holding corresponding tools for performing a minimally invasive surgical procedure; a master manipulator; an association interrupting input device; and a controller configured to interrupt control by the master manipulator of a currently associated one of the first and second slave manipulators upon user activation of the association interrupting input device, accept a user selection of one of the first and second slave manipulators to be associated with the master manipulator while disassociating a previously associated one of the first and second slave manipulators, and associate the master manipulator to the user selected one so that the corresponding tool of the user selected one of the first and second slave manipulators is manipulatable according to manipulation of the master manipulator following user deactivation of the association interrupting input device. 17. The robotic surgical system according to claim 16, wherein the association interrupting input device is one of a group of devices including a button, a foot pedal, a voice controlled device, and a computer mouse. 18. The robotic surgical system according to claim 16, wherein the tool is one of a group of devices including a surgical instrument and an endoscope. 19. The robotic surgical system according to claim 16, wherein the master manipulator is disengaged from controlling the first and second slave manipulators during user activation of the association interrupting device so that the master manipulator is usable as a user manipulatable computer mouse for user selection of one of the first and second slave manipulators to be associated with the master manipulator. 20. The robotic surgical system according to claim 19, further comprising a monitor, wherein the controller is further configured to display images of the first and second slave manipulators or their corresponding tools on the monitor and respond to user selection of one of the images using the user manipulatable computer mouse by associating the master manipulator to the one of the first and second slave manipulators to the user selected image so that the corresponding tool is manipulatable according to manipulation of the master manipulator following user deactivation of the association interrupting input device. 21. A robotic surgical system comprising: a plurality of slave manipulators respectively holding corresponding tools for performing a minimally invasive surgical procedure; a plurality of master manipulators; an association interrupting input device operable by a user of one of the plurality of master manipulators; and a controller configured to interrupt coupling between associated pairs of the plurality of slave manipulators and the plurality of master manipulators upon user activation of the association interrupting input device, receive a user selection of one of the plurality of slave manipulators to be associated with one of the plurality of master manipulators while disassociating a previously associated one of the plurality of slave manipulators, and associate the user selected one of the plurality of slave manipulators to the one of the plurality of master manipulators to be associated to, so that the corresponding tool of the user selected one of the plurality of slave manipulators is manipulatable according to the manipulation of the associated one of the plurality of master manipulators following user deactivation of the association interrupting input device. 22. The robotic surgical system according to claim 21, wherein the association interrupting input device is one of a group of devices including a button, a foot pedal, a voice controlled device, and a computer mouse. 23. The robotic surgical system according to claim 21, wherein the tool is one of a group of devices including a surgical instrument and an endoscope. 