A system and method for developing a sequence of motion control operations. Various embodiments of a motion control prototyping environment application are described. The motion control prototyping environment may be designed to enable a user to easily and efficiently develop/prototype a motion control sequence without requiring the user to perform programming, e.g., without needing to write or construct code in any programming language. For example, the environment may provide a graphical user interface (GUI) enabling the user to develop/prototype the motion control sequence at a high level, by selecting from and configuring a sequence of motion control operations using the GUI.
Claims We claim: 1. A computer-implemented method for creating a motion control sequence, the method comprising: displaying a graphical user interface that provides graphical user interface access to a set of motion control operations; receiving user input to the graphical user interface specifying a sequence of motion control operations; displaying one or more views of the sequence of motion control operations on the graphical user interface, wherein the one or more views graphically preview cumulative movement specified by the sequence of motion control operations; automatically generating a graphical program implementing the specified sequence of motion control operations, wherein automatically generating the graphical program comprises automatically including a plurality of nodes in the graphical program and automatically generating a plurality of connections between the nodes, wherein the interconnected nodes visually indicate functionality of the graphical program; and performing the specified sequence of motion control operations. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing information representing the specified sequence of motion control operations in a data structure in response to said receiving user input specifying the sequence of motion control operations. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the information does not comprise programming language code. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein said receiving user input to the graphical user interface specifying the sequence of motion control operations comprises receiving user input to the graphical user interface specifying parameter values for one or more motion control operations in the sequence; wherein said storing information representing the specified sequence of motion control operations comprises storing the parameter values; wherein said performing the sequence of motion control operations comprises executing software routines corresponding to motion control operations in the sequence, wherein said executing comprises passing the parameter values to the software routines. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said receiving user input to the graphical user interface specifying a sequence of motion control operations does not include receiving user input specifying programming language code to implement the sequence of motion control operations. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the motion control sequence is operable to control motion of a device. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving user input to the graphical user interface for configuring one or more of the motion control operations in the sequence; wherein, for each motion control operation, said configuring the motion control operation affects the motion control which the operation is operable to perform. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said receiving user input to the graphical user interface for configuring one or more of the motion control operations in the sequence does not include receiving user input specifying programming language code to configure the motion control operations. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: for each motion control operation to be configured, displaying a graphical panel including graphical user interface elements for setting one or more properties of the motion control operation and receiving user input to the graphical panel to set one or more properties of the motion control operation. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: automatically displaying the graphical panel in response to adding the motion control operation to the sequence. 11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving user input requesting to configure a first motion control operation; and displaying a graphical panel for configuring the first motion control operation in response to the request. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the graphical user interface includes an area which visually represents the motion control operations in the sequence; wherein the method further comprises: for each motion control operation added to the sequence, updating the area visually representing the motion control operations in the sequence to illustrate the added motion control operation. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the area visually representing the motion control operations in the sequence displays a plurality of icons, wherein each icon visually indicates one of the motion control operations in the sequence; wherein said updating the area visually representing the motion control operations in the sequence to illustrate the added motion control operation comprises displaying a new icon to visually indicate the added motion control operation. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the graphical user interface displays a plurality of buttons, wherein each button is operable to add a new motion control operation to the sequence in response to user input; wherein said receiving user input to the graphical user interface specifying the sequence of motion control operations comprises receiving user input to the plurality of buttons to create the sequence of motion control operations. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of motion control operations includes: a straight line move operation; an arc move operation; and a contoured move operation. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more views includes a two-dimensional position view for viewing a two-dimensional display of position data of the sequence in one or more of an XY, YZ, or ZX plane. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more views includes a three-dimensional position view for viewing a three-dimensional display of position data of the sequence. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said automatically generating a graphical program implementing the specified sequence of motion control operations comprises programmatically generating a graphical program operable to perform the specified sequence of motion control operations and wherein performing the specified sequence comprises executing the graphical program to perform the specified sequence of motion control operations. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the graphical program comprises a graphical data flow program. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a request from a computer program to execute the sequence of motion control operations, wherein the computer program was not used to create the sequence of motion control operations; and executing the specified sequence of motion control operations in response to the request. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising: programmatically converting the sequence of motion control operations to a format usable for configuring an embedded device to perform the sequence of motion control operations; and configuring the embedded device to perform the sequence of motion control operations using the format. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising compiling the graphical program into executable compiled code. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving user input specifying a sequence of motion control operations comprises the user selecting at least two motion control icons, and wherein the automatically generated graphical program is distinct from the motion control icons. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the automatically generated graphical program is modifiable by a user without the user having to modify the sequence of motion control operations. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically generating the graphical program includes automatically generating the plurality of nodes and the plurality of connections between the nodes without direct user input specifying nodes or connections between the nodes. 26. A non-transitory memory medium for creating a motion control sequence, the memory medium comprising program instructions executable to: display a graphical user interface that provides graphical user interface access to a set of motion control operations; receive user input to the graphical user interface specifying a sequence of motion control operations; display one or more views of the sequence of motion control operations on the graphical user interface, wherein the one or more views graphically preview cumulative movement specified by the sequence of motion control operations; automatically generate a graphical program implementing the specified sequence of motion control operations, wherein automatically generating the graphical program comprises automatically including a plurality of nodes in the graphical program and automatically generating a plurality of connections between the nodes, wherein the interconnected nodes visually indicate functionality of the graphical program; and perform the specified sequence of motion control operations. 27. The memory medium of claim 26, further comprising program instructions executable to: store information representing the specified sequence of motion control operations in a data structure in response to said receiving user input specifying the sequence of motion control operations. 28. The memory medium of claim 27, wherein the information does not comprise programming language code. 29. The memory medium of claim 27, further comprising program instructions executable to: access the information representing the sequence of motion control operations to determine program instructions corresponding to motion control operations in the sequence; and execute the program instructions, wherein said performing the specified sequence of motion control operations comprises executing the program instructions. 30. The memory medium of claim 27, wherein said receiving user input to the graphical user interface specifying the sequence of motion control operations comprises receiving user input to the graphical user interface specifying parameter values for one or more motion control operations in the sequence; wherein said storing information representing the specified sequence of motion control operations comprises storing the parameter values; wherein said performing the sequence of motion control operations comprises executing software routines corresponding to motion control operations in the sequence, wherein said executing comprises passing the parameter values to the software routines. 31. The memory medium of claim 26, wherein said receiving user input to the graphical user interface specifying a desired sequence of motion control operations does not include receiving user input specifying programming language code to implement the sequence of motion control operations. 32. The memory medium of claim 26, wherein the motion control sequence is operable to control a device to move an object. 33. A system for creating a motion control sequence, the system comprising: a processor; a memory storing program instructions; a display device; wherein the processor is operable to execute the program instructions stored in the memory to: display a graphical user interface that provides graphical user interface access to a set of motion control operations on the display device; receive user input to the graphical user interface specifying a sequence of motion control operations; display one or more views of the sequence of motion control operations on the graphical user interface, wherein the one or more views graphically preview cumulative movement specified by the sequence of motion control operations; automatically generate a graphical program implementing the specified sequence of motion control operations, wherein automatically generating the graphical program comprises automatically including a plurality of nodes in the graphical program and automatically generating a plurality of connections between the nodes, wherein the interconnected nodes visually indicate functionality of the graphical program; and execute the specified sequence of motion control operations. 34. The system of claim 33, further comprising: a motion control device; wherein said processor executing the program instructions to execute the specified sequence of motion control operations comprises the processor executing the specified sequence of motion control operations to control the motion control device. 35. A computer-implemented method for creating a motion control sequence, the method comprising: displaying a graphical user interface that provides graphical user interface access to a set of motion control operations; receiving user input to the graphical user interface specifying a sequence of motion control operations; automatically generating a graphical program implementing the specified sequence of motion control operations, wherein automatically generating the graphical program comprises automatically including a plurality of nodes in the graphical program and automatically generating a plurality of connections between the nodes, wherein the interconnected nodes visually indicate functionality of the graphical program; receiving a request from a computer program to execute the sequence of motion control operations, wherein the computer program was not used to create the sequence of motion control operations; and executing the specified sequence of motion control operations in response to the request, wherein said executing includes performing the specified sequence of motion control operations. 