Systems and methods for sensing an applied local tactile pressure are disclosed. The methods can include directing light onto a tactile sensing element that includes a metal nanoparticle layer. The methods can further include receiving at least a portion of the light scattered from the metal nanoparticle layer. The methods can further include determining a local pressure exerted on the tactile sensing element based at least in part on a change in a surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectrum of the received portion of the scattered light.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device comprising: a tactile sensing element comprising: a nanoparticle layer comprising metal nanoparticles, and a metal film disposed relative to the nanoparticle layer, wherein a change in a surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectrum of light scattered from the nanoparticle layer occurs in response to a local pressure applied to the metal film; and a spectrometer comprising an array of photodetectors configured to receive the light scattered from various portions of the nanoparticle layer. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising a processor configured to analyze the SPR spectrum to determine a presence of the local pressure based at least in part on a shift in a center wavelength of the SPR spectrum. 3. The device of claim 1, further comprising a processor configured to analyze the SPR spectrum to determine a value indicative of the local pressure based at least in part on a shift in a center wavelength of the SPR spectrum. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the metal nanoparticles are self-assembled metal nanoparticles. 5. The tactile sensing element of claim 1, wherein a standard deviation in the sizes of the metal nanoparticles is within 5%. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein the metal nanoparticles include gold (Au) nanoparticles. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein the metal film layer includes a gold (Au) metal film. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein the tactile sensing element further comprises a self-assembled monolayer (SAM). 9. The device of claim 8, wherein the SAM layer includes thiols. 10. The device of claim 9, wherein the thiols include alkanedithiols. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein the device includes a touch sensor that includes the tactile sensing element. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the device includes a fingerprint recognition device that includes the tactile sensing element. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein the device includes a footprint recognition device. 14. The device of claim 1, wherein the array of photodetectors include a plurality of charge-coupled devices (CCDs). 15. A tactile sensing element comprising: a metal film layer; an elastic layer formed over the metal film layer; and a metal nanoparticle layer formed over the elastic layer, wherein the metal nanoparticle layer is configured to change a surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectrum of the light that is reflected therefrom in response to an applied local pressure on the metal film layer. 16. The tactile sensing element of claim 15, wherein the metal film layer includes a gold (Au) metal film. 17. The tactile sensing element of claim 15, wherein the elastic layer includes a self-assembled monolayer (SAM) layer. 18. The tactile sensing element of claim 17, wherein the SAM layer includes thiols. 19. The tactile sensing element of claim 18, wherein the thiols include alkanedithiols. 20. The tactile sensing element of claim 15, wherein the metal nanoparticles include self-assembled metal nanoparticles. 21. The tactile sensing element of claim 15, wherein the metal nanoparticles include gold nanoparticles. 22. The tactile sensing element of claim 15, wherein a standard deviation in the sizes of the nanoparticles is within 5%. 23. The tactile sensing element of claim 15, wherein the size of the nanoparticles is in the range of 20 to 200 nm. 24. A method of sensing a local tactile pressure, the method comprising: directing light onto a tactile sensing element, wherein the tactile sensing element includes a metal nanoparticle layer; receiving at least a portion of the light scattered from the metal nanoparticle layer; and determining a local pressure exerted on the tactile sensing element based at least in part on a change in a surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectrum of the received portion of the scattered light. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the light directed onto the tactile sensing elements includes white light. 26. The method of claim 24, wherein the change in the SPR spectrum includes a shift in a center wavelength of the SPR spectrum. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein determining the local pressure includes comparing the center wavelength shift to a table relating center wavelength shifts to exerted local pressures. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein determining the local pressure includes solving an equation relating center wavelength shifts to exerted local pressures. 