An automated medication preparation system for preparing a prescribed dosage of medication in a drug delivery device includes a plurality of stations for receiving, handling and processing the drug delivery device so that the prescribed dosage of medication is delivered to the drug delivery device and a transporting device that receives and holds more than one drug delivery device and moves the drug delivery devices in a controlled manner from one station to another station. The system is configured so that two or more separate drug delivery devices can be acted upon at the same time.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of withdrawing a prescribed amount of drug from a drug vial in an automated manner comprising the steps of: identifying the type of drug vial being used; accessing a database to retrieve one or more stored vial characteristics that are associated with the identified drug vial; positioning a vented needle relative to the drug vial based on the stored vial characteristics such that in a first mode of operation, a vent port of the vented needle is open and the drug vial is vented to atmosphere and in a second mode of operation, the vent port is closed; and drawing the prescribed amount of drug from the drug vial, wherein the stored vial characteristics include information about the dimensions of a septum of the drug vial through which the vented needle is inserted to access an interior chamber of the drug vial and the step of positioning the vented needle comprises the steps of: retrieving a thickness of the septum from the stored septum dimensions; and calculating a position of the vented needle in the first mode of operation where both an open tip of the vented needle and the vent port clear the septum and are located in the interior chamber and calculating a position of the vented needle in the second mode of operation where only the open tip end clears the septum and is located in the interior chamber. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the stored vial characteristics include a characteristics relating to a material that forms the septum and the step of positioning the vented needle comprises the steps of: calculating a piercing speed of the needle based on the material characteristic of the septum of the identified drug vial; and driving the needle at the piercing speed through the septum and into an interior of the vial. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the piercing speed increases as a hardness of the material of the septum increases. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the vented needle is part of an automated drug preparation apparatus and the step of drawing the prescribed amount of drug comprises the step of: aspirating the prescribed amount of drug from the drug vial. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the vented needle is part of a syringe and the step of drawing the prescribed amount of drug comprises the step of: extending a plunger of the syringe so as to draw the prescribed amount of drug into the syringe. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the drug vial is a multi-use drug vial that contains more than one dosage and further including the step of: piercing the septum of the multi-use drug vial at different locations during successive piercings of the septum by the vented needle to prevent coring of the septum. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the stored vial characteristics include stored septum piercing coordinates that define the different locations for the vented needle to be inserted through on successive piercings of the septum by the vented needle. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein a control unit of the vented needle moves laterally to position the vented needle at a next septum piercing coordinate based on the stored coordinates and past history of the multi-use drug vial which is to be pierced so that no two consecutive piercing actions for the same vial occur at the same location. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of identifying the type of drug vial being used comprises the steps of: initially entering and storing a drug order that includes drug identification and vial identification information; placing an identifier on a surface of the drug vial, the identifier having an identification code that uniquely identifies the drug vial; reading the identification code with a reader; and comparing the read identification code with the stored vial identification information and if the two match, the vented needle is instructed to pierce the septum of the drug vial and if the two do not match, then the vented needle is prevented from piercing the septum of the drug vial. 10. A method of withdrawing a prescribed amount of drug from a drug vial in an automated manner comprising the steps of: identifying the type of drug vial being used; accessing a database to retrieve one or more stored vial characteristics that are associated with the identified drug vial; positioning a vented needle relative to the drug vial based on the stored vial characteristics such that in a first mode of operation, a vent port of the vented needle is open and the drug vial is vented to atmosphere and in a second mode of operation, the vent port is closed; and drawing the prescribed amount of drug from the drug vial, wherein the stored vial characteristics include a draw angle that is a measure of the vented needle relative to a planar ground surface reference at a time of drawing drug and further including the step of: positioning the vented needle at the stored draw angle for the identified drug vial. 11. A method of withdrawing a prescribed amount of drug from a drug vial in an automated manner comprising the steps of: identifying the type of drug vial being used; accessing a database to retrieve one or more stored vial characteristics that are associated with the identified drug vial; positioning a vented needle relative to the drug vial based on the stored vial characteristics such that in a first mode of operation, a vent port of the vented needle is open and the drug vial is vented to atmosphere and in a second mode of operation, the vent port is closed; and drawing the prescribed amount of drug from the drug vial, wherein the step of drawing the prescribed amount of drug comprises the steps of: first positioning the vented needle in the first mode of operation and drawing a first volume of drug; and subsequently positioning the vented needle in the second mode of operation where only an open tip of the vented needle clears the septum and the vent port is closed to draw a second volume of drug that is substantially less than the first volume and where a sum of the first and second volumes at least about equals the prescribed amount of drug. 12. A method of withdrawing a drawing a prescribed dosage of medication from a drug vial comprising the steps of: identifying the type of drug vial being used; accessing a database to retrieve stored vial identification information that is associated with the identified drug vial, the vial identification information includes dimensions of a septum of the drug vial; retrieving a thickness of the septum from the stored septum dimensions; calculating, based on the thickness of the septum, a first position of a vented needle in a first mode of operation where both an open tip of the vented needle and the vent port clear the septum and are located in an interior chamber of the vial; calculating, based on the thickness of the septum, a second position of the vented needle in the second mode of operation where only the open tip end clears the septum and is located in the interior chamber; first positioning the vented needle in the first mode of operation and drawing a first volume of the medication; and subsequently positioning the vented needle in the second mode of operation where only an open tip of the vented needle clears the septum and the vent port is closed and drawing a second volume of medication that is substantially less than the first volume and where a sum of the first and second volumes is equal to a total volume of the prescribed dosage of medication. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first volume is at least 90% by volume of a total volume of the dosage of medication. 