The present invention involves a system and method of remotely detecting the presence of a wafer comprising, a passive RFID circuit, wherein the RFID circuit is attached to an end of a transfer arm located inside a vacuum chamber of an ion implantation system, a reader located outside the vacuum chamber, and wherein the RFID tag provides an indication relating to whether or not a wafer is secured by the transfer arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for remotely detecting the presence of a wafer comprising: a passive RFID circuit, wherein the RFID circuit is operably coupled to a wafer gripper located at an end of a transfer arm located inside a vacuum chamber of an ion implantation system; a reader located outside the vacuum chamber and configured to transmit wirelessly an interrogation signal to the passive RFID circuit; and wherein the passive RFID circuit provides an indication relating to whether or not a wafer is secured by the wafer gripper in response to the interrogation signal. 2. The system for remotely detecting the presence of a wafer of claim 1, wherein the reader generates an RF interrogation signal. 3. The system for remotely detecting the presence of a wafer of claim 1, wherein the passive RFID circuit comprises: wiring, a passive RFID tag and a micro-switch, wherein the wiring electrically connects together the passive RFID tag and the micro-switch, and wherein the micro-switch is configured to close and alter a response of the passive RFID tag in response to the interrogation signal when the wafer is secured by the wafer gripper. 4. The system for remotely detecting the presence of a wafer of claim 3, wherein the passive RFID circuit transmits a response signal when activated by the interrogation signal transmitted by the reader when the micro-switch is open in the circuit when a wafer is not present at the wafer gripper. 5. The system for remotely detecting the presence of a wafer of claim 1, further comprising a controller and a power supply coupled to the reader, wherein the controller detects the presence of the wafer based upon a response signal generated by the passive RFID circuit in response to the interrogation signal. 6. The system for remotely detecting the presence of a wafer of claim 1, wherein the ion implantation system comprises an equipment front end module, the vacuum chamber, a load lock and the transfer arm. 7. The system for remotely detecting the presence of a wafer of claim 5, wherein the controller obtains wafer presence information from the response signal and selects a mode of operation of the ion implantation system according to the wafer presence information. 8. The system for remotely detecting the presence of a wafer of claim 1, wherein the response signal comprises tag information, force information, or position information. 9. A method of detecting wafer presence within a system comprising: delivering a wafer to a load lock in an ion implantation system; gripping the wafer with a transfer arm; generating a first signal in a passive RFID tag induced by a reader component indicating the gripping of the wafer; moving the wafer to a chuck if the first signal is generated; generating a second signal in the passive RFID tag induced by the reader component indicating proximity to the chuck upon moving the wafer to the chuck; clamping the wafer to the chuck if the second signal is generated; and releasing the wafer from the transfer arm after clamping the wafer to the chuck. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the reader generates an RF signal. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the passive RFID tag comprises an antenna coil, a microprocessor and a substrate. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the reader component is located outside the ion implantation system vacuum chamber. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the transfer arm with an attached passive RFID tag is located inside the vacuum chamber. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein the ion implantation system comprises an equipment front end module, a vacuum chamber, a load lock and a transfer arm. 15. A remote wafer detection system, comprising: a passive RFID circuit, wherein the RFID circuit is operably coupled to a wafer gripper located at an end of a transfer arm located inside a vacuum chamber of an ion implantation system; a reader located outside the vacuum chamber and configured to transmit wirelessly an interrogation signal to the passive RFID circuit; and wherein the passive RFID circuit provides a response signal related to whether or not a wafer is properly gripped by the wafer gripper in response to the interrogation signal. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the reader generates an RF interrogation signal. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the passive RFID circuit comprises: wiring, a passive RFID tag and a micro-switch, wherein the wiring electrically connects together the passive RFID tag and the micro-switch, and wherein the micro-switch is configured to close and alter a response of the passive RFID tag in response to the interrogation signal when the wafer is gripped by the wafer gripper. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the passive RFID circuit transmits the response signal when activated by the interrogation signal transmitted by the reader when a micro-switch is open in the circuit when a wafer is not present. 19. The system of claim 15, wherein the passive RFID circuit is inactivated when a micro-switch is closed by gripping of the wafer. 20. The system of claim 15, further comprising a controller and a power supply coupled to the reader, wherein the controller remotely detects the presence of a wafer based upon the response signal generated by the passive RFID circuit. 21. The system of claim 15, wherein the ion implantation system of comprises an equipment front end module, the vacuum chamber, a load lock and the transfer arm. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the controller obtains wafer presence information from the response signal and selects a mode of operation of the ion implantation system according to the wafer presence information. 23. The system of claim 15, wherein the response signal comprises tag information, force information, or position information. 24. The method of claim 9, further comprising: opening and closing the transfer arm if the first signal is not generated. 25. The method of claim 9, further comprising: alerting an operator if the second signal is not generated. 