A tool having a grip head and a stem is placed behind the body panel to which the fuel door is hinged. The grip head interfaces with the goose neck of the fuel door at a location not visible to an onlooker when the fuel door is at its open position. The grip head has a predetermined shape which allows it to grasp the goose neck, whereby rotation of the stem (manually or robotically) results in opening and closing of the fuel door selectively as needed for a painting process to ensue.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for selectively pivoting a gas door of a motor vehicle, said method comprising the steps of: hingably connecting the gas door to a body panel of the motor vehicle by a goose neck; providing a tool; placing the tool in proximity of the goose neck; gripping the goose neck by direct abutment of the tool with respect to the goose neck; rotating the tool so as to thereby rotate the goose neck to cause the gas door to move between a closed position and an open position with respect to the body panel; and removing the tool from the proximity of the goose neck. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of rotating is predetermined to coincide with predetermined painting steps of a painting process. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of gripping comprises: receiving the goose neck between mutually separated first and second abutment features. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said step of rotating comprises: rotating the first and second abutment features to thereby cause said rotating of the goose neck. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said step of rotating is predetermined to coincide with predetermined painting steps of a painting process. 6. A method for selectively pivoting a gas door of a motor vehicle, wherein a body panel of the motor vehicle has an outer panel surface side and an opposite inner panel surface side, said method comprising the steps of: hingably connecting the gas door to the body panel at inner panel surface side thereof by a goose neck; providing a tool comprising a grip head and a stem; placing the tool in proximity of the goose neck at the inner panel surface side of the body panel; gripping the goose neck by direct abutment of the grip head with respect to the goose neck; rotating the stem to thereby rotate the goose neck and thereby cause the gas door to move between a closed position and an open position with respect to the body panel; and removing the tool from the proximity of the goose neck. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said step of rotating is predetermined to coincide with predetermined painting steps of a painting process. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein said step of gripping comprises: receiving the goose neck between mutually separated first and second abutment features of the grip head. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said step of rotating is predetermined to coincide with predetermined painting steps of a painting process. 