The invention provides for a printhead assembly that has a number of modular PCBs and a number of printhead integrated circuits (ICs). Each of the printhead IC's is respectively connected to one of the modular PCBs for operative control. Modular supports in the assembly define a raised portion and a recessed portion at an end thereof. Each PCB has electrical connecting strips which operatively overlie the respective recessed portions. At least one connecting member operatively connects respective PCBs to each other. Each connecting member has a series of parallel spaced conducting strips. The member is shaped and configured for fitment into a cavity defined by the raised and recessed portions of two abutting supports to connect the connecting strips of two PCBs via the conducting strips. The assembly also has a printer controller configured to synchronize operation of the respective PCBs during printing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: a number of modular PCBs; a number of printhead integrated circuits (ICs), each of the printhead IC's being respectively connected to one of the modular PCBs for operative control; modular supports defining a raised portion and a recessed portion at an end thereof, each PCB having electrical connecting strips which operatively overlie the respective recessed portions; at least one connecting member for operatively connecting respective PCBs to each other, each connecting member having a series of parallel spaced conducting strips, said member shaped and configured for fitment into a cavity defined by the raised and recessed portions of two abutting supports to connect the connecting strips of two PCBs via said conducting strips; and a printer controller configured to synchronize operation of the respective PCBs during printing. 2. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein the conducting strips of each connecting member are provided in a 2:1 relationship with the connecting strips of the PCB. 3. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein the connecting strips are each about 0.4 mm wide with a 0.4 mm gap between adjacent strips. 4. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein the conducting strips are gold plated. 5. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein each connecting member is a rectangular block having the series of conducting strips on each surface thereof. 6. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein each conducting strip is formed on one surface of the connecting member. 7. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein each connecting member is formed of a strip of silicone rubber printed to provide sequentially spaced conductive and non-conductive material strips. 