A visual inspection apparatus includes: a first substrate holding portion that holds a substrate so that a top surface is observable; a second substrate holding portion that holds the substrate so that a bottom surface is observable; a first substrate holding portion moving mechanism that moves the first substrate holding portion; a second substrate holding portion moving mechanism that moves the second substrate holding portion; and a control device that controls the first substrate holding portion moving mechanism and the second substrate holding portion moving mechanism so that the position of the substrate when observing the top surface of the substrate in the first substrate holding portion substantially matches the position of the substrate when observing the bottom surface of the substrate in the second substrate holding portion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A visual inspection apparatus comprising: a first substrate holding portion that is adapted to apply suction and hold substantially a center of a bottom surface of a substrate so that a top surface of the substrate is observable; a second substrate holding portion that is different from the first substrate holding portion and that is adapted to apply suction and hold an outer edge of the substrate so that the bottom surface of the substrate is observable; a first substrate holding portion moving mechanism that moves the first substrate holding portion; a second substrate holding portion moving mechanism that moves the second substrate holding portion; and a control device that controls the first substrate holding portion moving mechanism and the second substrate holding portion moving mechanism so that a position of the substrate when observing the top surface of the substrate in the first substrate holding portion substantially matches a position of the substrate when observing the bottom surface of the substrate in the second substrate holding portion. 2. The visual inspection apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first substrate holding portion includes a rocking and rotation mechanism capable of rotating and rocking the substrate. 3. The visual inspection apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the second substrate holding portion comprises: a hand for holding a peripheral edge of the substrate, and a rotation mechanism for rotating the substrate and the hand together. 4. The visual inspection apparatus according to claim 3, wherein a rotary axis of the hand is provided on a line passing through a approximate center of the substrate. 5. The visual inspection apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the rotary axis of the hand is provided in a direction substantially perpendicular to a line that connects the substrate with an inspector. 6. The visual inspection apparatus according to claim 5, wherein a second rotary axis that rotates the second substrate holding portion is provided on a plane that divides an angle into two equal parts at a substrate central position, wherein the angle is formed by: (i) an optical axis direction of an imaging device capable of imaging the top and bottom surfaces of the substrate, and (ii) a line that connects a substrate center and an observer. 7. The visual inspection apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first substrate holding portion moving mechanism and the second substrate holding portion moving mechanism are configured independently. 8. The visual inspection apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the first substrate holding portion moving mechanism and the second substrate holding portion moving mechanism include strut portions extending in parallel in a movement direction of the first substrate holding portion and the second substrate holding portion. 9. The visual inspection apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a central position of the substrate when observing the top surface of the substrate in the first substrate holding portion and a central position of the substrate when observing the bottom surface of the substrate in the second substrate holding portion fall within a radius of the substrate. 10. The visual inspection apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an imaging device capable of imaging the top and bottom surfaces of the substrate. 