A wallpaper printer is provided for printing wallpaper patterns on print media. The wallpaper printer includes a cabinet assembly. A plurality of ink reservoirs are mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet assembly and store respective types of ink to be printed. A print media cartridge is mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet assembly and carries a wound length of print media. A platen extends away from the print media cartridge to support print media provided from the print media cartridge. A stationary printhead is mounted within the cabinet assembly to extend transverse to the print media, and is configured to print a wallpaper pattern with the ink and upon print media provided from the platen. A cutter module is configured to transversely cut the printed print media so that the printed print media can be separated from the wound length.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printer for printing patterns on print media, the printer comprising: a cabinet assembly; a plurality of ink reservoirs mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet assembly and storing respective types of ink to be printed; a print media cartridge mounted, in a releasable manner, within the cabinet assembly and carrying a wound length of print media; a platen extending away from the print media cartridge to support print media provided from the print media cartridge; a stationary printhead mounted within the cabinet assembly to extend transversely to the print media, and configured to print a pattern with the ink and upon print media provided from the platen; and a cutter module configured to cut the printed print media transversely so that said printed print media can be separated from said wound length. 2. A printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cutter module is further configured to slit the print media along its length. 3. A printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet assembly defines a winding well, a pair of opposed spindles located in the well to engage operatively with a former upon which the printed print media can be wound, and a motor for driving at least one of the spindles. 4. A printer as claimed in claim 3, wherein the cabinet assembly has a tape dispenser configured to dispense a portion of adhesive tape so that the printed print media can be affixed to the former. 5. A printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the print media travel path from the print media cartridge to the printhead forms a substantially straight line. 6. A printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet assembly defines an upper vent area to facilitate discharge of moist or heated air from within the cabinet assembly. 7. A printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet assembly has a data capture device configured to capture the identity of an identifier carried by a printed sample and wherein, subsequent to the capture of the identity of the printed sample, the printhead can print the printed pattern which corresponds to the printed sample. 8. A printer as claimed in claim 7, wherein the data capture device includes a barcode scanner which is tethered to the cabinet assembly and the identifier comprises a barcode which can be read by the barcode scanner. 9. A printer as claimed in claim 7, wherein the data capture device includes a touch screen display so that a user can enter the identity in the form of a visible alphanumeric code borne by the identifier. 10. A printer as claimed in claim 9, wherein the touch screen display is pivotally mounted relative to the cabinet assembly so that the touch screen can be tilted by the user. 11. A printer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet assembly has a dryer module configured to blow air towards the printed print media to dry the printed ink. 12. A printer as claimed in claim 11, wherein the dryer module has a fan configured to blow the air and a heater configured to heat the blown air. 