In a preferred embodiment, an automated Pharmacy Admixture System (APAS) may include a manipulator system to transport medical containers such as bags, vials, or syringes in a compounding chamber regulated to a pressure below atmospheric pressure. In a preferred implementation, the manipulator system is configured to grasp and convey syringes, IV bags, and vials of varying shapes and sizes from a storage system in an adjacent chamber regulated at a pressure above atmospheric pressure. Various embodiments may include a controller adapted to actuate the manipulator system to bring a fill port of an IV bag, vial, or syringe into register with a filling port at a fluid transfer station in the chamber. A preferred implementation includes a sanitization system that can substantially sanitize a bung on a fill port of a vial or IV bag in preparation for transport to the fluid transfer station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic automated pharmaceutical processing system comprising: a processor-based interface configured to receive requests to prepare one or more pharmaceutical prescriptions; and a controller coupled to the interface and configured to operate an automated prescription preparation device in response to the received requests, the automated prescription preparation device comprising: an inventory chamber comprising a housing to store within the inventory chamber a plurality of inventory items to be used in preparation of one or more pharmaceutical prescriptions, a compounding chamber access portal in a first side of the inventory chamber, a compounding chamber adjacent to the inventory chamber and communicating with the inventory chamber through the compounding chamber access portal in the first side, a multi-axis multi-linkage robot disposed within the compounding chamber and configured to grasp a first inventory item being presented from the inventory chamber through the compounding chamber access portal, convey the first inventory item to a first process location, release the first inventory item for processing at the first process location, and subsequently convey the first inventory item to a second process location in the compounding chamber, a syringe manipulator station within the compounding chamber configured to hold a syringe, and an IV bag holding station adapted to receive an IV bag from the multi-axis multi-linkage robot and operable to rotate between a first position configured to support the received IV bag with a port of the IV bag directed substantially upwards, and a second position configured to support the received IV bag with the port of the IV bag directed substantially downwards, wherein the IV bag holding station is further adapted to register the port of the IV bag with a first needle of the syringe held by the syringe manipulator station while the IV bag holding station is in either the first position or the second position. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising an exterior access portal formed in a second side wall of the housing of the inventory chamber, wherein the exterior access portal is operable between a closed position and an open position to provide an operator access for loading and unloading inventory items in the inventory chamber. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first side is disposed between the compounding chamber and the inventory chamber, the compounding chamber access portal being formed in a first side wall that comprises a divider between the compounding chamber and the inventory chamber. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising an air handling system arranged to provide air flow through the compounding chamber, the air handling system being arranged to produce a substantially uniform airflow from a ceiling of the compounding chamber toward a floor of the compounding chamber, wherein the air handling system is further arranged to reduce air pressure inside the compounding chamber to a level substantially below an ambient air pressure proximate and exterior to the compounding chamber. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising a waste container area disposed in proximity to the compounding chamber to receive inventory items that have been processed in the compounding chamber; and an aperture that couples the compounding chamber to the waste container area, wherein the air handling system is arranged to cause at least a portion of the provided air flow to flow from an interior region of the compounding chamber through the aperture generally toward a waste container disposed in the waste container area. 6. The system of claim 5, further comprising a door proximate the aperture, wherein the door permits, when in an open position, and substantially prevents, when in a closed position, the provided air flow to flow from the interior region of the compounding chamber through the aperture generally toward the waste container disposed in the waste container area. 7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a prescription database operationally coupled to the controller to provide recipe information for controlling the automated pharmaceutical processing system to prepare any of a plurality of prescriptions, wherein the automated prescription preparation device is configured to prepare the prescription for output in one of an IV bag or a syringe. 8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a rotatable inventory carousel disposed in the inventory chamber to receive the plurality of inventory items, wherein the carousel is rotatable about a vertical axis and comprises a first plurality of locations each adapted to receive an IV bag, a second plurality of locations each adapted to receive a vial that contains a drug, and a third plurality of locations each adapted to receive a syringe configured with a plunger slidably disposed within a first end of a barrel and a needle coupled to a second opposite end of the barrel, and wherein the carousel is configured to bring a selected one of the locations in proximity to the compounding chamber access portal to present a selected inventory item being stored at the selected location to the compounding chamber access portal. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a shaking station configured to impart a motion to a vial to mix the contents of the vial before drawing fluid from the vial. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the syringe manipulator station is further configured to hold the same or another syringe with a needle of the held syringe directed in a downward orientation for injecting fluid from the syringe into a vial. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein, upon completion of a fluid transfer operation, the system is further configured to withdraw a volume of fluid from a vial to produce a negative pressure in the vial relative to ambient pressure outside of the vial. 12. A robotic automated pharmaceutical processing system comprising: a processor-based interface configured to receive requests to prepare one or more pharmaceutical prescriptions; and a controller coupled to the interface and configured to operate an automated prescription preparation device in response to the received requests, the automated prescription preparation device comprising: an inventory chamber comprising a housing to store within the inventory chamber a plurality of inventory items to be used in preparation of one or more pharmaceutical prescriptions, a compounding chamber access portal in a second side of the inventory chamber, a compounding chamber adjacent to the inventory chamber and communicating with the inventory chamber through the compounding chamber access portal in the second side, the second side being disposed between the compounding chamber and the inventory chamber, the compounding chamber access portal being formed in a second side wall that comprises a divider between the compounding chamber and the inventory chamber, a multi-axis multi-linkage robot disposed within the compounding chamber and configured to grasp a first inventory item being presented from the inventory chamber through the compounding chamber access portal, convey the first inventory item to a first process location, release the first item for processing at the first process location, and subsequently convey the first inventory item to a second process location in the compounding chamber, and an air handling system arranged to provide air flow through the compounding chamber, the air handling system being arranged to produce a substantially uniform airflow from a ceiling of the compounding chamber toward a floor of the compounding chamber, wherein the automated prescription preparation device is configured to prepare a first pharmaceutical prescription for output in one of an IV bag or a syringe, and upon completion of a fluid transfer operation, the system is further configured to leave the vial at a negative pressure relative to the ambient pressure outside the vial. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein the air handling system is further arranged to reduce air pressure inside the compounding chamber to a level substantially below an ambient air pressure proximate and exterior to the compounding chamber. 14. The system of claim 12, further comprising a waste container area disposed in proximity to the compounding chamber to receive inventory items that have been processed in the compounding chamber. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising an aperture that couples the compounding chamber to the waste container area, wherein the air handling system is arranged to cause at least a portion of the provided air flow to flow from an interior region of the compounding chamber through the aperture generally toward a waste container disposed in the waste container area. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising a door proximate the aperture, wherein the door permits, when in an open position, and substantially prevents, when in a closed position, the provided air flow to flow from the interior region of the compounding chamber through the aperture generally toward the waste container disposed in the waste container area. 17. The system of claim 12, further comprising a rotatable inventory carousel disposed in the inventory chamber to receive the plurality of inventory items, wherein the carousel is rotatable about a vertical axis and comprises a first plurality of locations each adapted to receive an IV bag, a second plurality of locations each adapted to receive a vial that contains a drug, and a third plurality of locations each adapted to receive a syringe configured with a plunger slidably disposed within a first end of a barrel and a needle coupled to a second opposite end of the barrel, and wherein the carousel is configured to bring a selected one of the locations in proximity to the compounding chamber access portal to present a selected inventory item being stored at the selected location to the compounding chamber access portal. 18. The system of claim 12, further comprising a syringe manipulator station configured to hold a syringe with a needle directed in a generally upward orientation for drawing fluid through the needle from a vial into the held syringe, and hold the same or another syringe with the needle directed in a downward orientation for injecting fluid from the syringe into the vial. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the syringe manipulator station is further configured to hold the same or another syringe with the needle directed in a downward orientation for injecting fluid from the syringe into an IV bag. 20. The system of claim 18, further comprising an IV bag holding station adapted to receive an IV bag from the multi-axis multi-linkage robot and operable to rotate between a first position configured to support the received IV bag with a port of the IV bag directed substantially upwards, and a second position configured to support the received IV bag with the port of the IV bag directed substantially downwards, wherein the IV bag holding station is further adapted to register the port of the IV bag with the needle of the syringe held by the syringe manipulator station while the IV bag holding station is in either the first position or the second position. 