Fastener delivery apparatus for automatically selecting and delivering fasteners such as rivets to a setting tool. The fasteners are pre-loaded in a package and dispense via at least one fastener delivery tube that interconnects the setting tool to a fastener feeder device. The fastener feeder device releases selected fasteners from the package into the delivery tube. The fasteners are transportable individually or in groups in the tube from the feeder device to the tool. A transfer station attached to the tool or the delivery tube transfers a fastener from the delivery apparatus into the tool, transfer station is adjacent to the tool so that a delivered fastener may be inserted by the transfer station into the tool and a second position in which it is clear of the tool so as to permit the tool or a portion thereof to move towards a workpiece to insert a smooth, rapid and reliable delivery of fasteners of various sizes and types to the nose of a setting tool in any particular order and provides all the fastener types for any particular work cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for delivering fasteners to a tool via an intermediate buffer for the temporary storage of fasteners, comprising selectively transporting fasteners from a reservoir of fasteners, individually or in groups, through at least one delivery tube towards the intermediate buffer, moving the at least one delivery tube relative to the intermediate buffer from an undocked position where the tube and intermediate buffer are separated to a docked position in which they are releasably connected and a fastener path between the at least one delivery tube and the intermediate buffer is established, transferring the fasteners from the delivery tube into the intermediate buffer, temporarily storing at least some of the fasteners in the intermediate buffer, selectively releasing a fastener from an outlet of the buffer and delivering the released fastener to the tool. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the released fastener is delivered into a fastener delivery passage in a nose of the tool. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the fasteners are transported in the at least one delivery tube by compressed air. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the tool is a fastener-setting tool. 5. A method according to claim 1, further comprising using a docking device with first portion associated with an outlet of the at least one delivery tube and a second portion associated with an inlet of the intermediate buffer to connect releasably the at least one delivery tube to the intermediate buffer, automatically closing a gate in the first portion when the first and second portions are disconnected so as to prevent egress of fasteners, and opening the gate when the first and second portions are connected. 6. A method according to Claim 1, further comprising using a docking device with first portion associated with an outlet of the at least one delivery tube and a second portion associated with an inlet of the intermediate buffer to connect releasably the at least one delivery tube to the intermediate buffer, automatically closing a gate in the second portion when the first and second portions are disconnected so as to prevent egress of fasteners, and opening the gate when the first and second portions are connected. 7. A method for delivering fasteners to a tool via an intermediate buffer for the temporary storage of fasteners, comprising selectively transporting fasteners from a reservoir of fasteners, individually or in groups, through at least one delivery tube towards the intermediate buffer, moving the at least one delivery tube relative to the intermediate buffer from an undocked position where the tube and intermediate buffer are separated to a docked position in which they are releasably connected and a fastener path between the at least one delivery tube and the intermediate buffer is established, transferring the fasteners from the delivery tube into the intermediate buffer, temporarily storing at least some of the fasteners in the intermediate buffer, selectively releasing a fastener from an outlet of the buffer and delivering the released fastener to the tool; wherein the step of moving the at least one delivery tube relative to the intermediate buffer further comprises using a docking device with first portion associated with an outlet of the at least one delivery tube and a second portion associated with an inlet of the intermediate buffer to connect releasably the at least one delivery tube to the intermediate buffer, automatically closing a gate in the first portion when the first and second portions are disconnected so as to prevent egress of fasteners, and opening the gate when the first and second portions are connected. 8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the released fastener is delivered into a fastener delivery passage in a nose of the tool. 9. A method according to claim 7, wherein the fasteners are transported in the at least one delivery tube by compressed air. 10. A method according to claim 7, wherein the tool is a fastener-setting tool. 11. A method for delivering fasteners to a tool via an intermediate buffer for the temporary storage of fasteners, comprising selectively transporting fasteners from a reservoir of fasteners, individually or in groups, through at least one delivery tube towards the intermediate buffer, moving the at least one delivery tube relative to the intermediate buffer from an undocked position where the tube and intermediate buffer are separated to a docked position in which they are releasably connected and a fastener path between the at least one delivery tube and the intermediate buffer is established, transferring the fasteners from the delivery tube into the intermediate buffer, temporarily storing at least some of the fasteners in the intermediate buffer, selectively releasing a fastener from an outlet of the buffer and delivering the released fastener to the tool; wherein the step of moving the at least one delivery tube relative to the intermediate buffer further comprises using a docking device with first portion associated with an outlet of the at least one delivery tube and a second portion associated with an inlet of the intermediate buffer to connect releasably the at least one delivery tube to the intermediate buffer, automatically closing a gate in the second portion when the first and second portions are disconnected so as to prevent egress of fasteners, and opening the gate when the first and second portions are connected. 12. A method according to claim 11, wherein the released fastener is delivered into a fastener delivery passage in a nose of the tool. 13. A method according to claim 11, wherein the fasteners are transported in the at least one delivery tube by compressed air. 14. A method according to claim 11, wherein the tool is a fastener-setting tool. 