A method and apparatus for managing communication between participants in a virtual environment enables the participants to elect to automatically connect with each other via a preferred communication mechanism, manually connect with each other, or choose not to connect with each other. The connection may be point-to-point between two participants or may include multiple participants. Establishment of a connection, or the ability to establish a connection, may be based on the proximity of the participants, or the Avatars representing the participants, in the virtual environment. Once the connection is established, the connection may be managed so that the connection is maintained while the Avatars remain proximate each other and is automatically severed once the Avatars move away from each other. Environmental noise and other audio aspects may be included in the connection to simulate a real-world conversation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment, the method comprising the steps of: displaying a visible representation of a first Avatar representing a first of the at least two participants in the virtual environment to a second of the at least two participants in the virtual environment; displaying a visible representation of a second Avatar representing the second of the at least two participants in the virtual environment to the first of the at least two participants in the virtual environment; while continuing to display the first Avatar, allowing the first of the at least two participants to visually indicate, via an indicator visible to the second of the at least two participants and associated with the first avatar, whether the first of the at least two participants is available to participate in audio communication sessions or not available to participate in audio communication sessions; while continuing to display the second Avatar, allowing the second of the at least two participants to visually indicate, via an indicator visible to the first of the at least two participants and associated with the second avatar, whether the second of the at least two participants is available to participate in audio communication sessions or not available to participate in audio communication sessions; determining a proximate distance between the first and second Avatars representing the at least two participants in the virtual environment; enabling an audio communication session to be established between the at least two participants when the proximate distance between the first and second Avatars representing the at least two participants is less than or equal to a connect distance and both the first and second of the at least two participants have visually indicated via the indicators associated with the Avatars that they are available to participate in audio communication sessions. 2. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 1, further comprising determining a connection preference status of each of the at least two participants, each connection preference status indicating whether the particular participant would like to automatically connect with other participants, manually connect with other participants, or not connect with other participants. 3. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 2, wherein the step of enabling an audio communication session to be established occurs automatically if a connection preference status of a first of the participants has been set to automatically connect with other participants and a connection preference status of a second of the participants has also been set to automatically connect with other participants, and the proximate distance between the Avatars representing the first and second participants is less than or equal to the connect distance. 4. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 2, wherein, if the first participant has set its connection preference status to manually connect with other participants, then the step of enabling an audio communication session to be established with the first participant further comprises the step of presenting the first participant with an option to connect to the second participant when the proximate distance between the Avatar representing the first participant and the Avatar representing the second participant is less than or equal to the connect distance. 5. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 4, wherein the step of presenting the first participant with the option to connect to the second participant comprises providing the first participant with an indication of an identity of the second participant. 6. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 1, wherein the connect distance is modified based on the environmental context of the Avatars. 7. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 6, wherein participants will not be allowed to establish an audio connection whether their Avatars are separated by a barrier in the virtual environment regardless of whether the proximate distance between the Avatars is less than or equal to the connect distance. 8. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 7, wherein the participants will be allowed to establish an audio connection where there is a break in the barrier that will allow audio information to be passed between the Avatars across the barrier. 9. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 1, wherein if a participant has elected to be available to participate in audio communication sessions, the indicator visible to the other participants comprises an alteration of an appearance of the Avatar associated with that participant. 10. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 9, wherein the alteration of the appearance of the Avatar comprises adding a partially translucent aura to at least partially surround the Avatar. 11. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 1, wherein once an audio communication session has been established between at least two participants, the method further comprising the step of altering an appearance of the Avatars associated with the participants to the audio communication session. 12. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 11, wherein once the audio communication session has been established between at least two participants, the method further comprising the step of enabling at least one of the participants to deem the audio communication session private to prevent third parties from joining the audio communication session. 13. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 1, further comprising adding environmental background noise to an audio communication session once the audio communication session has been established. 14. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 1, wherein the background noise is overlayed onto the audio communication session as if it is coming from a direction, the direction being determined by assessing a location of a sound source in the virtual environment relative to the Avatars in the virtual environment. 15. The method for managing communication between at least two participants in a virtual environment of claim 1, wherein the audio communication session further comprises video information as well as audio information. 