Systems, methods and devices for the automated retrieval/delivery of goods from one location to another using a robotic device such as a tug and accompanying cart. A computer within the tug/cart stores a map of the building floor plan and intended paths for the tug to take when traversing from one location to the next. During the delivery, a variety of different sensors and scanners gather data that is used to avoid obstacles and/or continuously adjust the movement of the tug in order to more closely follow the intended path. The system preferably includes wireless networks that allow one or more tugs to communicate with a tug base station, a primary network located at the site of the delivery and a remote host center that monitors the status and data collected by the tugs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for using a robotic device with attached cart to retrieve/deliver a good, comprising the steps of: accepting a final destination for the robotic device from an external source; using an onboard map to determine a plurality of x,y coordinates to which the device will travel; translating said x,y coordinates to velocity values for wheels on said device in order to move said device towards said final destination; sensing with at least one onboard sensor to search for obstacles and to constantly determine the position of the device; and updating the x,y coordinates and wheel velocities based on data gathered in said sensing step. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said final destination is received from a touch screen. 3. The method of Clam 1, wherein said final destination is received from a web-enabled computer. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said final destination is received from a remote host. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: sending a request from the device to an elevator control box that the device requires the use of an elevator; controlling the elevator from said device. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said controlling step further comprises the steps of: utilizing the elevator control box to remove the elevator cabin from a hall call loop; completing all elevator stop requests initiated by an onboard cabin call loop; and utilizing the elevator control box to send the elevator to the requested floor. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said elevator control method further comprises the step of: after said step of completing all elevator stop requests, sending a message to the remote system host that the elevator is available. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said elevator control method further comprises the step of: after said step of completing all elevator stop requests, holding said requested elevator in a standby state for a predefined amount of time in order to confirm that the requested elevator is empty. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said predefined amount of time is approximately 10 seconds. 