A grabber for automatically grabbing and placing packing units of different dimensions and configurations includes a frame with a support, a hold-down device and a stripper attached to the frame. The support supports a bottom portion of a respective packing unit, and is generally horizontally movable with respect to the frame. The hold-down device is downwardly movable toward the support to clamp the respective packing unit between the support and the hold-down device. The stripper is disposed above the support and is generally horizontally movable. The respective packing unit is substantially immobilized by the hold-down device and the stripper as the support is retracted.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A grabber for automatically grabbing and placing packing units of different dimensions and configurations, comprising: a frame, and a support attached to said frame at an end portion of said support, wherein the support is horizontally movable with respect to the frame and having another end portion opposite said end portion; a hold-down device and a stripper, wherein the hold-down device is vertically movable in the direction of the support, wherein a packing unit can be pressed against the support by mechanical clamping, and the stripper is arranged above the support, so the packing unit lies against the stripper unit and is thereby immobilized when the support is retracted to release the packing unit; wherein the stripper can move horizontally parallel to the support to a position to immobilize a packing unit positioned at said another end portion when the support is retracted to release the packing unit, the hold-down device is configured as a plate that extends across substantially the entire surface of the supports, wherein the stripper comprises a plurality of rods that define a generally vertical wall and the hold-down device is provided with cut-outs for the passage of the rods of the stripper. 2. A grabber according to claim 1, wherein the support is designed as a support plate or support comb with several spaced-apart tines. 3. A grabber according to claim 2, wherein the interval spacing between the spaced apart tines of the support is variable by adjusting relative positions of the tines. 4. A grabber according to claim 3, wherein the hold-down device has an elastic pad on a side facing the support. 5. A grabber according to claim 2, wherein the hold-down device has an elastic pad on a side facing the support. 6. A grabber according to claim 1, wherein the hold-down device is provided with oblong cutouts. 7. A grabber according to claim 6, wherein the interval spacing between the spaced apart tines of the support is variable by adjusting relative positions of the tines. 8. A grabber according to claim 7, wherein the hold-down device has an elastic pad on a side facing the support. 9. A grabber according to claim 6, wherein the hold-down device has an elastic pad on a side facing the support. 10. A grabber according to claim 1, wherein the interval spacing between the spaced apart tines of the support is variable by adjusting relative positions of the tines. 11. A grabber according to claim 10, wherein the hold-down device has an elastic pad on a side facing the support. 12. A grabber according to claim 1, wherein the hold-down device has an elastic pad on a side facing the support. 13. A grabber according to claim 1, wherein the support, the hold-down device and the stripper are designed to travel by means of an electric motor or a pneumatic drive unit. 14. A grabber according to claim 1 including at least one sensor for determining the hold-down force between the support and the hold-down device. 15. A grabber according to claim 1, wherein the holding force of the hold-down device is determined by measuring or adjusting the pressure for a pneumatic drive or the torque for an electric drive. 16. A grabber according to claim 1, wherein said frame is adapted to be fastened to a robot or overhead gantry robot. 17. A grabber according to claim 1, wherein the holding forces acting on the packing units are amplified by vacuum heads or pneumatic units. 18. A grabber for automatically grabbing and placing packing units of different dimensions and configurations, comprising: a frame, and a support attached to said frame, wherein the support is horizontally movable with respect to the frame; a hold-down device and a stripper, wherein the hold-down device is vertically movable in the direction of the support, wherein a packing unit can be pressed against the support by mechanical clamping, and the stripper is arranged above the support, so the packing unit is immobilized when the support is retracted; wherein the stripper can move horizontally parallel to the support, the hold-down device is configured as a plate that extends across substantially the entire surface of the supports, wherein the stripper comprises a plurality of rods that define a generally vertical wall and the hold-down device is provided with cut-outs for the passage of the rods of the stripper, wherein the support is designed as a support plate or support comb with several spaced-apart tines and wherein the hold-down device is provided with oblong cut-outs. 19. A grabber according to claim 18, wherein the interval spacing between the spaced apart tines of the support is variable by adjusting relative positions of the tines. 20. A grabber according to claim 19, wherein the hold-down device has an elastic pad on a side facing the support. 21. A grabber according to claim 18, wherein the hold-down device has an elastic pad on a side facing the support. 