A friction stir system for processing at least a first workpiece includes a spindle actuator coupled to a rotary tool comprising a rotating member for contacting and processing the first workpiece. A detection system is provided for obtaining information related to a lateral alignment of the rotating member. The detection system comprises at least one sensor for measuring a force experienced by the rotary tool or a parameter related to the force experienced by the rotary tool during processing, wherein the sensor provides sensor signals. A signal processing system is coupled to receive and analyze the sensor signals and determine a lateral alignment of the rotating member relative to a selected lateral position, a selected path, or a direction to decrease a lateral distance relative to the selected lateral position or selected path. In one embodiment, the friction stir system can be embodied as a closed loop tracking system, such as a robot-based tracked friction stir welding (FSW) or friction stir processing (FSP) system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A friction stir method for processing at least a first workpiece, wherein a system for said method comprises a spindle actuator coupled to a rotary tool comprising a rotating member for contacting and processing said first workpiece, comprising: measuring at least one force signal or a parameter related to said force experienced by said rotary tool during said processing, and estimating a lateral position of said rotating member relative to a selected lateral position or a selected path, wherein said estimating comprises comparing stored lateral position correlation data or lateral position correlation data based on a stored correlation function to said force experienced by said rotary tool to determine a lateral position of said rotating member with respect to the selected lateral position or the selected path and determining lateral offset values based on said lateral position; and decreasing a lateral distance between the rotating member and the selected lateral position or the selected lateral path based on the lateral offset values. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said rotating member comprising a shoulder and a probe extending outwardly from said shoulder, whereby said method comprises friction stir welding (FSW). 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said method comprises friction stir processing (FSP). 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of weaving to direct said rotary tool in a direction to decrease a lateral distance relative to said selected lateral position or said selected path. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said system includes at least one sensor signal enhancement feature based on said system. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said system further comprises a backing plate under said workpiece, wherein said sensor signal enhancement feature comprises a material variation of said backing plate, a surface indentation or protrusion in said backing plate, or thickness variation of said backing plate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least a first workpiece comprises said first workpiece and a second workpiece, wherein at least one of said first workpiece and said second workpiece includes at least one sensor signal enhancement feature. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said method comprises welding a blind T-joint. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said method comprises welding a butt joint. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said method comprises welding a lap joint. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said method comprises the step of controlling a lateral position of said rotary tool based on said lateral alignment. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said controlling comprises sending control signals to cause a servo motor coupled to a robotic arm to automatically control said lateral position of said rotary tool so that said sensor signals are within a predetermined range or said lateral alignment is maintained within a predetermined limit or range. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said force comprises an axial force. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said force comprises an in-plane force. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of issuing an alert to an operator of said system when said lateral alignment is outside a predetermined limit or range. 16. A friction stir method for processing at least a first workpiece using a friction stir weld system comprising a spindle actuator coupled to a rotary tool comprising a rotating member for performing said processing, the method comprising: measuring a force experienced by said rotary tool or a parameter related to said force experienced by said rotary tool during said processing, said force based on a plurality of force sensor signals associated with said measured force or said measured parameter at a plurality of locations on said first workpiece, comparing said plurality of force sensor signals to stored lateral position correlation data or lateral position correlation data based on a stored correlation function to discern a lateral position of said rotating member with respect to a selected lateral position or a selected path, determining at least one lateral alignment offset value for said rotating member based at least on said discerned lateral position, and decreasing a lateral distance between said rotary tool and said selected lateral position or said selected path based on said lateral alignment offset value. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising providing a backing plate under said first workpiece comprising a force sensor signal enhancement feature, said force sensor signal enhancement feature comprising a material variation of said backing plate, a surface indentation or protrusion in said backing plate, or thickness variation of said backing plate. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein said adjusting further comprises: moving an arm driven by a servo motor coupled to said rotary tool arm to automatically control said lateral position of said rotary tool based on said lateral alignment offset value. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said moving further comprises moving said rotary tool along said first workpiece in a weaving pattern. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein said plurality of force sensor signals are associated with at least one among an axial force, an in plane force, and a torque experienced by said rotary tool. 21. The method of claim 16, further comprising selecting said feature of said first workpiece to comprise at least a portion of said first workpiece contacting at least one second workpiece. 22. The method of claim 16, wherein determining is further based on a direction of rotation of said rotating member. 23. The method of claim 16, wherein said comparing further comprises comparing said plurality of force sensor signals at consecutive ones of said plurality of locations. 24. The method of claim 16, wherein said determining further comprises determining a direction towards a location of maximal or minimal force relative to said current location of said rotating member. 25. A friction stir welding method for welding at least a first and a second workpiece using a tracked friction stir weld tool comprising a spindle actuator coupled to a rotary tool having a rotating member with a shoulder and a probe extending outwardly from said shoulder for contacting and processing said first and second workpiece, the method comprising: measuring a force experienced by said rotary tool during said processing, said force based on a plurality of force sensor signals associated with said measured force at a plurality of locations on said first and second workpiece; comparing said plurality of force sensor signals to stored lateral position correlation data or lateral position correlation data based on a stored correlation function to discern a lateral position of said rotating member with respect to a joint line for said first and second workpiece; determining lateral alignment offset values for said rotating member based at least on said discerned lateral position; and decreasing a lateral distance between said rotating member and said joint line by adjusting a lateral position of said rotary tool based on said lateral alignment offset values. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said adjusting further comprises: operating a servo motor to move an arm coupled to said rotary tool to change said lateral position of said rotary tool. 27. The method of claim 25, further comprising: providing a backing plate under at least one of said first and second workpiece, wherein said backing plate comprises a force sensor signal enhancement feature, said force sensor signal enhancement feature comprising a material variation of said backing plate, a surface indentation or protrusion in said backing plate, or thickness variation of said backing plate. 28. The method of claim 25, wherein said adjusting further comprises moving said rotary tool along said first workpiece in a weaving pattern. 29. The method of claim 25, wherein said plurality of force sensor signals are associated with at least one among an axial force, an in plane force, and a torque experienced by said rotary tool. 30. The method of claim 25, further comprising selecting said feature to comprise at least a portion of at least one second workpiece contacting said first workpiece. 31. The method of claim 25, wherein determining is further based on a direction of rotation of said rotating member. 32. The method of claim 25, wherein said comparing further comprises comparing said plurality of force sensor signals at consecutive ones of said plurality of locations. 33. The method of claim 25, wherein said determining further comprises determining a direction towards a location of maximal or minimal force relative to said current location of said rotating member. 