In a technique for fabricating an integrated circuit to include an active device structure which supports an electrical interconnect structure, a photoresist layer is used prior to forming an electrical interconnect structure on the active device structure. The photoresist and related residues are removed by exposing the photoresist and exposed regions of the active device structure to one or more reactive species that are generated using a gas mixture including hydrogen gas, as a predominant source of the reactive species, in a plasma source such that the photoresist and residues are continuously exposed to hydrogen-based reactive species. An associated system architecture is described which provides for a substantial flow of hydrogen gas in the process chamber.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In an overall technique for fabricating an integrated circuit on a wafer to include an active device structure which supports an electrical interconnect structure, and during an intermediate step, prior to forming said electrical interconnect structure, a patterned layer of photoresist is used in the overall technique and which patterned layer of photoresist is exposed to a high dose ion implant to form an implant crust as an outermost layer of the photoresist, and to form a junction in a silicon surface of said wafer, said implant crust being supported by an unaltered, bulk portion of the photoresist, a method comprising: prior to forming the electrical interconnect structure, exposing the patterned layer of photoresist and the exposed regions of the active device structure to one or more reactive species that are generated in a plasma using a gas mixture including hydrogen gas, as a predominant source of said reactive species and nitrogen gas without adding oxygen, in a plasma source to at least partially remove the implant crust from said patterned layer of photoresist and to remove at least some portion of the bulk photoresist such that the implant crust of the photoresist is continuously exposed to hydrogen-based reactive species during the removal of said photoresist to limit loss of silicon from said silicon surface of the wafer by oxidation. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the nitrogen gas is a sole additive gas at rate of flow up to about 20% that of the hydrogen gas. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein said exposing selectively subjects said wafer primarily to neutral ones of said reactive species. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein stripping of said photoresist and removal of said residue is performed in a single step using (i) a process gas pressure is a range of approximately 400 mTorr to 2.5 Torr, (ii) a hydrogen gas flow, as part of said gas mixture, is between one and five standard liters per minute, (iii) a nitrogen flow, as part of said gas mixture, is approximately between 5% and 10% that of the hydrogen gas flow, (iv) a power level provided to the plasma source is between 500 Watts and 3000 Watts and (v) a temperature of said wafer is between 120 Celsius and 250 Celsius. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said exposing uses (i) a gas pressure that is between about 2 mTorr to as much as about 5 Ton, (ii) a total flow of said gas mixture is from about 50 standard cubic centimeters per minute to as much as about 20 thousand standard cubic centimeters per minute per wafer, (iii) a power level that is provided to the plasma source is between about one hundred watts to as much as about 5 kilowatts and (iv) a temperature of said wafer is from room temperature up to about 350 degrees Celsius. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the wafer temperature is at least initially less than 120 Celsius and said reactive species are energized using an RF power that is provided to a structure which supports the wafer to energize said reactive species moving to the wafer. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein exposing includes subjecting the wafer primarily to neutral ones of said reactive species from said plasma source without acceleration thereof. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein related residues are formed and wherein exposing includes subjecting the photoresist and related residues to said reactive species in at least two sequential steps using a first gas mixture and a second gas mixture to produce said reactive species wherein the first gas mixture is different from the second gas mixture, but each of the first and second gas mixtures includes hydrogen sufficient to cause the hydrogen to be the predominant source of the reactive species. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein said first gas mixture includes nitrogen gas in an amount up to about 20% of a rate of flow of the hydrogen gas and producing said plasma using an inductively coupled plasma source. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein said wafer is subjected primarily to neutral ones of said reactive species produced from said first gas mixture without acceleration thereof. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein said wafer is subjected to accelerated ones of said reactive species produced from said second gas mixture. 12. The method of claim 1 including maintaining said wafer at a temperature between 120 degrees Celsius and 300 degrees Celsius and producing said plasma using an inductively coupled plasma source. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said gas mixture includes nitrogen gas and ammonia gas in an amount up to about 20% of a rate of flow of the hydrogen gas and producing said plasma using an inductively coupled plasma source. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein residues are formed and wherein exposing includes subjecting the photoresist and related residues to said reactive species in a series of steps using a series of different gas mixtures to produce a series of said reactive species, all of which include hydrogen as a predominant source of the reactive species. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said sequential series of steps uses a set of process parameters including (i) gas pressures in said process chamber from about 2 mTorr to as much as about 5 Ton, (ii) a total flow of said gas mixture from about 50 standard cubic centimeters per minute to as much as about 20 thousand standard cubic centimeters per minute, (iii) a power level provided to said plasma source between about one hundred watts to as much as about 5 kilowatts, and (iv) a temperature of said wafer from room temperature up to about 350 degrees Celsius. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein exposing subjects the photoresist to one or more steps at a temperature of less than approximately 120 degrees Celsius and said reactive species are energized to remove or soften at least an outermost portion of the crust. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein during said exposing (i) a process pressure in said process chamber is from about 2 mTorr to as much as about 5 Ton, (ii) a total flow of said gas mixture is from about 50 standard cubic centimeters per minute to as much as about 20 thousand standard cubic centimeters per minute, (iii) a power level provided to the plasma source is between about 100 hundred watts to as much as about 5 kilowatts, and (iv) a temperature of said wafer is from room temperature up to about 350 degrees Celsius. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the gas mixture includes nitrogen and ammonia with a rate of flow that is up to about 20% of that of a primary flow of hydrogen gas. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein (i) the primary flow of hydrogen is between two and five standard liters per minute, (ii) the nitrogen rate of flow is in a range of 5% to 10% of the primary flow of the hydrogen gas, (iii) a process pressure during said exposing is between 0.025 Torr and 1.3 Ton, (iv) the temperature of said wafer is up to 300 Celsius during said exposing, and the power level that is provided to the plasma source is between 900 Watts and 3000 Watts. 20. The method of claim 1 including producing said plasma with an inductively coupled plasma source. 21. The method of claim 20 wherein the nitrogen gas is a sole additive gas at rate of flow up to about 20% that of the hydrogen gas. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein said exposing selectively subjects said wafer primarily to neutral ones of said reactive species. 23. The method of claim 20 wherein stripping of said photoresist and removal of said residue is performed in a single step using (i) a process gas pressure is a range of approximately 400 mTorr to 2.5 Ton, (ii) a hydrogen gas flow, as part of said gas mixture, is between one and five standard liters per minute, (iii) a nitrogen flow, as part of said gas mixture, is between 5% and 10% that of the hydrogen gas flow, (iv) a power level provided to the plasma source is between 500 Watts and 3000 Watts and (v) a temperature of said wafer is between 120 Celsius and 250 Celsius. 