The present invention generally comprises an apparatus for transporting containers between a first transport system and a second transport system. In one embodiment, the first transport system comprises a ceiling-based conveyor and the second transport system comprises a floor-based conveyor. The present invention may further include storage shelves, preferably substantially horizontally aligned about a common vertical plane with a section of one of the transport systems. The transport system may be located either directly above the uppermost storage shelf or beneath the lowermost storage shelf in order to add storage capacity within the fab. A vertical module transports containers between the transport systems and the at least one storage shelf.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus for storing one or more containers and for transporting the one or more containers between a ceiling-based transport system and a floor-based transport system, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves, each one of the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves substantially horizontally aligned in a common vertical plane with a section of the ceiling-based transport system that is located directly above an uppermost storage shelf; a transfer module comprising, a vertically oriented housing; and a transfer mechanism configured to move the one or more containers within the vertically oriented housing between the ceiling-based transport system and the uppermost storage shelf; a first platform substantially and continuously horizontally aligned in the common vertical plane with the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; wherein the first platform is configured to vertically move the one or more container among the uppermost storage shelf, one or more of the vertically stacked storage shelves located beneath the uppermost storage shelf, and the floor-based transport system; and a second platform substantially and continuously horizontally aligned in the common vertical plane with the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; wherein the second platform is configured to vertically move the one or more containers among one or more of the vertically stacked storage shelves located beneath the uppermost storage shelf. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein each one of the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves comprises a conveyor. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the common vertical plane comprises a first common vertical plane and wherein the ceiling-based transport system comprises: an upper transport system substantially horizontally aligned in a second common vertical plane with a lower transport system. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a pull-over loop for storing the one or more containers upstream of the transfer module. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a lane jumper for transferring the one or more containers between the ceiling-based transport system and the pull-over loop. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the conveyor comprises a bidirectional conveyor. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transfer module comprises a first transfer module, the one or more containers comprise one or more first containers and the apparatus further comprises: a second transfer module comprising: a second vertically oriented housing; and a second transfer mechanism for moving one or more second containers within the second vertically oriented housing between the ceiling-based transport system and the uppermost storage shelf. 8. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the transfer mechanism is configured to move the one or more containers between the upper transport system, the lower transport system and the uppermost storage shelf. 9. An apparatus for storing one or more containers and for transporting the one or more containers between a ceiling-based transport system and a floor-based transport system, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves, each one of the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves substantially horizontally aligned with a section of the ceiling-based transport system that is located directly above an uppermost storage shelf; a transfer module comprising a vertically oriented housing passing adjacent the ceiling-based transport system, each one of the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves, and the floor-based transport system; a transfer mechanism configured to move the one or more containers within the vertically oriented housing among the ceiling-based transport system, the floor-based transport system, and each one of the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; a first platform substantially and continuously horizontally aligned in a common vertical plane with the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; wherein the first platform is configured to vertically move the one or more containers among the uppermost storage shelf, one or more of the vertically stacked storage shelves located beneath the uppermost storage shelf, and the floor-based transport system; and a second platform substantially and continuously horizontally aligned in the common vertical plane with the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves, wherein the second platform is configured to vertically move the one or more containers among one or more of the vertically stacked storage shelves located beneath the uppermost storage shelf. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the transfer module comprises a first transfer module, the one or more containers comprise one or more first containers and the apparatus further comprises: a second transfer module comprising: a second vertically oriented housing passing adjacent the ceiling-based transport system and one or more of the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; and a second transfer mechanism for moving one or more second containers within the second vertically oriented housing. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the second platform is configured to vertically move the one or more containers between a first end of a first storage shelf and a second end of a second storage shelve in the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein each one of the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves comprises a conveyor. 13. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a pull-over loop for storing the one or more containers upstream of the transfer module. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising a lane jumper for transferring the one or more containers between the ceiling-based transport system and the pull-over loop. 15. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the vertically oriented housing passes adjacent an end of a storage shelf in the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves. 16. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising a second plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein each one of the second plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves comprises a conveyor. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the vertically oriented housing is located between the first plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves and the second plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the transfer mechanism is configured to move the one or more containers between the ceiling-based transport system, the first plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves, the second plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves and the floor-based transport system. 20. In a fabrication facility having multiple tool bays, each comprising a first processing tool and a second processing tool, a system comprising: a floor-based intrabay transport system for transporting one or more first containers in a first direction within a tool bay between the first processing tool and the second processing tool; a ceiling-based interbay transport system for moving one or more second containers along a second direction that is substantially perpendicular to the first direction; a vertical transport module configured to move one or more third containers between the floor-based intrabay transport system and the ceiling-based interbay transport system; a first platform substantially and continuously horizontally aligned in a common vertical plane with a plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves located between the floor-based intrabay transport system and the ceiling-based interbay transport system; wherein the first platform is configured to vertically move the one or more third containers among an uppermost storage shelf, one or more of the vertically stacked storage shelves located beneath the uppermost storage shelf, and the floor-based intrabay transport system; and a second platform substantially and continuously horizontally aligned with in the common vertical plane with the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; wherein the second platform is configured to vertically move the one or more third containers among one or more of the vertically stacked storage shelves located beneath the uppermost storage shelf. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein the floor-based intrabay transport system comprises a conveyor. 22. The system of claim 20, wherein the floor-based intrabay transport system comprises a rail guided vehicle. 23. The system of claim 20, wherein the floor-based interbay transport system comprises an automated guided vehicle. 24. The system of claim 20, wherein the ceiling-based interbay transport system comprises a conveyor. 25. The system of claim 20, wherein the ceiling-based interbay transport system comprises an overhead transport vehicle. 26. The system of claim 20, wherein the ceiling-based interbay transport system comprises an overhead transport shuttle. 27. The system of claim 20, wherein the vertical transport module comprises a first vertical transport module and wherein the system further comprises: a second vertical transport module configured to move the one or more third containers between the floor-based intrabay transport system and the ceiling-based interbay transport system. 28. In a fabrication facility comprising multiple tool bays, each comprising a first processing tool and a second processing tool, a floor-based intrabay transport system for transporting one or more containers in a first direction within a tool bay between the first processing tool and the second processing tool, and a ceiling-based interbay transport system for moving the one or more containers along a second direction that is substantially perpendicular to the first direction, an apparatus comprising: a vertical transport module configured to move the one or more containers between the floor-based intrabay transport system and the ceiling-based interbay transport system; a first platform substantially and continuously horizontally aligned in a common vertical plane with a plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves located between the floor-based intrabay transport system and the ceiling-based interbay transport system; wherein the first platform is configured to vertically move the one or more containers among an uppermost storage shelf, one or more of the vertically stacked storage shelves located beneath the uppermost storage shelf, and the floor-based intrabay transport system; and a second platform substantially and continuously horizontally aligned in the common vertical plane with the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; wherein the second platform is configured to vertically move the one or more containers among one or more of the vertically stacked storage shelves located beneath the uppermost storage shelf. 29. An apparatus for storing one or more containers and for moving the one or more containers to and from a container transport system, the apparatus comprising: a plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; a transfer module comprising: a vertically oriented housing located adjacent to the container transport system and one or more of the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; a transfer mechanism for moving the one or more containers within the vertically oriented housing between the container transport system and one or more of the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; a first platform substantially and continuously horizontally aligned in a common vertical plane with the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; wherein the first platform is configured to vertically move the one or more containers among an uppermost storage shelf, one or more of the vertically stacked storage shelves located beneath the uppermost storage shelf, and the container transport system; and a second platform substantially and continuously horizontally aligned in the common vertical plane with the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves; wherein the second platform is configured to vertically move the one or more containers among one or more of the vertically stacked storage shelves located beneath the uppermost storage shelf. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the common vertical plane comprises a first common vertical plane and wherein the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves are substantially horizontally aligned in a second common vertical plane with a section of the container transport system that is located directly above the uppermost storage shelf. 31. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the common vertical plane comprises a first common vertical plane and wherein the plurality of vertically stacked storage shelves are substantially horizontally aligned in a second common vertical plane with a section of the container transport system that is located directly beneath a bottommost storage shelf. 