A printhead is provided having ejection nozzle integrated circuits, flexible printed circuit boards for connecting electrical signals to associated ones of the integrated circuits and controllers each connected to at least one of the integrated circuits via the respective flexible printed circuit board for controlling the printing operation of the integrated circuits. Each controller is provided on a respective printed circuit board. The printed circuit boards are adjacent one another and each have recessed portions which adjoin recessed portions in the adjacent printed circuit boards. The adjoined recessed portions receive an electrical connecting member for interconnecting the controllers of adjacent printed circuit boards such that each interconnected controller is able to control the printing operation of the integrated circuits.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead comprising: a plurality of ejection nozzle integrated circuits; a plurality of flexible printed circuit boards for connecting electrical signals to associated ones of the integrated circuits; and a plurality of controllers each connected to at least one of the integrated circuits via the respective flexible printed circuit board for controlling the printing operation of the integrated circuits, wherein each controller is provided on a respective printed circuit board, the printed circuit boards being adjacent one another and each having recessed portions which adjoin recessed portions in the adjacent printed circuit boards, said adjoined recessed portions receiving an electrical connecting member for interconnecting the controllers of adjacent printed circuit boards such that each interconnected controller is able to control the printing operation of the integrated circuits. 2. A printhead according to claim 1, wherein the printed circuit boards are supported by a support frame of the printhead. 3. A printhead according to claim 2, further comprising a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors removably mounted to the support frame and arranged to provide power from a power supply to the controllers and integrated circuits. 4. A printhead according to claim 3, wherein power from the electrical conductors is delivered to the controllers and the integrated circuits via the flexible printed circuit boards. 