In a method for producing a coated composite component, an injection-molded part is produced in a first cycle by introducing a melt into the cavity of a first mold. A polyurethane layer is then applied to the cavity surface of an open polyurethane mold half. The mold half with the injection molded part produced in the first cycle is associated with the polyurethane mold half, and the so formed second mold is closed. The polyurethane layer is pressed or embossed onto the injection-molded part in the second mold, and the coated injection-molded part is removed once the second mold has been opened.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent is set forth in the appended claims and includes equivalent of the elements recited therein: 1. A method for producing a coated composite component, comprising the steps of: producing a thermoplastic plastic support by introducing a melt into a closed cavity of a first mold, opening the first mold, while leaving the produced thermoplastic plastic support in a mold half of the first mold, applying a polyurethane layer onto a cavity surface of a mold half of a polyurethane mold, associating the thermoplastic plastic support that was left in the mold half of the first mold with the mold half of the polyurethane mold that has the applied polyurethane layer, closing a second mold which includes both the mold half with the thermoplastic plastic support and the mold half with the polyurethane layer, thereby pressing or molding the applied polyurethane layer onto the thermoplastic plastic support and distributing the applied polyurethane layer over a surface of the thermoplastic plastic support in a region defined by a cavity of the second mold, at least partially curing the applied polyurethane layer, opening the second mold, and removing the coated composite component. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of repositioning the thermoplastic plastic support in the mold half of a first mold, before the second mold closes for pressing or molding the polyurethane layer onto the injection molded part. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the polyurethane layer is applied to the cavity surface in the same cycle in which the melt is introduced into the first mold. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the polyurethane layer is applied to the cavity surface after introduction of the melt into the first mold and after opening the first mold. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the polyurethane layer is applied by spraying polyurethane onto the cavity surface. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the polyurethane layer is applied by coating polyurethane on a support layer, which support layer is subsequently inserted into a cavity recess of a mold half. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the polyurethane layer is applied to the support layer in a separate device located adjacent to an injection molding machine that produces the thermoplastic plastic support. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein the support layer is implemented as a foil or decor. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the foil or decor is affixed to a clamping frame. 10. The method of claim 6, wherein the polyurethane layer is applied to the cavity surface or to the support layer with a movable polyurethane mixing head. 11. The method of claim 1, and further comprising the step of applying polyurethane materials with different properties onto the cavity surface simultaneously or consecutively with application of polyurethane layer. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the polyurethane layer is made of a highly viscous or highly loaded polyurethane material. 13. The method of claim 2, wherein the injection-molded parts are repositioned through rotation with a rotary table, with an indexing plate arrangement or with a turning plate, or through displacement with a sliding table, or with a combination thereof. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of applying a release agent to the cavity surface, before the polyurethane layer is applied. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the release agent comprises a foil or a decor. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of applying a varnish layer to the cavity surface, before the polyurethane layer is applied. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of inserting an insert material in the cavity surface, before the polyurethane layer is applied. 18. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of inserting a clamping frame between the mold half with the thermoplastic plastic support and the mold half with the applied polyurethane layer, with the clamping frame sealing the cavity against the ambient before the polyurethane layer is pressed or molded on the injection molded part. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of providing the mold half of the polyurethane mold with an insert, forming a cavity recess in the insert, applying the polyurethane material to the cavity surface of the insert outside the clamping unit, and inserting the insert into the second mold half. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein several inserts are provided and different inserts are inserted sequentially into the second mold half. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein at least two inserts are formed with different cavity recesses or different cavity surfaces. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the insert is mounted with a quick-gripping or bayonet system. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the coated thermoplastic plastic support is removed from the mold together with the insert. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the mold half with the polyurethane layer is constructed from steel, aluminum, plastic or an electro-formed material. 25. The method of claim 1, comprising the steps of in a first cycle, producing the thermoplastic plastic support in the first mold at the same time the polyurethane material is applied to the cavity surface of the mold half of the polyurethane mold, associating the corresponding mold halves of the first mold and the second mold after the first cycle and before starting a second cycle, and in the second cycle, molding the polyurethane layer on the thermoplastic plastic support. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the mold halves are associated through rotation of the mold halves by 90.degree.. 27. The method of claim 10, wherein the polyurethane layer is applied by using at least two polyurethane mixing heads, which are alternatingly supplied from a single polyurethane facility by way of a switching unit. 