Apparatus and method in the use thereof attaches an annular transponder unit to an annular tire surface, the transponder unit being of a type having a sensor housing coupled to an annular antenna. The apparatus includes a rotary turntable for supportably rotating a tire having an annular tire surface in an accessible disposition and an arm proximately disposed to the turntable and having end-of-arm tooling for attaching the transponder unit section by section to the annular tire surface as the tire is rotated. The tooling includes a gripping mechanism engaging the sensor housing and placing the sensor housing at a preselected location on the annular tire surface and a guide mechanism engaging the annular antenna and positioning the annular antenna section by section along the annular tire surface as the tire is rotated. An adhesive material applicator nozzle is disposed between the guide mechanism and the gripping means for application of the adhesive material between the annular antenna and the annular tire surface as the tire is rotated. A pre-staging station supporting the transponder unit may further be utilized, the arm moving between the pre-staging station and the turntable and the gripping mechanism engaging the sensor housing at the pre-staging station to transport the transponder unit from the pre-staging station to the turntable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for attaching an annular transponder unit to an annular tire surface, the transponder unit being of a type having a sensor housing coupled to an annular antenna, the apparatus comprising: a. a table for supporting a tire having an annular tire surface in an accessible disposition; b. an arm proximately disposed to the table and having tooling means at a remote end for supporting a sensor housing section of the transponder unit against the annular tire surface and for progressively attaching the annular antenna section by section to the annular tire surface, wherein the tooling means comprises: gripping means for engaging the sensor housing and placing the sensor housing at an indexed location on the annular tire surface; and guide means for engaging the annular antenna and progressively positioning the annular antenna section by section along the annular tire surface; and c. means for establishing a relative rotation between the tire and the arm tooling means between an initial relative position and a terminal relative position. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising means for rotating the table relative to the arm tooling means. 3. Apparatus for attaching an annular transponder unit to an annular tire surface, the transponder unit being of a type having a sensor housing coupled to an annular antenna, the apparatus comprising: a. a table for supporting a tire having an annular tire surface in an accessible disposition; b. an arm proximately disposed to the table and having tooling means at a remote end for supporting a sensor housing section of the transponder unit against the annular tire surface and for progressively attaching the annular antenna section by section to the annular tire surface; c. means for establishing a relative rotation between the tire and the arm tooling means between an initial relative position and a terminal relative position; wherein the tooling means comprises: gripping means for engaging the sensor housing and placing the sensor housing at an indexed location on the annular tire surface; and d. guide means for engaging the annular antenna and progressively positioning the annular antenna section by section along the annular tire surface; and an adhesive applicator nozzle disposed between the guide means and the gripping means for progressive application of an adhesive material between sections of the annular antenna and the annular tire surface. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising means for disengaging the gripping means from the sensor housing prior to initiating relative rotation between the tire and the arm tooling means. 5. Apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising means for disengaging the guide means from the annular antenna as the tire and arm tooling means substantially reach the terminal relative position. 6. Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the guide means comprises at least two pivotal gripping fingers for receiving the annular antenna therebetween and maintaining the annular antenna in a preferred position relative to the annular tire surface. 7. Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein further comprising a remote pre-staging station for supporting the transponder unit at a preliminary stage, the arm remote end being located to move between the pre-staging station and the table for transporting the transponder unit to the tire on the table. 8. Apparatus for attaching an annular transponder unit to an annular tire surface, the transponder unit being of a type having a sensor housing coupled to an annular antenna, the apparatus comprising: a. a rotary turntable for supportably rotating a tire having an annular tire surface in an accessible disposition; b. an arm proximately disposed to the turntable and having substantially end-of-arm tooling for supporting a sensor housing section of the transponder unit against the annular tire surface and for supporting and attaching the transponder unit antenna section by section to the annular tire surface as the tire is rotated substantially one revolution, wherein the tooling comprises: a gripping mechanism for engaging the sensor housing and placing the sensor housing at a preselected location on the annular tire surface; a guide mechanism for engaging the annular antenna and positioning the annular antenna section by section along the annular tire surface as the tire is rotated. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8, further comprising an adhesive material applicator nozzle disposed between the guide mechanism and the gripping means for application of the adhesive material between the annular antenna and the annular tire surface as the tire is rotated. 10. Apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising a pre-staging station for supporting the transponder unit at a preliminary stage, the arm being located between the pre-staging station and the turntable for transporting the transponder unit from the pre-staging station to the turntable, and the gripping mechanism engaging the sensor housing at the pre-staging station and during the transport of the transponder unit from the pre-staging station to the turntable. 