A robotic surgery system comprises a mounting base, a plurality of surgical instruments, and an articulate support assembly. Each instrument is insertable into a patient through an associated minimally invasive aperture to a desired internal surgical site. The articulate support assembly movably supports the instruments relative to the base. The support generally comprises an orienting platform, a platform linkage movably supporting the orienting platform relative to the base, and a plurality of manipulators mounted to the orienting platform, wherein each manipulator movably supports an associated instrument.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic surgery system comprising: an orienting platform; a platform linkage movably supporting the orienting platform; and a plurality of manipulators mounted to the orienting platform, each manipulator movably supporting an associated surgical instrument insertable into a patient; wherein the platform linkage comprises a rail, a slidable carriage coupleable to the rail, and at least one rotational arm coupleable to the carriage on a proximal end and to the orienting platform on a distal end. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the platform linkage is supported and extends generally downward from a ceiling. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the platform linkage accommodates translation of the orienting platform in three dimensions. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the platform linkage accommodates rotation of the orienting platform about one axis. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of arms coupleable to the orienting platform, each arm movably supporting an associated manipulator and defining releasably fixable links and joints that are pre-configurable. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the orienting platform comprises four hubs rotationally coupleable to the plurality of arms and a fifth hub coupleable to the platform linkage, wherein the fifth hub is aligned with a pivot point and accommodates rotation of the orienting platform about the pivot point. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein each arm accommodates translation of the fixable links and joints in one dimension. 8. The system of claim 5, wherein each arm accommodates rotation of the fixable links and joints about two or three axes. 9. The system of claim 5, wherein each arm has no more than four degrees of freedom. 10. The system of claim 5, wherein the system comprises three arms for movably supporting instrument manipulators and one arm for movably supporting an image capture device manipulator. 11. The system of claim 5, wherein at least one arm includes at least one balanced, fixable, jointed parallelogram linkage structure extending between a pair of adjacent fixable rotational joints, the jointed parallelogram structure accommodating motion in a generally vertical direction, and the adjacent rotational joints accommodating pivotal motion about vertical axes. 12. The system of claim 5, further comprising a brake system, the brake system releasably inhibiting articulation of the fixable links and joints previously configured in at least substantially fixed configuration, wherein the brake system is biased toward the fixed configuration, the brake system including a brake release actuator for releasing the fixable links and joints to a repositionable configuration in which the fixable links and joints can be articulated. 13. The system of claim 5, further comprising a joint sensor system coupling a plurality of the fixable links and joints to a servomechanism, the sensor system generating joint configuration signals, wherein the servomechanism includes a computer and wherein the joint sensor system transmits the joint configuration signals to the computer. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer calculates a coordinate system transformation between a reference coordinate system and the instruments using the joint configuration signals. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one manipulator is mechanically constrained so that a manipulator base is at a fixed angle relative to horizontal. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one manipulator is angularly offset relative to horizontal in a range from about 45 degrees to about 50 degrees. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one manipulator is angularly offset relative to horizontal by about 15 degrees. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one manipulator is angularly offset relative to horizontal in a range from about 65 degrees to about 75 degrees. 19. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one manipulator comprises an offset remote center linkage for constraining spherical pivoting of the instrument about a pivot point in space. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the offset remote center manipulator comprises an articulate linkage assembly having a manipulator base rotationally coupled to a parallelogram linkage base for rotation about a first axis, the parallelogram linkage base coupled to an instrument holder by a plurality of driven links and joints, the driven links and joints defining a parallelogram so as to constrain an elongate shaft of the instrument relative to a pivot point when the instrument is mounted to the instrument holder and the shaft is moved in at least one degree of freedom, wherein the first axis and a first side of the parallelogram adjacent the parallelogram linkage base intersect the shaft at the pivot point, and the first side of the parallelogram is angularly offset from the first axis. 21. The system of claim 1, further comprising a display coupleable to the orienting platform. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the display comprises an interactive monitor. 23. A modular manipulator support for use in a robotic surgery system, the system comprising a plurality of manipulators defining driven links and joints for moving an associated instrument so as to manipulate tissues, the support comprising: an orienting platform; a platform linkage movably supporting the orienting platform; and a plurality of arms coupleable to the orienting platform, each arm movably supporting an associated manipulator and defining releasably fixable links and joints that are pre-configurable; wherein the platform linkage comprises a rail, a slidable carriage coupleable to the rail, and at least one rotational arm coupleable to the carriage on a proximal end and to the orienting platform on a distal end. 24. A robotic surgery system comprising: an orienting platform; a platform linkage movably supporting the orienting platform relative to a ceiling, wherein the platform linkage comprises a rail, a slidable carriage coupleable to the rail, and at least one rotational arm coupleable to the carriage on a proximal end and to the orienting platform on a distal end; a plurality of arms coupleable to the orienting platform, each arm defining releasably fixable links and joints that are pre-configurable; and a plurality of manipulators coupleable to the arms, each manipulator defining driven links and joints for moving the instruments so as to manipulate tissues. 