A method and apparatus for use with a system including a processor that controls a resource configuration to perform a sequence including a plurality of cells, the method for programming the processor to help a system operator restart the sequence after the sequence is halted, the method comprising the steps of, during a commissioning procedure, the method including the steps of providing a sequence including at least one conditional section including at least one decision cell that determines which of at least two different subsets of conditional cells (cell subsets) to perform during the at least one conditional section, beginning with the first sequence cell, performing each cell, after each cell is performed, identifying resource operating characteristics (ROCs), correlating the identified ROCs with a cell identifier and storing the identified ROCs as required ROCs along with the cell identifier for subsequent use during a restart procedure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for use with a system including a processor that controls a resource configuration to perform a sequence including a plurality of cells, the method for programming the processor to help a system operator restart the sequence after the sequence is halted, the method comprising the steps of, during a commissioning procedure: providing a sequence including at least one conditional section including at least one decision cell that determines which of at least two different subsets of conditional cells (cell subsets) to perform during the at least one conditional section; beginning with the first sequence cell, performing each cell; after each cell is performed: (i) identifying resource operating characteristics (ROCs); (ii) correlating the identified ROCs with a cell identifier; and (iii) storing the identified ROCs as required ROCs along with the cell identifier for subsequent use during a restart procedure. 2. The method of claim 1 also for aiding a system operator in restarting the sequence after the sequence halts, the method further including the steps of, after the sequence has halted during normal operation to control the resources, identifying at least one cell at which the sequence is to be restarted, accessing the stored identifier and ROCs associated with the selected cell and retrieving the required ROCs for the selected cell. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of identifying at least one cell includes receiving a cell selection from an operator. 4. The method of claim 2 further including the steps of identifying current ROCs for the resources, identifying differences between the required ROCs retrieved for the selected cell and current ROCs and presenting an error stack to the operator indicating the differences. 5. The method of claim 4 further including the step of providing an interface including a display screen for communicating with the operator, the interface including an error stack field and a flow chart field, the step of presenting the error stack including textually listing the differences in the error stack field, the method also including presenting a flow chart graphically illustrating at least a portion of the sequence in the flow chart field and at least one input device for selecting a cell from the flow chart. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the step of providing at least one input device further includes providing a control panel field on the display including touch sensitive icons for selecting flow chart cells. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the required ROCs for at least one cell subsequent to the at least one conditional section are dependent on which conditional path is performed and wherein the step of virtually performing each cell includes, for at least a subset of cells, virtually performing each cell at least twice, the step of identifying ROCs including, after each performance of the cell, identifying resource operating characteristics (ROCs), the step of correlating including, after each performance of the cell, correlating the identified ROCs with a cell identifier and one of the paths through the conditional section and the step of storing including, after each performance of the cell, storing the identified ROCs as required ROCs along with the cell identifier and a conditional path identifier for subsequent use during a restart procedure. 8. The method of claim 7 further including the step of requesting an operator to provide labels for each of the paths through the conditional section. 9. The method of claim 7 further including the steps of, after the sequence has halted during normal operation to control the resources, receiving a cell selection from a system operator indicating at least one of the cells at which to restart the sequence along with an indication for the at least one conditional section of a path to assume through the section; accessing the stored identifiers and ROCs associated with the selected cell and selected path and retrieving the required ROCs for the selected cell and selected path. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the sequence includes several conditional sections and wherein the required ROCs for at least one cell subsequent to the conditional sections are dependent on which conditional paths through the combination of conditional sections are performed and wherein the step of virtually performing each cell includes, for at least a subset of cells, virtually performing each cell several times, once for each of at least a subset of the possible combinations of conditional paths, the step of identifying ROCs including, after each performance of the cell, identifying resource operating characteristics (ROCs), the step of correlating including, after each performance of the cell, correlating the identified ROCs with a cell identifier and one of the path subsets through the conditional sections and the step of storing including, after each performance of the cell, storing the identified ROCs as required ROCs along with the cell identifier and a conditional path specification indicating the paths through the conditional sections for subsequent use during a restart procedure. 11. The method of claim 9 further including the steps of identifying current ROCs for the resources, identifying differences between the required ROCs retrieved for the selected cell and conditional section path and current ROCs and presenting an error stack to the operator indicating the differences. 12. The method of claim 11 further including the step of providing an interface including a display screen for communicating with the operator, the interface including an error stack field and a flow chart field, the step of presenting the error stack including textually listing the differences in the error stack field, the method also including presenting a flow chart graphically illustrating at least a portion of the sequence in the flow chart field and at least one input device for selecting a cell from the flow chart. 13. The method of claim 1 further including the step of, during the commissioning procedure, for at least a subset of the conditional sections, requesting the operator to select one path through the conditional section to be assumed during a restart procedure. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the step of virtually performing each cell includes performing each cell subsequent to the selected path assuming the selected path has occurred. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of performing the sequence includes virtually performing the sequence. 16. A method for use with a processor that controls a resource configuration to execute a sequence that includes a plurality of cells, the method for generating a database including resource operating characteristics (ROCs) associated with each of the cells that are required prior to the process being restarted at the associated cells, the method comprising the steps of, during a commissioning procedure: (a) executing the sequence cells in the order specified by the sequence; and (b) for each cell: (1) determining the ROCs after executing the cell; (2) correlating the ROCs and the cell; and (3) storing the correlated ROCs and cell in the database for subsequent use. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein the sequence includes at least one conditional section including at least one decision cell that determines which of at least two subsets of conditional cells (cell subsets) to perform during the at least one section wherein ROCs at the ends of the cell subsets are distinct and may affect subsequent cells, the method further including the steps of, for the at least one conditional section, when the conditional section occurs during performance of the sequence, requesting the operator to select one of the cell subsets as a default cell subset to be assumed when the sequence stops during subsequent resource operation. 18. The method of claim 17 further including the step of, after a default cell subset has been selected, performing the default cell subset to identify cell subset ROCs that exist upon completion of the cell subset and correlating and storing the cell subset ROCs with the conditional section for subsequent use. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein, after the cell subset ROCs are stored with the conditional section, the method further includes continuing to perform the sequence via the processor assuming the cell subset ROCs occur at the end of the at least one conditional section to generate ROCs for cells subsequent to the at least one conditional section. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein there are several conditional loops and wherein the process is repeated for each of the conditional loops. 21. The method of claim 16 also for subsequent use when the processor runs the sequence and controls the resource configuration to identify ROCs required to restart the resource configuration at a cell after the resource configuration unexpectedly stops, the method further including the step of, when the resource configuration stops while performing the sequence, identifying one of the cells during which the resource configuration should restart operations. 22. The method of claim 21 further including the steps of identifying the current ROCs, comparing the current ROCs to the ROCs in the database to identify a most similar ROC set including ROCs associated with a cell that are most similar to the current ROCs and indicating at least some status information to an operator via a visual display regarding the current ROCs. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the step of identifying one of the cells includes the step of receiving a selection from the operator indicating one of the cells at which to restart the process. 24. A method for use with a processor that controls a resource configuration to perform a sequence that includes a plurality of cells where there are cell specific resource operating characteristics (ROCs) that are required prior to associated cells being performed, the method for guiding a configuration operator to place the resources in a condition suitable for restarting the sequence after the sequence is stopped, the method comprising the steps of, when the sequence stops during a first cell: (a) providing a database that correlates cells with cell specific ROCs (cell ROCs) required to restart the sequence at the associated cell; (b) identifying a cell at which to restart the process; (c) accessing the database and identifying the cell ROCs associated with the identified cell; (d) identifying the current ROCs; (e) comparing the current ROCs and the identified cell ROCs to identify differences; and (f) where differences exist, indicating the differences to a system operator. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein the step of identifying a cell at which to restart includes receiving an indication from the system operator indicating one of the cells at which to restart. 26. The method of claim 25 also for use with a visual display wherein the step of receiving an indication includes receiving an indication via the display. 27. The method of claim 26 further including the step of presenting a flow chart representation of the cells to the operator via the display and requesting that the operator select the cell at which to restart from the flow chart. 28. The method of claim 24 wherein the step of indicating the differences includes providing instructions to the operator indicating the resource conditions that have to be altered for the current ROCs to be identical to the cell ROCs. 29. The method of claim 24 wherein the step of identifying a cell at which to restart includes comparing the current ROCs to at least a subset of the cell ROCs stored in the database to identify a most similar cell ROC set that includes resource characteristics that are most similar to the current ROCs and identifying the cell associated with the most similar cell ROCs as the cell at which to restart the sequence. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein the step of indicating the differences includes providing instructions to the operator indicating the resource conditions that have to be altered for the current ROCs to be identical to the most similar cell ROCs. 31. The method of claim 24 wherein the step of identifying a cell at which to restart the process includes identifying a cell other than the first cell. 32. A method for use with a processor that controls a resource configuration to perform a sequence where the sequence includes a plurality of cells where cell specific resource operating characteristics (ROCs) are required prior to associated cells being performed, the method comprising the steps of: (a) during a commissioning procedure: (1) for at least a subset of conditional sections of the sequence, requesting information from an operator regarding at least two paths through the conditional section; (2) performing the sequence via the processor to identify cell specific ROCs (cell ROCs) for each of the cells as a function of the information regarding the at least two paths; and (2) storing each of the cell ROCs with associated cell identifiers and conditional section path identifiers in a database; and (b) subsequent to the commissioning procedure and during performance of the program to control the resources to perform the sequence, when the sequence halts, using the database to identify required ROCs that are required to restart the sequence. 33. The method of claim 32 further including the step of, when the sequence halts, for at least one of the conditional sections, requesting the operator to specify one of the at least two paths through the conditional section, receiving the specified path and identifying a cell at which to restart the sequence, the step of using the database to identify required ROCs including using the specified path and cell to identify the required ROCs. 34. The method of claim 33 wherein the step of using the database to identify the required ROCs includes receiving an indication from a system operator indicating one of the cells at which to restart the sequence, accessing the database and identifying the ROCs associated with the selected cell and the specified path as the required ROCs. 35. A method for use with a processor that controls a resource configuration to perform a sequence that includes a plurality of cells where there are cell specific resource operating characteristics (ROCs) that are required prior to associated cells being performed, the method for guiding a configuration operator to place the resources in a condition suitable for restarting the sequence after the sequence is stopped, the method comprising the steps of, when the sequence stops at a first cell or first set of cells: proving a graphical representation of at least a subset of the sequence cells via a display; receiving a selection of at least one of the displayed cells from a system operator other than the first cell or set of cells at which to restart the sequence; and identifying ROCs required for restarting the sequence at the at least one selected cell. 36. The method of claim 35 wherein the step of providing a graphical representation includes providing a flow chart from which sequence cells may be selected. 37. The method of claim 35 also for use with a database that correlates cells with the cell specific ROCs (cell ROCs) required to restart the process at associated cells, the step of identifying ROCs required to restart including accessing the database and identifying ROCs associated with the at least one selected cell. 38. The method of claim 35 further including the steps of identifying current ROCs for the resources, identifying differences between the required ROCs identified for the at least one selected cell and current ROCs and presenting an error stack to the operator indicating the differences. 39. A method for use with a processor that controls a resource configuration to perform a sequence that includes a plurality of cells where there are cell specific resource operating characteristics (ROCs) that are required prior to associated cells being performed, the method for guiding a configuration operator to place the resources in a condition suitable for restarting the sequence after the sequence is stopped, the method comprising the steps of, when the sequence halts: identifying the current resource ROCs; graphically representing at least a section of the sequence including the at least one cell at which the sequence halted via a display screen; providing a selection tool for selecting at least one graphically represented cell; when one of the cells is selected via the selection tool: (i) identifying ROCs required to restart the sequence at the selected cell; (ii) comparing the current and required ROCs to identify differences; and (iii) providing at least some indication regarding the results of the comparison of the current and required ROCs. 40. The method of claim 39 wherein the step of graphically representing includes visually distinguishing the at least one cell at which the sequence halted from the other graphically represented cells. 41. The method of claim 39 wherein the step of graphically representing includes presenting at least a section of the sequence in flow chart form where the flow chart includes a separate cell representation for each of the sequence cells in the displayed section. 42. The method of claim 41 wherein the step of providing at least some indication includes, when the current and required ROCs match, visually distinguishing the selected cell from the other cells represented on the display. 43. The method of claim 42 wherein the step of providing at least some indication includes, when the current and required ROCs are different, visually distinguishing the selected cell from the other cells represented on the display in a manner different than the manner in which the selected cell is distinguished when the current and required ROCs match. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein the step of graphically representing includes visually distinguishing the at least one cell at which the sequence halted from the other graphically represented cells in a manner different than the manner in which the selected cells are distinguished when the current and required ROCs match and in a manner different than the manner in which the selected cells are distinguished when the current and required ROCs are different. 45. The method of claim 44 wherein, when the current and required ROCs match, the selected cell is visually distinguished by rendering the cell representation in a first color, when the current and required ROCs are different, the selected cell is visually distinguished by rendering the cell representation in a second color and wherein the at least one cell at which the sequence halted is rendered in a third color. 