A user interface system comprises a plurality of linkages connected between a platform and a base. The linkages permit motion of the platform over at least a portion of a spherical surface. A support assembly coupled between the platform and the base comprises a spherical joint having a center of rotation substantially concentric with a center of the spherical surface. The spherical joint constrains motion of the platform to the spherical surface. The system may include a sensor corresponding to each linkage. Each sensor may be coupled to sense a movement of its corresponding linkage in response to motion of the platform over the portion of the spherical surface. A user-manipulable handle may be coupled to the platform so that the user can move the platform.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A user interface system comprising: a plurality of linkages connected between a platform and a base, the linkages connected to constrain motion of the platform over at least a portion of a spherical surface; a support assembly comprising a spherical joint having a centre of rotation substantially concentric with the spherical surface, the spherical joint acting to constrain motion of the platform to the portion of the spherical surface; and a plurality of sensors coupled to detect motion of the platform over the portion of the spherical surface, wherein the plurality of linkages comprises three linkages, each of the three linkages comprising: a primary link pivotally coupled to the platform via a primary pivot joint; and a secondary link pivotally coupled to a mount that extends from the base via a secondary pivot joint and pivotally coupled to the primary link via an intermediate pivot joint. 2. A system according to claim 1 comprising a user-manipulable handle coupled to the platform. 3. A system according to claim 2 wherein user manipulation of the handle causes corresponding movement of the platform over the portion of the spherical surface. 4. A system according to claim 2 wherein the user-manipulable handle is moveably coupled to the platform via a longitudinally extending shaft and wherein the user-manipulable handle is moveable relative to the platform in a direction of a longitudinal shaft axis. 5. A system according to claim 4 comprising a handle-position sensor coupled to detect a position of the user-manipulable handle along the longitudinal shaft axis. 6. A system according to claim 5 comprising a handle-position actuator operationally coupled to exert a force which tends to move the user-manipulable handle along the longitudinal shaft axis. 7. A system according to claim 6 comprising a processor configured to: receive one or more signals representing the position of the user-manipulable handle along the longitudinal shaft axis from the handle-position sensor; determine one or more actuator drive signals representing force feedback based at least in part on the one or more signals from the handle-position sensor; and provide the one or more actuator drive signals to the handle-position actuator. 8. A system according to claim 4 wherein the user-manipulable handle comprises one or more finger grips for receiving a user's finger. 9. A system according to claim 8 wherein the one or more finger grips are coupled to a first pivot joint for pivotal movement about a first pivot axis relative to other components of the user-manipulable handle. 10. A system according to claim 9 comprising a first finger-grip sensor coupled to detect an angular position of the finger grips about the first pivot axis. 11. A system according to claim 10 comprising a first finger-grip actuator operationally coupled to exert a torque which tends to pivot the finger grips about the first pivot axis. 12. A system according to claim 11 comprising a processor configured to: receive one or more signals representing the angular position of the finger grips about the first pivot axis from the first finger-grip sensor; determine one or more actuator drive signals representing force feedback based at least in part on the one or more signals from the first finger-grip sensor; and provide the one or more actuator drive signals to the first finger-grip actuator. 13. A system according to claim 1 wherein the spherical joint comprises a ball and socket joint, a center of the ball being the centre of rotation. 14. A system according to claim 1 wherein the support assembly comprises at least one first component which extends from the base in a direction toward the platform and at least one second component that extends from the platform in a direction toward the base. 15. A system according to claim 14 wherein one of the first support member and the second support member comprises a convex surface and the other one of the first support member and the second support member comprises a concave surface for slidable movement along the convex surface. 16. A system according to claim 14 wherein the spherical joint comprises a ball located between the at least one first component and the at least one second component and wherein a centre of the ball is the centre of rotation. 17. A system according to 16 wherein the at least one first component comprises a corresponding first concave surface for slidable movement along a surface of the ball and wherein the at least one second component comprises a corresponding second concave surface for slidable movement along a surface of the ball. 18. A system according to claim 16 wherein the ball is rigidly connected to one of: the at least one first component; and the at least one second component; and wherein the other one of the at least one first component and the at least one second component comprises a concave surface for slidable movement along a surface of the ball. 19. A system according claim 1 wherein the plurality of sensors comprises at least one sensor corresponding to each of the plurality of linkages, the at least one sensor coupled to sense movement of its corresponding linkage in response to motion of the platform. 20. A system according to claim 19 wherein each linkage comprises at least one corresponding pivot joint and the at least one sensor corresponding to each linkage is coupled to detect an angular configuration of the at least one corresponding pivot joint. 21. A system according to claim 20 comprising a plurality of actuators, the plurality of actuators comprising at least one actuator corresponding to each linkage, the at least one actuator corresponding to each linkage operationally connected to apply torque to the at least one corresponding pivot joint. 22. A system according to claim 21 comprising a processor configured to: receive signals representing position information from the plurality of sensors; determine actuator drive signals representing force feedback based at least in part on the signals representing position information; and provide the actuator drive signals to the at least one actuator corresponding to each of the linkages. 23. A user interface system according to claim 1 comprising an actuator operationally coupled to each of the linkages for providing force feedback with a controllably variable magnitude to the platform. 24. A user interface system according to claim 1 wherein the linkages are configured to establish a plurality of equilibrium positions of the platform. 25. A system according to claim 1 wherein primary axes of the primary pivot joints, secondary axes of the secondary pivot joints and intermediate axes of the intermediate pivot joints intersect at the centre of rotation. 26. A system according to claim 25 comprising at least one actuator corresponding to each of the three linkages, the at least one actuator corresponding to each of the three linkages operationally connected to apply torque to at least one of: the primary pivot joint; the secondary pivot joint; and the intermediate pivot joint. 27. A user interface system comprising: a plurality of linkages connected between a platform and a base, the linkages connected to constrain motion of the platform over at least a portion of a spherical surface; a support assembly comprising a spherical joint having a centre of rotation substantially concentric with the spherical surface, the spherical joint acting to constrain motion of the platform to the portion of the spherical surface; and a plurality of sensors coupled to detect motion of the platform over the portion of the spherical surface; wherein the plurality of sensors comprises at least one sensor corresponding to each of the plurality of linkages, the at least one sensor coupled to sense movement of its corresponding linkage in response to motion of the platform; and wherein the plurality of linkages comprises three linkages, each of the three linkages comprising: a primary link pivotally coupled to the platform via a primary pivot joint; and a secondary link pivotally coupled to a mount that extends from the base via a secondary pivot joint and pivotally coupled to the primary link via an intermediate pivot joint. 28. A system according to claim 27 wherein primary axes of the primary pivot joints, secondary axes of the secondary pivot joints and intermediate axes of the intermediate pivot joints intersect at the centre of rotation. 29. A system according to claim 28 wherein the at least one sensor corresponding to each linkage is coupled to detect an angular configuration of at least one of: the primary pivot joint; the secondary pivot joint; and the intermediate pivot joint. 30. A system according to claim 29 comprising at least one actuator corresponding to each of the three linkages, the at least one actuator corresponding to each of the three linkages operationally connected to apply torque to at least one of: the primary pivot joint; the secondary pivot joint; and the intermediate pivot joint. 