An end effector for a robot having an array of suction cups includes an air control valve connected to each suction cup. Each valve can be individually operated so that specific zones of suction cups may be activated while others are dormant. The dormant suction cups are closed to the sub-atmospheric pressure, so that leakage of air through unused suction cups is avoided, while only the suction cups of the selected zone perform the picking of the work products. This allows the end effector to provide accurate and constant sub-atmospheric pressure to the work products during the picking process.
Claims Therefore, having thus described the invention, at least the following is claimed: 1. An end effector for retrieving work products in sequential picks from an accumulation of work products, with the retrieved work products placed in different orientations on an array of vacuum retrievers of the end effector and for placing the retrieved work products in a selected pattern in a receptacle, the end effector comprising: a vacuum plenum housing for maintaining a sub-atmospheric pressure, the array of vacuum retrievers in communication with the vacuum plenum housing for engaging the work products, means for selecting a zone of the vacuum retrievers, an air control means connected to each of the vacuum retrievers for applying the sub-atmospheric air pressure of the vacuum plenum housing to each of the vacuum retrievers in the selected zone of the vacuum retrievers that are to retrieve the work products, while avoiding an application of the sub-atmospheric air pressure of the vacuum plenum housing to the vacuum retrievers that are in engagement with the work products and are not in the selected zone of the vacuum retrievers and for accumulating the work products in the different orientations on said vacuum retrievers. 2. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the vacuum retrievers are corrugated suction cups. 3. The end effector of claim 1, and further including a robot connected to the end effector for moving said end effector into predetermined attitudes with respect to the accumulation of work products to gather the work products from the accumulation of the work products in the different orientations on the vacuum retrievers. 4. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said vacuum plenum housing further comprises: an outer perimeter; compressive surfaces mounted along said outer perimeter positionable for lateral compression of said work products retrieved on said vacuum plenum housing. 5. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said vacuum plenum housing defines an array of air passages, each of said air passages positioned for forming an air flow between the vacuum retrievers and the vacuum housing. 6. The end effector of claim 5, wherein said air control means further comprises: a plurality of air-pressurized plug actuators, each of said plug actuators aligned over one of said air passages and including a valve stem, and a plurality of plug members, each of said plug members attached to one of said valve stems and configured for closing one of said air passages upon selective extension of said valve stem. 7. The end effector of claim 1, wherein said air control means comprises plugs each independently positionable for opening and closing air flow between the vacuum plenum housing and selected ones of the vacuum retrievers. 8. The end effector of claim 7 wherein said air control means further comprises a plug actuator for each of said plugs for selectively extending and retracting said plugs for closing and opening selected ones of said air passages. 9. The end effector of claim 8, wherein said air control means further comprises a valve bank unit mounted on said vacuum plenum housing and connected to each of said plug actuators for controlling pressurized airflow to selected ones of the plugs. 10. The end effector of claim 9, further comprising means for connecting said valve bank unit to a pressurized air supply. 11. The end effector of claim 1, wherein each of said vacuum retrievers comprises: a suction cup configured for contracting in response to engagement by the suction cup against one of said work products, the suction cup including an open distal end and a proximal end comprising a valve seat. 12. The end effector of claim 1, and further including compressive surfaces movably mounted to said vacuum plenum for laterally pushing together the work products retrieved by the actuator. 13. An end effector for a robot for retrieving work products on the end effector in a selected pattern in sequential picks from an accumulation of work products with the retrieved work products placed in different orientations with respect to one another on the end effector and for placing the retrieved work products in a selected pattern in a receptacle, the end effector comprising: a vacuum plenum housing for containing a sub-atmospheric air pressure, the array of vacuum retrievers suspended from the vacuum plenum housing for engaging the work products, air control means for applying the sub-atmospheric air pressure of said vacuum source to less than all of said vacuum retrievers that are in engagement with said accumulated array of work products for selecting a zone of the vacuum retrievers and individually applying a sub-atmospheric air pressure of the vacuum plenum housing to each of the vacuum retrievers in the selected zone of the vacuum retrievers and for blocking the sub-atmospheric air pressure of the vacuum plenum housing from the vacuum retrievers in engagement with the work products not in the selected zone of the vacuum retrievers, and for picking the work products in the selected zone, while avoiding picking the work products engaged by the vacuum retrievers not in the selected zone of the vacuum retrievers. 14. An end effector for retrieving work products in a selected pattern from an accumulated array of work products and for placing the retrieved work products in the selected pattern in a receptacle, said end effector comprising: a vacuum source for maintaining a sub-atmospheric air pressure, an array of vacuum retrievers for engaging the work products, means for applying the array of vacuum retrievers to the accumulated array of work products, valve means for applying the sub-atmospheric air pressure of said vacuum source to less than all of said vacuum retrievers that are applied to said accumulated array of work products. 15. The end effector of claim 14, wherein said vacuum retrievers comprise bellowed suction cups, said valve means for applying the sub-atmospheric air pressure of said vacuum source to less than all of said vacuum retrievers that are applied to said accumulated array of work products comprises a plug for selectively blocking the application of the sub-atmospheric air pressure to said suction cups. 16. The end effector of claim 14, wherein said valve means for applying the sub-atmospheric air pressure of said vacuum plenum to less than all of said vacuum retrievers comprises: a plurality of air control means, wherein each of the air control means is connected to one of said vacuum retrievers and is constructed for blocking the application of the sub-atmospheric air pressure of the vacuum plenum housing to the vacuum retrievers. 