Method of forming a curved composite structure are provided. In one embodiment, the method includes contacting at least one ply of preimpregnated material on a first surface of a curved mandrel. The first surface of the mandrel has a first radius of curvature. The mandrel further has at least one second surface that has a second radius of curvature. A tension gradient is introduced on the ply adjacent to the first radius of curvature and the ply is then pressed over the curved mandrel to form the curved composite structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of forming a curved composite structure, the method comprising: contacting at least one ply of preimpregnated material on a first surface of an elongated mandrel, the first surface of the mandrel having a first radius of curvature along a length of the elongated mandrel, the mandrel further having at least one second surface having a second radius of curvature along the length of the elongated mandrel; introducing a tension gradient on the ply adjacent to the first radius of curvature; and pressing the ply over the curved mandrel to form the curved composite structure. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first radius of curvature is less than the second radius of curvature. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one ply of preimpregnated material has an orientation based on anticipated loading and stresses on the elongated member. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the at least one ply of preimpregnated material is a plurality of plies of preimpregnated material, at least one ply of the plurality of plies having a different fiber orientation than another ply of the plurality of the plies. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the curved mandrel has a varied cross-sectional geometry. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the cross-sectional geometry varies in width. 7. A method of forming a curved composite structure, the method comprising: contacting at least one ply of preimpregnated material on a first edge of an elongated mandrel, the first edge of the mandrel having a first radius of curvature along a length of the elongated mandrel, the mandrel further having at least one second edge having a second radius of curvature along the length of the elongated mandrel; introducing a tension gradient on the ply adjacent to the first radius of curvature; and pressing the ply over the curved mandrel to form the curved composite structure. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first radius of curvature is less than the second radius of curvature. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the at least one ply of preimpregnated material has an orientation based on anticipated loading and stresses on the elongated member. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the at least one ply of preimpregnated material is a plurality of plies of preimpregnated material, at least one ply of the plurality of plies having a different fiber orientation than another ply of the plurality of the plies. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the curved mandrel has a varied cross-sectional geometry. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the cross-sectional geometry varies along a width. 13. The method of claim 7, further comprising: using at least one squeegee to form the curved composite structure. 