The problems inherent with connecting a DUT to a test station have been solved by the use of a tray designed to allow a wide variety of different DUTs to be physically connected individually to a test station using a universal test station connector. The tray allows for the association therewith of a personality module which serves to provide the proper physical connections and to electrically condition the test station to the electrical characteristics of the DUT. The tray allows for sealed environmental testing of the DUT without impacting any physical connections between the DUT and the test station. The tray also allows for the DUT to be vibrated from externally applied motion without interfering with either the sealed environment around the DUT and without imparting motion to the physical connection between the DUT and the test station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tray for holding a device under test (DUT), said tray comprising: at least one DUT confined area; at least one opening extending from said confined area to an area outside of said confined area; and at least one pedestal positioned within said confined area, said pedestal having a portion communicating with the area outside of said confined area via said opening, wherein said communicating portion removably mates with a movable portion of a vibrating device in the area outside of said confined area. 2. The tray of claim 1 wherein said pedestal is adapted to allow said DUT to be releasably mated therewith. 3. The tray of claim 1 further comprising: means for allowing said tray to be thermally sealed over said confined area. 4. The tray of claim 3 wherein said allowing means comprises: means for allowing air to flow into said confined area; and means for allowing a flexible covering to be connected to said tray around said confined area. 5. The tray of claim 1 wherein said communicating portion of said pedestal comprises a portion adapted for temporary vacuum sealing against a moving portion of said vibrating device. 6. A tray for holding a device under test (DUT), the tray comprising: at least one DUT confined area; at least one opening extending from the confined area to an area outside of the confined area; and at least one pedestal positioned within the confined area, the pedestal having a portion communicating with the area outside of the confined area via the opening, a distal end of the communicating portion being adapted to removably mate with a movable portion of a vibrating device in the area outside of the confined area, wherein the pedestal is adapted to allow the DUT to be releasably mated therewith, and wherein the pedestal rests on a base of the tray when the vibrating device is mated but not activated and wherein the pedestal can float free of the tray base when the vibrating device is mated and activated. 7. The tray of claim 6 further comprising: a thermal barrier for thermally sealing the communicating portion to reduce thermal leaks. 8. The tray of claim 6 further comprising: a covering for thermally sealing the tray over the confined area. 9. The tray of claim 8 wherein the covering comprises a flexible covering connectable to the tray around the confined area. 10. The tray of claim 9 further comprising a duct for allowing air to flow into the confined area. 11. The tray of claim 6 wherein the communicating portion of the pedestal comprises a portion adapted for temporary vacuum sealing against a moving portion of the vibrating device. 12. A tray for holding a device under test (DUT), the tray comprising: at least one DUT confined area; at least one opening extending from the confined area to an area outside of the confined area; at least one pedestal positioned within the confined area, the pedestal having a portion communicating with the area outside of the confined area via the opening, wherein a distal end of the communicating portion is adapted to removably mate with a movable portion of a vibrating device in the area outside of the confined area; and means for thermally sealing the communicating portion such that thermal leaks are minimized. 13. The tray of claim 12, further comprising a base on which the pedestal rests when the vibrating device is mated but not activated, wherein the pedestal floats free of the base when the vibrating device is mated and activated. 14. The tray of claim 12 further comprising: a covering for thermally sealing the tray over the confined area. 15. The tray of claim 14 wherein the covering comprises a flexible covering connectable to the tray around the confined area. 16. The tray of claim 15 further comprising a duct for allowing air to flow into the confined area. 17. The tray of claim 12 wherein the communicating portion of the pedestal comprises a portion adapted for temporary vacuum sealing against a moving portion of the vibrating device. 