An ink ejection printhead includes an elongate support frame supporting ink ejection printhead modules. An end plate is mounted to an end of the support frame and defines a guide arrangement. A connector arrangement is supported by the guide arrangement and includes a body portion defining a pair of holes. The connector arrangement includes a first connector extending from the body portion between the holes. The connector arrangement also includes a second connector configured to engage with the holes so that the first connector is located between the second connector and the body portion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ink ejection printhead comprising: an elongate support frame supporting ink ejection printhead modules; an end plate mounted to an end of the support frame and defining a guide arrangement; and a connector arrangement supported by the guide arrangement and including a body portion defining a pair of holes, the connector arrangement including a first connector extending from the body portion between the holes and a second connector configured to engage with the holes so that the first connector is located between the second connector and the body portion. 2. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first connector is an electrical connector and the second connector is a fluid delivery connector. 3. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 2, wherein the first connector is a data connection connector, and the connector arrangement further includes a power supply connector extending from the body portion at a location adjacent the data connection connector. 4. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 2, wherein the end plate further defines another guide arrangement cradling fluid delivery tubes extending from the fluid delivery connector. 5. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 2, wherein the fluid delivery connector includes: a bridge that extends across the first connector and that bears connection tubes; and a pair of retaining clips extending from the bridge and that engage with the holes. 6. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 1, wherein the guide arrangement includes two guide recesses in which the connector arrangement is received. 7. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 1, in which an end housing defines openings and is mounted to the end plate so that the connectors are accessible through respective openings. 8. An ink ejection printhead as claimed in claim 1, wherein the support frame defines an elongate channel in which the printhead modules are serially aligned. 