An all-terrain mobile robot comprising a mobile robotic platform, having either wheels or tank-treaded-like legs capable of navigating over rough terrain, wherein the robotic platform utilizes dynamic balancing behavior; a hydraulic powered anthropomorphic torso and articulated arms, wherein the hydraulic system possesses a pressure sensor for enabling the anthropomorphic torso and articulated arms to lift a payload using acute and delicate movements that reduce the chance of causing structural harm to the payload.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A mobile robot platform comprising: a mobility platform; a base connected to said mobility platform; and a locomotion mechanism connected to said base, said locomotion mechanism configured to enable dynamic balancing of the robot platform. 2. The mobile robot platform of claim 1 wherein said locomotion mechanism comprises: an axle connected to said base; and at least one wheel affixed to said axle. 3. The mobile robot platform of claim 1 wherein said locomotion mechanism comprises at least one independent leg, said at least one independent leg comprising at least one leg segment, wherein at least one of said at least one leg segments comprises a tank-like tread. 4. The mobile robot platform of claim 3, wherein said at least one independent leg comprises two independent legs. 5. The mobile robot platform of claim 3, wherein said at least one independent leg comprises four independent legs. 6. The mobile robot platform of claim 5 wherein each of said independent legs consists of an upper leg segment and a lower leg segment. 7. The mobile robot platform of claim 6, wherein said upper leg segment and said lower leg segments comprises an actuated tread. 8. The mobile robot platform robot platform of claim 7 further comprising: a revolute joint connecting said upper leg segment to said lower leg segment; and at least one revolute joint connecting said upper leg segment and said lower leg segment to said mobility platform. 9. The mobile robot platform of claim 8, wherein said leg segments provide active suspension over uneven terrain, by independently varying each leg's distance from said mobility platform to a point of contact for each actuated tread with an uneven surface, while keeping said mobility platform in an upright orientation. 10. The mobile robot platform of claim 9 further comprising at least one articulated arm, said at least one articulated arm being configured to support and manipulate at least one payload. 11. The mobile robot platform of claim 10, wherein said treads, leg segments, joints and said at least one articulate arms are configured to exhibit dynamic balancing behavior, allowing said mobile robot platform to assume both a kneeling position and a standing position in a stable manner, even in the presence of one or more external forces. 12. The mobile robot platform of claim 1 further comprising: an anthropomorphic torso; and a plurality of articulated arms, said plurality of articulated arms being configured to support and manipulate at least one payload. 13. The mobile robot platform of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of sensors, said plurality of sensors comprising: at least one video sensor; at least one IR sensor; at least one audio sensor; at least one GPS sensor; and at least one laser range finder. 14. The mobile robot platform of claim 13 wherein said plurality of sensors are housed within an anthropomorphic head. 15. The mobile robot platform of claim 14, wherein said legs, arms, head, and/or torso are actuated via a hydraulic system. 16. The mobile robot platform of claim 15, wherein said hydraulic system comprises a plurality of force/pressure sensors, said force/pressure sensors enabling compliant control of a plurality of joints. 17. The mobile robot platform of claim 16, wherein said force/pressure sensors are configured to enable said mobile robot platform to lift a payload using movements that reduce the chance of causing structural harm to the payload. 18. The mobile robot platform of claims 17, wherein said mobile robot platform is controlled using a remote control system. 19. The mobile robot platform of claim 18 further comprising a remote control system, said remote control system being configured to allow a user to direct said mobile robot platform to a location where a human being is located. 20. The mobile robot platform of claim 19, wherein said mobile robot platform executes a medical protocol, said medical protocol comprising at least one of administering medication, applying one or more inflatable splints, utilizing vacuum mattresses and/or backboards to lift and/or transport a wounded human. 21. The mobile robot platform of claim 20 further comprising a Joint Architecture for Unmanned Systems (JAUS) compatible software architecture. 22. The mobile robot platform of claim 21 further comprising a JAUS-compatible Operator Control Unit. 23. The mobile robot platform of claim 1 wherein the dynamic balancing is provided in a forward-backward direction and at least one other direction. 