The invention disclosed herein is a novel Home Lift Position and Rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus designed to provide stable movement along several critical axes of motion including lift capability. The HLPR apparatus is capable of moving along a desired floor path ("x-axis"), moving on a vertical axis to lift a patient ("z-axis"), rotating the HLPR apparatus itself (along an "outer rotational axis"), and rotating a patient within the HLPR apparatus while the HLPR apparatus itself remains stationary (along an "inner rotational axis"). The telescoping, double-nested C-frame structure of the HLPR apparatus and pivot assembly allow any patient support structure known in the art to be suspended securely and to move in a stable, torque-resistant manner to assist patients in rehabilitation and in independently performing activities of daily living.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus capable of movement along an x-axis, z-axis, extended z-axis, inner rotational axis and y-axis comprised of: an outer telescoping curved tubular base frame adapted to receive a tubular shaft; a wheel assembly comprised of at least one wheel mounted in a wheel base housing and attached to said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame; an inner curved tubular patient support frame having an overhead component adapted to receive a tubular shaft and pivotally nested within said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame; a torque resistant pivot assembly comprised of a tubular shaft having a diameter of four to forty inches, said tubular shaft pivotally suspended into said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame and said inner curved tubular patient support frame, pivotally securing said inner curved tubular patient support frame to said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame, and secured by a weight-bearing circular ring attached to said tubular shaft and secured by a securing component; and a patient support structure mounted to a lift plate which is securely attached to said outer curved tubular base frame. 2. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 which further includes at least one control set selected from a group consisting of a manually operated device, a lever, a joystick, a steering wheel, a computer interface, a voice activated, control a sensor, a sip-and-puff device, and an encoder. 3. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 wherein said lift plate is moved vertically by an actuator selected from a group consisting of an electric actuator, a motor, a hydraulic cylinder and a linear actuator. 4. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 wherein said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame is comprised of an upper vertical frame member and a lower vertical frame member. 5. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 wherein said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame is comprised of an upper vertical frame member having a first track structure and a lower vertical frame member having a second track structure, wherein said upper vertical frame member and said lower vertical frame member are movably attached along said first and second track structures. 6. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 wherein said torque resistant pivot assembly further includes at least one optional bearing ring positioned at a point between two components selected from a group consisting of said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame, said inner curved tubular patient support frame and said securing component. 7. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 wherein said torque resistant pivot assembly further includes at least one strengthening plate. 8. The home lift position and rehabilitation, (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 wherein said patient support structure is a seat component which is fixably attached to said inner curved tubular patient support frame, and said inner curved tubular patient support frame is capable of moving along an inner rotational axis while said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame remains stationary. 9. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 8 that further includes a seat assembly that allows said seat component to retract from a horizontal to a vertical position and return to a horizontal position. 10. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 9 which further includes a spring assembly. 11. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 9 which further includes a seat sensor. 12. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 9 wherein said seat assembly further includes a seat actuator selected from a group consisting of an electric actuator, a motor, a hydraulic cylinder and a linear actuator. 13. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 which further includes at least one patient support structure selected from a group consisting of a chair, a stool, bed, table, examination table, gurney, cot, platform, hammock, sling support, sling support configuration, surgical table, partial seat support apparatus, walker, arm rest, and combinations thereof. 14. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 which further includes a footrest capable of retracting and pivoting from a horizontal to a vertical position: and returning to said horizontal position. 15. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 14 which further includes a footrest sensor. 16. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 14 which further includes a footrest actuator selected from a group consisting of an electric actuator, a motor, a hydraulic cylinder and a linear actuator. 17. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 which further includes a drive motor. 18. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 which further includes at least one mechanical lift component selected from a group consisting of at least one cable and winch assembly and at least one pulley. 19. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 which further includes at least one pulley. 20. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 1 wherein said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame further includes at least one telescoping horizontal overhead component. 21. A torque-resistant home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus capable of movement along an x-axis, z-axis, extended z-axis, inner rotational axis and y-axis comprised of: an outer telescoping curved tubular base frame constructed of at least one lightweight, torque-resistant bent metal tubing component adapted to receive a tubular shaft; a wheel assembly comprised of at least one drive wheel and at least one non-drive wheel and attached to said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame; an inner curved tubular patient support frame constructed of lightweight, torque-resistant bent metal tubing having an overhead component adapted to receive a tubular shaft and pivotally nested within said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame; a torque resistant pivot assembly comprised of a tubular shaft having a diameter of four to forty inches, said tubular shaft pivotally suspended into said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame and said inner curved tubular patient support frame, pivotally securing said inner curved tubular patient support frame to said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame, and secured by a weight-bearing circular ring attached to said tubular shaft and secured by a securing component; and a patient support structure mounted to a lift plate which is securely attached to said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame. 22. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 21 which further includes at least one lift actuator attached to said lift plate. 23. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 21 wherein said patient support component is a seat component which is attached to said inner curved tubular patient support frame, and said inner curved tubular patient support frame is capable of moving along an inner rotational axis while said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame remains stationary. 24. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 23 which further includes a seat assembly which allows said seat component to retract and pivot from a horizontal to a vertical position. 25. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 24 which further includes at least one spring assembly. 26. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 24 which further includes at least one seat actuator. 27. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 21 wherein said patient support structure is selected from a group consisting of a chair, a stool, bed, table, examination table, gurney, cot, platform, hammock, sling support, sling support configuration, surgical table, partial seat support apparatus, walker, arm rest, and combinations thereof. 28. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 21 which further includes a footrest. 29. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 28 wherein said footrest is capable of retracting and pivoting from a horizontal to a vertical position and returning to said horizontal position. 30. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 21 which further includes a drive motor. 31. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 21 which further includes at least one mechanical component selected from a group consisting of at least one cable and winch assembly and at least one pulley. 32. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 21 which further includes at least one pulley. 33. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 21 which further includes at least one telescoping horizontal overhead component. 34. A torque-resistant home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus capable of movement along an x-axis, z-axis, extended z-axis, inner rotational axis and y-axis comprised of: an outer telescoping curved tubular base frame constructed of at least one lightweight, torque-resistant bent metal tubing component adapted to receive a tubular shaft; a wheel assembly comprised of at least one drive wheel and at least one non-drive wheel and attached to said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame; an inner curved tubular patient support frame constructed of lightweight; torque-resistant bent metal tubing having an overhead component adapted to receive a tubular shaft and pivotally nested within said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame; a torque resistant pivot assembly comprised of a tubular shaft having a diameter of four to forty inches, said tubular shaft pivotally suspended into said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame and said inner curved tubular patient support frame, pivotally securing said inner curved tubular patient support frame to said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame, and secured by a weight-bearing circular ring attached to said tubular shaft and secured by a securing component; at least one drive motor; and a patient support structure mounted to a lift plate which is securely attached to said outer telescoping curved tubular base frame. 35. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 34 which further includes at least one telescoping horizontal overhead component capable of supporting at least one interchangeable patient support structure selected from a group consisting of a chair, a seat, a stool, bed, table, examination table, gurney, cot, platform, hammock, sling support, sling support configuration, surgical table, partial seat support apparatus, walker, arm rest, and combinations thereof. 36. The home lift position and rehabilitation (HLPR) apparatus of claim 34 wherein said patient support structure is a seat that allows said seat component to retract from a horizontal to a vertical position to allow a user to assume a standing position. 