A tendon tension sensor that has particular application for measuring tension on a tendon employed in a robotic arm. The tension sensor includes an elastic element having a curved channel through which the tendon is threaded. The elastic element also includes a center portion on which strain gauges are mounted that measure the strain on the elastic element. Tension on the tendon causes the center portion of the elastic element to flex or bend, which is measured by the strain gauges providing an indication of the tension in the tendon.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tendon tension sensor comprising: a first end portion including a first curved channel; a second end portion including a second curved channel; a narrow center portion coupled to and between the first and second end portions; and at least one strain gauge mounted to the center portion, wherein the first and second curved channels are operable to accept a continuous length of a tendon such that tension on the tendon causes the center portion to flex which can be measured by the at least one strain gauge. 2. The tension sensor according to claim 1 wherein the first and second end portions have a general rounded configuration. 3. The tension sensor according to claim 1 wherein the first and second end portions have a general square configuration. 4. The tension sensor according to claim 1 wherein the at least one strain gauge is a first strain gauge mounted on one side of the center portion and a second strain gauge mounted on an opposite side of the center portion. 5. The tension sensor according to claim 1 wherein the first and second end portions and the center portion form a single piece elastic element. 6. The tension sensor according to claim 5 wherein the single piece elastic element is an aluminum element. 7. The tension sensor according to claim 1 wherein the tension sensor has a length of about 1 inch, a width of about one quarter of an inch and a height of about one quarter of an inch. 8. The tension sensor according to claim 1 wherein the tension sensor measures the tension on a tendon within a robotic arm. 9. The tension sensor according to claim 8 wherein the tendon controls a grasping force of a finger of the robotic arm. 10. A tendon tension sensor comprising: a single piece elastic element a first end portion including the first curved channel, a second end portion including a second curved channel and a narrowed middle portion coupled and between the first and second end portions; and a first strain gauge mounted to one surface of the center portion and a second strain gauge mounted to an opposing surface of the center portion, wherein the first and second curved channels accept a continuous length of a tendon such that tension on the tendon causes the center portion to flex which can be measured by the first and second strain gauges. 11. The tension sensor according to claim 10 wherein the first and second end portions have a general rounded configuration. 12. The tension sensor according to claim 10 wherein the first and second end portions have a general square configuration. 13. The tension sensor according to claim 10 wherein the single piece elastic element is an aluminum element. 14. The tension sensor according to claim 10 wherein the tension sensor has a length of about 1 inch, a width of about one quarter of an inch and a height of about one quarter of an inch. 15. The tension sensor according to claim 10 wherein the tension sensor measures the tension on a tendon within a robotic arm. 16. The tension sensor according to claim 15 wherein the tendon controls a grasping force of a finger of the robotic arm. 17. A tendon tension sensor for measuring the tension on a tendon that controls a grasping force of a finger in a robotic arm, said tension sensor comprising: an elastic element including a generally rounded first end portion including a first curved channel, a generally rounded second end portion including a second curved channel and a narrowed center portion coupled to and between the first and second end portions; and at least one strain gauge mounted to the center portion, wherein the tendon is threaded through the first and second curved channels such that tension on the tendon causes the center portion to flex which can be measured by the at least one strain gauge. 18. The tension sensor according to claim 17 wherein the at least one strain gauge is a first strain gauge mounted on one side of the center portion and a second strain gauge mounted on an opposite side of the center portion. 19. The tension sensor according to claim 17 wherein the elastic element is an aluminum element. 20. The tension sensor according to claim 17 wherein the tension sensor has a length of about 1 inch, a width of about one quarter of an inch and a height of about one quarter of an inch. 