A container for use in processing a biopsy sample. Biopsy sample and materials are received within a sample processing area of the container. A semi-permeable barrier is positioned at a downstream portion of the sample processing area and prevents the prevent passage of the biopsy sample. A cap is positioned at the downstream side of the barrier, and holds fluids within the container.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. In combination, a container for processing a biopsy sample and an embedding material, the container of the combination comprising: a first chamber configured to receive a biopsy sample and embedding material, said first chamber including a sample processing area; and a semi-permeable barrier positioned at a downstream portion of said sample processing area, said semi-permeable barrier configured to prevent passage of the biopsy sample; and the embedding material of the combination comprising: a bolus of solid embedding material, said bolus being solid and sized to fit within said sample processing area adjacent to said semi-permeable barrier prior to insertion of said bolus into said sample processing area. 2. The combination of claim 1, wherein said sample processing area defines a cross-sectional shape and further wherein said bolus of embedding material is sized to fit within said cross-sectional shape without contacting walls of the sample processing area. 3. The combination of claim 2, wherein said bolus of embedding material is a oval-shaped mass of paraffin wax. 4. The combination of claim 1, wherein said sample processing area defines a cross-sectional shape and further wherein said bolus of embedding material has a shape that conforms to said cross-sectional shape. 5. The combination of claim 4, wherein said bolus is sized to have an interference fit with said cross-sectional shape of said sample processing area. 6. The combination of claim 4, wherein said bolus is sized substantially the same as said cross-section shape of said sample processing area. 7. The combination of claim 1, wherein said sample processing area defines a cross-sectional shape that is substantially constant from an upstream portion to a downstream portion of said sample processing area. 8. The combination of claim 1, wherein said sample processing area defines a substantially oval cross-sectional shape. 9. The combination of claim 2, wherein said first chamber comprises a funnel shaped portion that is located upstream of said sample processing area. 10. The combination of claim 1, wherein said sample processing area includes a locking feature to engage solidified material in which biopsy sample has been embedded. 11. The combination of claim 1, further comprising: a removable lid configured to close an upstream end of said sample processing area. 12. The combination of claim 1, wherein said sample processing area is incorporated into a cassette to be received by a microtome. 13. The combination of claim 12, wherein said cassette is removable from said container. 14. The combination of claim 1, further comprising: a second chamber that receives fluids that pass from said first chamber and through said semi-permeable barrier. 15. The combination of claim 1, further comprising: a cap that defines at least a portion of said second chamber, said cap being removable from said container. 16. The combination of claim 1, wherein said semi-permeable barrier has an average pore size between about 5 microns and about 250 microns. 17. The combination of claim 1, wherein said semi-permeable barrier has an average pore size of about 100 microns. 