In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, an automated, computerized method is provided for processing an image. According to a feature of the present invention, the method comprises the steps of converting a color band representation of the image to a homogeneous representation of spectral and spatial characteristics of a texture region in the image and utilizing the homogeneous representation of spectral and spatial characteristics of a texture region in the image to identify homogeneous tokens in the image.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: a computer executing the following steps: converting a color band representation of each pixel in the image to a texton representation, the converting to a texton representation being carried out by generating a two band, texton label, texton histogram label representation for each pixel in the image, wherein the texton label is generated by a first clustering process and represents a texture primitive of the texture in the image and the texton histogram label is generated by a second clustering process and represents a spatial distribution of the texture primitive within the image; and utilizing the texton representation to identify homogeneous tokens in the image by identifying pixels that have the same two band, texton label, texton histogram label representation. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the texton histogram label is generated by generating an histogram of texton label information. 3. The method of claim 1 comprising the further steps of: identifying a texture region in the image; and performing the converting step on the identified texture region of the image. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the step of identifying a texture region in the image is carried out by generating a texture mask of the image. 5. An automated, computerized method for processing an image, comprising the steps of: a computer executing the following steps: converting a color band representation of each pixel in the image to a homogeneous representation by assigning spectral and spatial texture characteristics to each pixel in the image, the spectral and spatial characteristics including a representation of a texture primitive that is generated by a first clustering process and a representation of a spatial distribution of the texture primitive that is generated by a second clustering process; and utilizing the homogeneous representation of spectral and spatial characteristics of a texture region in the image to identify homogeneous tokens in the image by identifying pixels that have the same spectral and spatial characteristics. 