An articulated surgical instrument for enhancing the performance of minimally invasive surgical procedures. The instrument has a high degree of dexterity, low friction, low inertia and good force reflection. A unique cable and pulley drive system operates to reduce friction and enhance force reflection. A unique wrist mechanism operates to enhance surgical dexterity compared to standard laparoscopic instruments. The system is optimized to reduce the number of actuators required and thus produce a fully functional articulated surgical instrument of minimum size.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An articulated surgical instrument for minimally invasive surgery comprising: a sliding bracket slidably coupled to a support bracket; an elongate support member having a proximal end coupled to the sliding bracket, and a distal end insertable into the body of a patient during minimally invasive surgery, the support member being movable along its longitudinal axis by sliding the sliding bracket relative to the support bracket: a wrist member coupled to the distal end of the elongate support member, the wrist member rotatable relative to the elongate support member about a first axis; a surgical end effector coupled to the wrist member, the surgical end effector comprising a first work member rotatable relative to the wrist member about a second axis; and actuators disposed at the sliding bracket, the actuators coupled to the wrist member by cables to rotate the wrist member about the first axis, the actuators further coupled to the first work member by cables to rotate the first work member about the second axis; the actuators comprising four actuators, the four actuators coupled by four cables to four pulleys coupled to the wrist member, wherein selective actuation of the four actuators rotates the wrist member about the first axis and translates the sliding bracket relative to the support bracket along a longitudinal axis of the support member. 2. The instrument of claim 1, at least two of the four actuators further coupled to a pulley attached to the first work member, wherein selective actuation of the at least two of the four actuators rotates the first work member about the second axis. 3. The instrument of claim 2, the surgical end effector further comprising a second work member, the second end effector coupled to at least two of the four actuators not coupled to the pulley attached to the first work member, wherein selection of the at least two of the four actuators not coupled to the first work member rotates the second work member about the second axis. 4. The instrument of claim 3, wherein a first actuator drives a first cable in opposition to a second cable driven by a second actuator to move the first work member with a first degree-of-freedom relative to the support member. 5. The instrument of claim 4, wherein a third actuator drives a third cable in opposition to a fourth cable driven by a fourth actuator to move the second work member relative to the first work member with one degree-of-freedom. 6. The instrument of claim 5 wherein the first and second actuators drive the respective first and second cables in unison in opposition to the third and fourth cables driven in unison by the respective third and fourth actuators in order to move the first work member relative to the support member with a second degree-of-freedom. 7. The instrument of claim 5 wherein the first, second, third and fourth actuators drive respective first, second, third and fourth cables in unison in order to move the elongate support member along the longitudinal axis. 8. The instrument of claim 1, wherein said actuators are controllable by electrical signals to selectively drive the wrist member and the surgical end effector. 9. The instrument of claim 8, wherein said electrical signals are derived from a master controller, wherein movement of said master controller in first and second degrees of freedom generate said electrical signals. 10. The instrument of claim 9, wherein movement of said master controller in said first degree of freedom relative to a stationary point causes movement in the same direction of said the wrist member relative to a surgical site. 11. The instrument of claim 10, wherein movement of said master controller in said second degree of freedom relative to said stationary point causes movement in the same direction of the surgical end effector relative to said surgical site. 12. The instrument of claim 1, the first axis being perpendicular to the second axis. 13. The instrument of claim 1, the support member having a longitudinal axis running between the proximal end and the distal end, the instrument further comprising an auxiliary actuator coupled to the proximal end of the elongate support member by an auxiliary cable, the auxiliary actuator disposed on the sliding bracket, the auxiliary actuator rotating the support member about its longitudinal axis relative to the sliding bracket by pulling the auxiliary cable. 14. The instrument of claim 1, further comprising a mounting bracket coupled to the sliding bracket, the mounting bracket adapted to releasably connect the articulated surgical instrument to a positioning mechanism. 15. The instrument of claim 14, the positioning mechanism comprising a remote centering mechanism for pivoting said instrument about a minimally invasive surgical entry point. 16. The instrument of claim 1, wherein said plurality of actuators is controllable by electrical signals to selectively drive the wrist member and the surgical end effector. 17. The instrument of claim 16, wherein said electrical signals are derived from a master controller, wherein movement of said master controller in first and second degrees of freedom generate said electrical signals. 18. The instrument of claim 17, wherein movement of said master controller in said first degree of freedom relative to a stationary point causes movement in the same direction of said the wrist member relative to a surgical site. 19. The instrument of claim 18, wherein movement of said master controller in said second degree of freedom relative to said stationary point causes movement in the same direction of the surgical end effector relative to said surgical site. 20. A surgical instrument comprising: a sliding bracket slidably coupled to a support bracket; an elongate support member having a proximal end coupled to the sliding bracket, and a distal end insertable into the body of a patient during minimally invasive surgery, the support member being movable along its longitudinal axis by sliding the sliding bracket relative to the support bracket; a wrist member coupled to the distal end of the elongate support member, the wrist member rotatable relative to the elongate support member about a first axis; a surgical end effector coupled to the wrist member, the surgical end effector comprising a first work member rotatable relative to the wrist member about a second axis; pulley means disposed at the wrist member for moving the wrist member and the surgical end effector; and actuation means disposed at the sliding bracket for selectively actuating the pulley means; the actuation means comprising four actuators, the four actuators coupled by four cables to four pulleys coupled to the wrist member, wherein selective actuation of the four actuators rotates the wrist member about the first axis and translates the sliding bracket relative to the support bracket along a longitudinal axis of the support member. 21. A method of actuating a surgical instrument, the surgical instrument comprising a sliding bracket slidably coupled to a support bracket, the instrument further comprising an elongate support member having a proximal end coupled to the sliding bracket and a distal end inserted into the body of a patient during minimally invasive surgery, a wrist member coupled to the distal end of the elongate support member, and a surgical end effector coupled to the wrist member, the surgical end effector comprising a first work member, the method comprising: moving the support member along its longitudinal axis by sliding the sliding bracket relative to the support bracket; selectively actuating a plurality of actuators disposed at the sliding bracket, the actuators comprising four actuators, the four actuators coupled by four cables to four pulleys coupled to the wrist member, wherein selective actuation of the four actuators rotates the wrist member about the first axis and translates the sliding bracket relative to the support bracket along a longitudinal axis of the support member; rotating the wrist member relative to the elongate support member about a first axis in response to said selective actuation; and rotating the first work member relative to the wrist member about a second axis in response to said selective actuation. 