The invention relates to methods and devices for analyzing single molecules, i.e. nucleic acids. Such single molecules may be derived from natural samples, such as cells, tissues, soil, air and water without separating or enriching individual components. In certain aspects of the invention, the methods and devices are useful in performing nucleic acid sequence analysis by probe hybridization.
Claims I claim: 1. A method to analyze nucleic acids comprising: (a) providing a random array of target nucleic acids, wherein the target nucleic acids are generated from multiple sources, and wherein each target nucleic acid is tagged with an identifier of the particular source of the nucleic acid and wherein each target nucleic acid comprises a first target domain and an adjacent second target domain; (b) contacting said array with: (i) a first probe set comprising: 1. a first probe pool comprising probes complementary to said first target domains; 2. a second probe pool comprising probes complementary to said second target domains; wherein at least one of said first and second probe pools comprises a label; (c) ligating probes from said first probe pool and probes from said second probe pool when hybridized to said first and second target domains to form first ligated probes; (d) detecting said first ligated probes to determine at least one nucleotide of said first target domain; (e) removing said first ligated probes; (f) repeating steps (b)-(e) to determine all nucleotides of said first target domain, wherein each nucleotide of said first target domain is determined multiple times, wherein nucleic acids from a particular source are recognized by the assigned tag sequence. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second probe pools is a complete universal pool of probes. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second probe pools comprises a mixture of probes of formula N.sub.xB.sub.yN.sub.z, wherein: (i) N is a degenerate base; (ii) B is an informative base; (iii) x, y, and z are integers. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said label is selected from the group consisting of fluorophores, radioisotopes, chromophores, and chemiluminescent moieties. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein each of said first and second probe pools comprises a label. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the label on said first probe pool and the label on said second probe pool are FRET pairs. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said label is attached to the terminus of each of said first and second probe pools. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said probes of said first probe pool have free 3' hydroxyl groups and wherein said probes of said second probe pool have free 5' phosphate groups. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of target nucleic acid sequences comprise genomic DNA. 10. A method according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of target nucleic acids is immobilized to said surface. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said plurality of target nucleic acids is immobilized to said surface at a density of a single target nucleic acid per pixel. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein said plurality of target nucleic acids is immobilized to said surface by a member selected from: passive adsorption, UV light, covalent binding, and formation of an amide bond between said target nucleic acids and said surface. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein said plurality of target nucleic acids is immobilized to said surface through a reactive group, wherein said reactive group is a member selected from a hydroxyl group, a carboxyl group, and an amino group. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of target nucleic acids comprises an adapter, wherein said surface comprises capture oligonucleotides, and wherein said plurality of target nucleic acids are immobilized to said surface through hybridization of said adapters to said capture oligonucleotides. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein probes within the same pool cannot ligate to each other. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said label is attached to said at least one of said first and second probe pools using a method that is a member selected from: direct chemical labeling, kinasing and nick-translation. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to said detecting step (d), unligated probes are removed from said array. 18. A method according to claim 1, wherein said target nucleic acid sequences are amplified at least 10-, 100-, 1000-, or 10,000-fold. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein all of said probes in said first probe pool comprise an identical sequence. 20. A method for determining all or part of the sequence of a plurality of target nucleic acid sequences comprising: (a) providing a random array of target nucleic acids, wherein said target nucleic acids are generated from multiple sources, and wherein each target nucleic acid is tagged with an identifier of the particular source of the nucleic acid and wherein each target nucleic acid comprises a first target domain and an adjacent second target domain; (b) contacting said array with: (i) a first probe set comprising: 1. a first probe pool comprising probes complementary to said first target domains; 2. a second probe pool comprising probes complementary to said second target domains; wherein at least one of said first and second probe pools comprises a label; (c) ligating probes from said first probe pool and probes from said second probe pool when hybridized to said first and second target domains to form first ligated probes; (d) detecting said first ligated probes to determine at least one nucleotide of said first target domain; (e) removing said first ligated probes; (f) contacting said array with: (i) a second probe set comprising: 1. a third probe pool comprising probes complementary to said first target domains; 2. a fourth probe pool comprising probes complementary to said second target domains; wherein at least one of said third and fourth probe pools comprises a label; (g) ligating probes from said third probe pool and probes from said fourth probe pool when hybridized to said first and second target domains to form second ligated probes; (h) detecting said second ligated probes to determine at least one nucleotide of said first target domain, wherein at least one nucleotide of said first target domain is determined by both said detecting of said first ligated probes and said detecting of said second ligated probes, and wherein nucleic acids from a particular source are recognized by the assigned tag sequence. 