The invention involves a die holder for a press, such as a metal-fabricating press. The die holder can be configured to receive a die, and can include a clamp portion and a wall portion. Preferably, the clamp and wall portions can be positioned in an open configuration or a closed configuration, and the die holder can be adjusted from an unclamped configuration to a clamped configuration. The die holder may have a die-release mechanism useful for overcoming stiction and facilitating removal of the die from the die holder.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A die holder for a metal-fabricating press, the die holder defining an interior recess configured to receive a die, the die holder including a clamp portion and a wall portion, wherein the clamp and wall portions are adapted to be positioned in an open configuration or a closed configuration, the clamp and wall portions together surrounding said interior recess when in the closed configuration, wherein the die holder can be adjusted from an unclamped configuration to a clamped configuration by performing a clamping operation, and the die holder can be adjusted from the clamped configuration to the unclamped configuration by performing an unclamping operation, wherein when the die is received in said interior recess and the die holder is in the clamped configuration the die is clamped securely by the die holder, the die holder being provided with a single-motion actuator, such that the die holder is adapted to clamp in response to a single motion of the actuator, and wherein the die holder includes at least one spring component. 2. The die holder of claim 1 wherein the single-motion actuator also is adapted for causing the die holder to unclamp in response to a single motion of the actuator. 3. The die holder of claim 1 wherein, when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the open configuration, the die can be mounted in the die holder by moving the die sideways through an open side of the die holder, after which the clamp and wall portions can be positioned in the closed configuration and then said clamping operation can be performed to securely clamp the die holder on the die. 4. The die holder of claim 1 wherein the actuator is a tool-free actuator, such that both said clamping and unclamping operations are tool-free operations. 5. The die holder of claim 1 wherein the actuator comprises a body that moves in one direction during said clamping operation and in another direction during said unclamping operation. 6. The die holder of claim 5 wherein said body is a handle or latch that moves pivotally during said clamping and unclamping operations. 7. The die holder of claim 5 wherein said body is a handle, the die holder has a shelf adapted to support a bottom of the die, the shelf having a support surface on which the bottom of the die is adapted to rest, and wherein during said clamping and unclamping operations the handle is moved in a plane that is at least generally parallel to the shelf's support surface. 8. The die holder of claim 7 wherein the die holder is mounted on a horizontal table of the metal-fabricating press, and during said clamping and unclamping operations the handle moves horizontally. 9. The die holder of claim 1 wherein the clamp portion is a concave clamp portion and the wall portion is a concave wall portion, and when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the closed configuration, the die holder has a generally annular configuration. 10. The die holder of claim 1 wherein the die holder is an independently-operable die holder such that performing said clamping operation clamps the die holder alone and does not simultaneously clamp any other die holder. 11. The die holder of claim 1 wherein said interior recess has a generally circular configuration, the clamp portion has a concave interior surface and the wall portion has a concave interior surface, said interior surfaces being adapted to engage the die when the die holder is clamped securely on the die. 12. The die holder of claim 11 wherein, when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the closed configuration, the concave interior surface of the clamp portion bounds at least 30 degrees of said interior recess. 13. The die holder of claim 11 wherein, when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the closed configuration, the concave interior surface of the clamp portion bounds more than 180 degrees of said interior recess. 14. The die holder of claim 1 wherein during said clamping operation the die holder applies a clamping force on the die, and wherein the spring component generates at least part of the clamping force. 15. The die holder of claim 1 wherein the spring component comprises a body formed of spring steel. 16. The die holder of claim 15 wherein the spring steel body forms at least part of the die holder's clamp portion. 17. The die holder of claim 1 wherein the spring component comprises a latch, the latch being hingedly joined to a first of the clamp portion and the wall portion, the latch having a free end that can be hooked onto a second of the clamp portion and the wall portion whereafter the latch can be tightened as part of said clamping operation. 18. The die holder of claim 1 wherein the clamp portion is hingedly joined to the wall portion, such that the clamp and wall portions can be moved between the closed and open configurations by pivoting the clamp portion relative to the wall portion. 19. The die holder of claim 1 wherein said open configuration involves the clamp portion being removed from the wall portion, said closed configuration involves the clamp portion being attached removably to the wall portion, and when the clamp and wall portions are in the closed configuration said clamping operation can be performed to decrease a dimension of said interior recess. 20. The die holder of claim 1 wherein the die holder has a shelf adapted to support a bottom of the die, and the die holder has a shoulder defining an interior side surface that extends at least generally orthogonally from the shelf, the shoulder bounding said interior recess, wherein the die holder has a central opening, and the shelf encompasses said central opening. 21. The die holder of claim 1 wherein the metal-fabricating press is a turret press having a turret with a plurality of stations adapted to receive respective tool holders, the die holder being mounted removably to the turret. 22. The die holder of claim 1 wherein the die holder is mounted removably within an opening defined by a table of the metal-fabricating press. 23. The die holder of claim 1 wherein die holder is adapted for being clamped and unclamped without any assembly or disassembly of the die holder. 24. A die holder for a metal-fabricating press, the die holder defining an interior recess configured to receive a die, the die holder including a clamp portion and a wall portion, wherein the clamp and wall portions are adapted to be positioned in an open configuration or a closed configuration, the clamp and wall portions together surrounding said interior recess when in the closed configuration, wherein the die holder can be adjusted from an unclamped configuration to a clamped configuration by performing a clamping operation, and the die holder can be adjusted from the clamped configuration to the unclamped configuration by performing an unclamping operation, wherein when the die is received in said interior recess and the die holder is in the clamped configuration the die is clamped securely by the die holder, and wherein, when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the open configuration, the die can be mounted in the die holder by moving the die sideways through an open side of the die holder, after which the clamp and wall portions can be positioned in the closed configuration and then said clamping operation can be performed to securely clamp the die holder on the die, the die holder being provided with an actuator comprising a pivotable body that moves pivotally during said clamping and unclamping operations, and wherein the die holder includes at least one spring component. 25. The die holder of claim 24 wherein said pivotable body pivots about a hinge during said clamping and unclamping operations. 26. The die holder of claim 24 wherein the actuator is a tool-free actuator such that both said clamping and unclamping operations are tool-free operations. 27. The die holder of claim 24 wherein the die holder is provided with a single-motion actuator, such that the die holder clamps in response to a single motion of the actuator. 28. The die holder of claim 24 wherein the die holder has a shelf adapted to support a bottom of the die, the shelf having a support surface on which the bottom of the die is adapted to rest, and wherein during said clamping and unclamping operations said pivotable body moves pivotally along a plane that is either substantially parallel or substantially perpendicular to the shelf's support surface. 29. The die holder of claim 24 wherein said pivotable body is a handle, the die holder is on a horizontal table of the metal-fabricating press, and during said clamping and unclamping operations the handle moves horizontally. 30. The die holder of claim 24 wherein said interior recess has a generally circular configuration, the clamp portion has a concave interior surface and the wall portion has a concave interior surface, said interior surfaces being adapted to engage the die when the die holder is clamped securely on the die, and wherein, when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the closed configuration, the interior surface of the clamp portion bounds at least 30 degrees of said interior recess. 31. The die holder of claim 24 wherein during said clamping operation the die holder applies a clamping force on the die, wherein the spring component generates at least part of the clamping force, the spring component comprising a body formed of spring steel. 32. The die holder of claim 24 wherein the die holder is an independently-operable die holder such that performing said clamping operation clamps the die holder alone and does not simultaneously clamp any other die holder. 33. A die holder for a metal-fabricating press, the die holder defining an interior recess configured to receive a die, the die holder including a clamp portion and a wall portion, wherein the clamp and wall portions are adapted to be positioned in an open configuration or a closed configuration, the clamp and wall portions together surrounding said interior recess when in the closed configuration, wherein the die holder can be adjusted from an unclamped configuration to a clamped configuration by performing a clamping operation, and the die holder can be adjusted from the clamped configuration to the unclamped configuration by performing an unclamping operation, wherein when the die is received in said interior recess and the die holder is in the clamped configuration the die is clamped securely by the die holder, and wherein, when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the open configuration, the die can be mounted in the die holder by moving the die sideways through an open side of the die holder, after which the clamp and wall portions can be positioned in the closed configuration and said clamping operation can be performed to securely clamp the die holder on the die, the die holder being provided with an actuator comprising a pivotable body that moves pivotally during said clamping and unclamping operations, and wherein the metal-fabricating press is a turret press having a turret with a plurality of stations adapted to receive respective tool holders, the die holder being mounted removably to the turret. 34. A metal-fabricating press and a die holder in combination, the metal-fabricating press having upper and lower tables separated by a gap, the gap being adapted to receive a sheet-like workpiece, the die holder being removably mounted on the lower table, the die holder defining an interior recess configured to receive a die, the die holder including a clamp portion and a wall portion, wherein the clamp and wall portions are adapted to be positioned in an open configuration or a closed configuration, the clamp and wall portions together surrounding said interior recess when in the closed configuration, wherein the die holder can be adjusted from an unclamped configuration to a clamped configuration by performing a clamping operation, and the die holder can be adjusted from the clamped configuration to the unclamped configuration by performing an unclamping operation, wherein when the die is received in said interior recess and the die holder is in the clamped configuration the die is clamped securely by the die holder, and wherein, when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the open configuration, the die can be moved into the gap and mounted in the die holder by moving the die sideways through an open side of the die holder, after which the clamp and wall portions can be positioned in the closed configuration and said clamping operation can be performed to securely clamp the die holder on the die, the die holder being provided with an actuator comprising a moveable body that pivots about at least one hinge during said clamping and unclamping operations, and wherein the gap is a generally horizontal gap, and said moveable body comprises a latch that moves vertically during said clamping and unclamping operations. 35. The press and die holder combination of claim 34 wherein, when the clamp and wall portions of the die holder are positioned in the open configuration, said open side of the die holder faces an exterior perimeter of the press. 36. The press and die holder combination of claim 34 wherein the actuator is a single-motion actuator, such that the die holder clamps in response to a single motion of the actuator. 37. The press and die holder combination of claim 34 wherein the actuator is a tool-free actuator such that said clamping and unclamping operations are tool-free operations. 38. The press and die holder combination of claim 34 wherein the gap is a generally horizontal gap, and said moveable body comprises a handle that moves at least generally horizontally during said clamping and unclamping operations. 39. A tool-free die holder for a metal-fabricating press, the die holder defining an interior recess configured to receive a die, the die holder including a clamp portion and a wall portion, wherein the clamp and wall portions are adapted to be positioned in an open configuration or a closed configuration, the clamp and wall portions together surrounding said interior recess when in the closed configuration, wherein the die holder can be adjusted from an unclamped configuration to a clamped configuration by performing a clamping operation, and the die holder can be adjusted from the clamped configuration to the unclamped configuration by performing an unclamping operation, wherein when the die is received in said interior recess and the die holder is in the clamped configuration the die is clamped securely by the die holder, the die holder being provided with a tool-free actuator, such that both said clamping and unclamping operations are tool-free operations, and wherein said open configuration involves the clamp portion being removed from the wall portion, and said closed configuration involves the clamp portion being attached removably to the wall portion. 40. The die holder of claim 39 wherein, when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the open configuration, the die can be mounted in the die holder by moving the die sideways through an open side of the die holder. 41. The die holder of claim 39 wherein the actuator is a single-motion actuator that allows the unclamping operation to be performed in response to a single motion of the actuator. 42. The die holder of claim 41 wherein the actuator comprises a body that moves pivotally during the unclamping operation. 43. The die holder of claim 39 wherein the clamp portion is a concave clamp portion and the wall portion is a concave wall portion, and when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the closed configuration the die holder has a generally annular configuration. 44. The die holder of claim 39 wherein the die holder is an independently-operable die holder such that performing the unclamping operation unclamps the die holder alone and does not simultaneously unclamp any other die holder. 45. The die holder of claim 39 wherein said interior recess has a generally circular configuration, the clamp portion has a concave interior surface and the wall portion has a concave interior surface, said interior surfaces being adapted to engage the die when the die holder is clamped securely on the die. 46. The die holder of claim 45 wherein, when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the closed configuration, the concave interior surface of the clamp portion bounds at least 30 degrees of said interior recess. 47. The die holder of claim 46 wherein, when the clamp and wall portions are positioned in the closed configuration, the concave interior surface of the clamp portion bounds more than 180 degrees of said interior recess. 48. The die holder of claim 39 wherein the die holder has a shelf adapted to support a bottom of the die, and the die holder has a shoulder defining an interior side surface that extends at least generally orthogonally from the shelf, the shoulder bounding said interior recess, wherein the die holder has a central opening, and the shelf encompasses said central opening. 49. The die holder of claim 39 wherein the die holder can be adjusted from the unclamped configuration to the clamped configuration by performing a clamping operation, and wherein the single-motion actuator allows the clamping operation to be performed in response to a single motion of the actuator. 50. The die holder of claim 49 wherein the actuator comprises a body that moves in one direction during the clamping operation and in another direction during the unclamping operation. 51. The die holder of claim 39 wherein the die holder is mounted removably within an opening defined by a table of the fabricating press. 52. The die holder of claim 39 wherein die holder is adapted for being clamped and unclamped without any assembly or disassembly of the die holder. 53. The die holder of claim 39 wherein, when the die holder is in the unclamped, open configuration, the die holder has an open side. 54. A tool-free die holder for a metal-fabricating press, the die holder defining an interior recess configured to receive a die, the die holder including a clamp portion and a wall portion, wherein the clamp and wall portions are adapted to be positioned in an open configuration or a closed configuration, the clamp and wall portions together surrounding said interior recess when in the closed configuration, wherein the die holder can be adjusted from an unclamped configuration to a clamped configuration by performing a clamping operation, and the die holder can be adjusted from the clamped configuration to the unclamped configuration by performing an unclamping operation, wherein when the die is received in said interior recess and the die holder is in the clamped configuration the die is clamped securely by the die holder, the die holder being provided with a tool-free actuator, such that both said clamping and unclamping operations are tool-free operations, and wherein the die holder includes at least one spring component. 55. The die holder of claim 54 wherein during a clamping operation the die holder applies a clamping force on the die, and wherein the spring component generates at least part of the clamping force. 56. The die holder of claim 54 wherein the spring component comprises a body formed of spring steel, and the spring steel body forms at least part of the die holder's clamp portion. 57. A tool-free die holder for a metal-fabricating press, the die holder defining an interior recess configured to receive a die, the die holder including a clamp portion and a wall portion, wherein the clamp and wall portions are adapted to be positioned in an open configuration or a closed configuration, the clamp and wall portions together surrounding said interior recess when in the closed configuration, wherein the die holder can be adjusted from an unclamped configuration to a clamped configuration by performing a clamping operation, and the die holder can be adjusted from the clamped configuration to the unclamped configuration by performing an unclamping operation, wherein when the die is received in said interior recess and the die holder is in the clamped configuration the die is clamped securely by the die holder, the die holder being provided with a tool-free actuator, such that both said clamping and unclamping operations are tool-free operations, and wherein the fabricating press is a turret press having a turret with a plurality of stations adapted to receive respective tool holders, the die holder being mounted removably to the turret. 