A process is provided for manufacturing aluminum vehicle wheels by a casting process that is followed by processing including flow forming and heat treatment steps while one or more risers remain on the cast wheel blank. The process can include directing cooling fluid onto an exposed surface of the casting mold to enhance wheel strength. One-by-one transfer of wheel blanks can be practiced to avoid negative aspects of batch processing.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A process for manufacturing cast aluminum vehicle wheels, comprising: forming molten aluminum within a casting mold configured, sized and shaped in order to provide a raw cast aluminum wheel blank from the molten aluminum, the blank having a rim and a face; said forming including utilizing at least one gate associated with the casting mold resulting in the formation of at least one riser extending from the body of the blank; further processing the cast aluminum wheel blank while the riser remains connected to the blank; said further processing includes: (a) cooling substantially primarily the face of the wheel blank, (b) heating an outside portion of the wheel blank and flow forming same to provide a flow-formed wheel blank, (c) heat treating the wheel blank, and (d) quenching the thus flow-formed wheel blank; and removing the riser from the flow-formed wheel blank to provide a cast aluminum vehicle wheel. 2. The process according to claim 1, wherein said forming within the casting mold includes directing cooling fluid onto an exposed surface of the casting mold. 3. The process according to claim 1, wherein said (a) cooling includes positioning an insulation cover over the rim of the wheel blank and immersing the wheel into a cooling medium up to a level approximating that of the face of the wheel blank. 4. The process according to claim 1, wherein said (a) cooling includes positioning an insulation cover over the rim of the wheel blank and directing a cooling medium upwardly onto the face of the wheel blank. 5. The process according to claim 1, wherein said (a) cooling includes positioning an insulation cover over the rim of the wheel blank and directing cooling fluid onto a surface of the wheel blank opposite to the face of the wheel blank. 6. The process according to claim 1, wherein said cooling reduces the temperature of the face of the wheel blank from between about 400-500.degree. C. to below approximately 250.degree. C. 7. The process according to claim 1, wherein said further processing handles the cast aluminum wheel blanks in a one-by-one manner and avoids batch processing. 8. The process according to claim 1, wherein said (b) flow forming includes positioning the cast aluminum wheel blank on a rotating mandrel, said positioning being preceded by directing release coating onto the mandrel, said directing being accomplished by a robot unit that delivers the cast aluminum wheel to the mandrel. 9. The process according to claim 8, wherein said directing includes rotating the release coating directing means with respect to the mandrel. 10. The process according to claim 1, wherein said further processing includes conveying the cast aluminum wheel blank along a pathway that includes an insulating cover through which the blank travels. 11. A process for manufacturing cast aluminum vehicle wheels, comprising: forming molten aluminum within a casting mold configured, sized and shaped in order to provide a raw cast aluminum wheel blank from the molten aluminum, the blank having a rim and a face; said forming including utilizing at least one gate associated with the casting mold resulting in the formation of at least one riser extending from the body of the blank; further processing the cast aluminum wheel blank while the riser remains connected to the blank; said further processing includes: (a) cooling substantially only the face of the raw cast aluminum wheel blank by contacting substantially only the face of the raw wheel blank with a cooling medium in order to reduce the temperature of the face to less than about 250.degree. C. while the remainder of the raw aluminum wheel blank remains above about 400.degree. C., (b) heating an outside portion of the raw wheel blank and flow forming same to provide a flow-formed wheel blank, (c) heat treating the wheel blank, and (d) quenching the thus flow-formed wheel blank; and removing the riser from the flow-formed wheel blank after said quenching to provide a cast aluminum vehicle wheel. 12. The process according to claim 11, wherein said forming within the casting mold includes directing cooling fluid onto an exposed surface of the casting mold. 13. The process according to claim 11, wherein said (a) cooling includes positioning an insulation cover over the rim of the wheel blank and immersing the wheel into a cooling medium up to a level approximating that of the face of the wheel blank while also directing cooling fluid upwardly onto the face of the wheel blank. 14. The process according to claim 13, wherein said (a) cooling further includes directing a cooling medium upwardly onto the face of the wheel blank. 15. The process according to claim 13, wherein said further processing handles the cast aluminum wheel blanks in a one-by-one manner and avoids batch processing. 16. The process according to claim 15, wherein said (b) flow forming includes positioning the cast aluminum wheel blank on a rotating mandrel, said positioning being preceded by directing release coating onto the mandrel, said directing being accomplished by a robot unit that delivers the cast aluminum wheel to the mandrel, said directing including rotating the release coating directing means with respect to the mandrel. 