Featured is a controller for a motor that is ultra-compact, with a power density of at least about 20 watts per cubic cm (W/cm.sup.3). The controller utilizes a common ground for power circuitry, which energizes the windings of the motor, and the signal circuitry, which controls this energization responsive to signals from one or more sensors. Also, the ground is held at a stable potential without galvanic isolation. The circuits, their components and connectors are sized and located to minimize their inductance and heat is dissipated by conduction to the controller's exterior such as by a thermally conductive and electrically insulating material (e.g., potable epoxy). The controller uses a single current sensor for plural windings and preferably a single heat sensor within the controller. The body of the controller can also function as the sole plug connector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A motor controller having drive circuits to energize stator phase windings of the motor and control circuit for this energizing comprising: a casting of an insulating material that encapsulates substantially all of said controller, said casting being composed and sized to ultra-compactness so as to sufficiently thermally conductive such that the casting dissipates heat produced by the operation of the circuits using conduction from heat sources to the exterior of the casting, wherein said controller and its associated motor are plural and are electronically connected to form a network of motor-controllers. 2. A controller for an electrical motor having a stator with plural windings and a rotor, where the controller is connected to a remote electrical power source comprising: a sensor that determines the position of the rotor; a sensor that determines the temperature within the controller; a sensor that determines the current flowing in each stator winding; drive electronics that energize the stator windings, in plural phase axes; control electronics responsive to said position and said current flow sensors that control said drive electronics to operate said motor; electrical connections within said controller for said sensors and said electronics and between the controller and the motor; an electrically insulating structure that supports and at least partially encloses said drive commutation electronics and said sensors that is thermally conductive and disposed with respect to at least said drive and said commutation electronics to be the principal path for heat produced by them; and wherein said support structure is sufficiently small that heat produced by the operation of the controller is effectively dissipated and the controller as a whole is sufficiently small that the reactance produced by said electrical connections and the related power loss in the controller, measured relative to the characteristic power flowing through the controller to and from the motor, is low enough that power flows in different axes will be positive and negative. 3. A motor controller having drive circuits to energize stator phase windings of the motor and control circuit for this energizing comprising: a casting of an insulating material that encapsulates substantially all of said controller, said casting being composed and sized so as to sufficiently thermally conductive such that the casting dissipates heat produced by the operation of the circuits using conduction from heat sources to the exterior of the casting, and wherein said thermal conductivity produces a substantially isothermal temperature gradient within the controller. 4. A motor controller having drive circuits to energize stator phase windings of the motor and control circuit for this energizing comprising: a casting of an insulating material that encapsulates substantially all of said controller, said casting being composed and sized so as to sufficiently thermally conductive such that the casting dissipates heat produced by the operation of the circuits using conduction from heat sources to the exterior of the casting, and further comprising a heat sink exterior to said casting and in an heat-transmissive relationship with it, and a heat sink exterior to said casting in a heat-transmissive relationship with it, wherein said heat sink is a housing of said motor. 5. The motor controller of any of claims 1, 2 or 3, further comprising a position sensor positioned within said casting, connected electrically to said control circuit, and positioned proximate said motor to determine the rotational position of its rotor, whereby said position sensor and said controller form an integral motor control unit. 6. The motor controller of any of claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein said insulating material is an epoxy. 7. The motor controller of any of claims 1, 2 or 3, wherein said casting is in thermally conducting direct contact with hot spot components of said drive and control circuits. 8. The motor controlling of any of claims 1, 2 or 3, further comprising a heat sink exterior to said casting and in an heat-transmissive relationship with it. 9. The motor controller of any of claims 1 2 or 3, wherein said casting has flutes on an exterior surface not in contact with said heat sink to facilitate the transfer of heat from said casting to the surrounding environment. 10. The motor controller of any of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the casting is arranged so that a heat conductive path from any point within the controller to the exterior surface of the controller is less than a predetermined value such that the internal heat transfer for heat dissipation is principally conductive and sufficient to produce a substantially isothermal temperature gradient within the controller. 11. The motor controller of any of claims 1, 2 or 3 wherein the predetermined value for said casting is one of about 1-3 cm or less or about 2 cm or less, and a thermal conductivity of the casting is in excess of about 1 W/m-K. 