The invention relates to methods and devices for analyzing single molecules, i.e. nucleic acids. Such single molecules may be derived from natural samples, such as cells, tissues, soil, air and water without separating or enriching individual components. In certain aspects of the invention, the methods and devices are useful in performing nucleic acid sequence analysis by probe hybridization.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for sequencing target nucleic acids, said method comprising: (a) providing a random array of said target nucleic acids; (b) hybridizing a first and second population of oligonucleotide probes to said array; (c) ligating oligonucleotide probes from said first and second populations that are hybridized to adjacent positions on said target nucleic acids to produce ligated probes; (d) collecting a signal produced by said ligated probes; (e) analyzing said signal to identify at least one nucleotide of said target nucleic acids; (f) repeating steps (b)-(e) to provide multiple cycles of sequence information for said target nucleic acids, such that at least one nucleotide of said target nucleic acids is identified in more than one cycle; (g) assembling said multiple cycles of sequence information to provide sequences of all or a portion of said target nucleic acids. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein each repetition of steps (b)-(e) utilizes a first and second population of oligonucleotide probes that are overlapping with first and second population of oligonucleotide probes used in a previous cycle. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein each repetition of steps (b)-(e) utilizes first and second populations of oligonucleotide probes that are different than first and second populations of oligonucleotide probes used in previous cycles. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein at least one of said first and second populations of oligonucleotide probes across said multiple cycles together comprises a universal probe set. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first and second population of oligonucleotide probes is detectably labelled. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said analyzing step (e) identifies at least two nucleotides of said target nucleic acids. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said target nucleic acids together represent an entire genome. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said target nucleic acids together represent 10-100 copies of a genome. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said target nucleic acids comprise an adapter of known sequence. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said adapter further comprises a tag sequence identifying a sample from which said target nucleic acids are derived. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said target nucleic acids represent sequences of multiple genomes, and wherein said tag sequence identifies from which genome a target sequence is derived. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said target nucleic acids are not identical to each other and represent sequences from different parts of said genome, such that together said target nucleic acids represent said entire genome. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein sequence information from different target nucleic acids is assembled into an assembled sequence of all or part of said genome. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein probes within the same population cannot ligate to each other. 