An array for use with a surgical navigation system is provided. The array comprises a frame and first, second and third markers attached to the frame. The first, second and third markers are detectable by a tracking system used in image guided surgery, and the first marker is movable relative to the frame. In one embodiment, at least one marker slides along the frame from a first position where it is held in place to a second position where it is also held in place. In another embodiment, one or more of the markers is removed from the frame at a first position and reattached to the frame at a second position. In still another embodiment, a portion of the frame itself moves with the movable marker.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An array for use with a surgical navigation system, comprising: a frame having a plurality of retainers configured to a marker thereto; and first, second and third markers attached to the frame, the first, second and third markers defining a first three-dimensional configuration of the array that is detectable by a tracking system used in a surgical navigation system; wherein the first marker is movable relative to the frame from a first retainer to a second unoccupied retainer to define a second three-dimensional configuration of the array, the second three-dimensional configuration being different from the first three-dimensional configuration. 2. The array of claim 1, wherein the first marker is slidable on the frame between a first position and a second position. 3. The array of claim 1, further comprising a coupling member disposed at one end of the frame and adapted to releasably and interchangeably attach the array to at least two different surgical components to distinguish between the at least two different surgical components through detection of at least one of the first, second and third markers. 4. The array of claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a movable arm member having the first marker attached thereto, wherein the movable arm member and the first marker move relative to the frame. 5. The array of claim 1, wherein the first marker is detachable from the frame at a first position and reattachable to the frame at a second position. 6. A method of performing a surgery using surgical navigation, comprising: (a) providing a tracking system and an array having a frame having a plurality of retainers with first, second and third markers attached thereto, the array being identified and tracked by the tracking system; (b) using a first surgical component to which the array is attached during the surgery while tracking the first surgical component with the tracking system; (c) detaching the array from the first surgical component and reattaching the array to a second surgical component; (d) moving the position of the first marker from a first position to a second position relative to the frame, wherein the tracking system identifies the second surgical component to which the array is attached; and (e) using the second surgical component to which the array is attached during the surgery while tracking the second surgical component with the tracking system. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein step (d) comprises sliding the first marker along the frame from the first position to the second position. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein step (d) comprises moving a movable arm member having the first marker attached thereto, wherein the first marker moves from the first position to the second position. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein step (d) comprises detaching the first marker from the frame at the first position and reattaching the first marker to the frame at the second position. 10. A surgical navigation system, comprising: a computer having surgical navigation utilities software; a tracking system coupled to the computer; an array having a frame with a plurality of retainers configured to couple a marker thereto and a marker geometry that is identifiable by the tracking system, the marker geometry being defined by first, second and third markers that are interchangeable between at least two different three-dimensional configurations by moving the first marker relative to the frame from a first retainer to a second unoccupied retainer, each three-dimensional configuration being identifiable and distinguishable by the tracking system; and a plurality of different surgical components that are removably and interchangeably connectable to the array; the software programmed to accept the identity of each surgical component as an input, wherein the surgical navigation system is configured to recognize and track any one of the plurality of surgical components that is connected to the array. 11. The surgical navigation system of claim 10, further comprising a coupling member disposed at one end and adapted to releasably and interchangeably attach the array to the plurality of different surgical components to distinguish between the surgical components through detection of at least one of the first, second and third markers. 