A joint assembly is provided which includes a drive assembly and a swivel mechanism. The drive assembly features a motor operatively associated with a plurality of drive shafts for driving auxiliary elements, and a plurality of swivel shafts for pivoting the drive assembly. The swivel mechanism engages the swivel shafts and has a fixable element that may be attached to a foundation. The swivel mechanism is adapted to cooperate with the swivel shafts to pivot the drive assembly with at least two degrees of freedom relative to the foundation. The joint assembly allows for all components to remain encased in a tight, compact, and sealed package, making it ideal for space, exploratory, and commercial applications.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A joint assembly, comprising: a drive assembly comprising a motor operatively associated with a plurality of drive shafts for driving auxiliary elements, and a plurality of swivel shafts for pivoting the drive assembly; and a swivel assembly engaging the plurality of swivel shafts and comprising a fixable element securable to a foundation, the swivel assembly adapted to cooperate with the swivel shafts to selectively and independently pivot the drive assembly about each of at least two rotational axis and a common center point of rotation thereby providing at least two degrees of freedom relative to the fixable element about said common point of rotation. 2. The joint assembly according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of drive shafts defines a rotating body circumscribing a pivot point about which the drive assembly swivels with at least two degrees of freedom. 3. The joint assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a rotating body at least partly enclosing the drive assembly and circumscribing a pivot point about which the drive assembly swivels with at least two degrees of freedom. 4. The joint assembly according to claim 3, wherein the plurality of drive and swivel shafts project from the rotating body. 5. The joint assembly according to claim 4, wherein the plurality of drive shafts extends from the rotating body in an opposite direction from the plurality of swivel shafts. 6. The joint assembly according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of drive shafts comprises at least three front drive shafts. 7. The joint assembly according to claim 6, wherein the front drive shafts are concentrically arranged. 8. The joint assembly according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of swivel shafts comprises first and second swivel shafts concentrically arranged relative to one another. 9. The joint assembly according to claim 8, wherein the swivel assembly comprises first and second pinions rotatable with the first and second swivel shafts, respectively. 10. The joint assembly according to claim 9, further comprising first and second racks along which the first and second pinions respectively move during rotation of the swivel shafts, the racks comprising circular arcuate portions. 11. The joint assembly according to claim 10, wherein the circular arcuate portions are disposed such that the center of the curve of each of the circular arcuate portions is at a pivot point about which said pluralities of drive and swivel shafts swivel with at least two degrees of freedom. 12. The joint assembly according to claim 1, wherein the swivel assembly comprises a gimbal assembly. 13. A drive assembly comprising: a motor; a plurality of drive shafts concentrically arranged relative to one another and driven by the motor, the drive shafts being operative independently of one another to selectively operate auxiliary elements; and a plurality of swivel shafts concentrically arranged relative to one another and driven by the motor for permitting swiveling movement of the drive assembly, wherein the drive assembly being configured to simultaneously pivot about each of at least two rotational axis and a common center point of rotation. 14. A joint assembly, comprising: a drive assembly comprising a motor, a plurality of drive shafts driven by the motor, a plurality of swivel shafts driven by the motor, and pinions mounted on the swivel shafts; and a swivel assembly comprising at least two arc-shaped rack members that mate with the pinions mounted on the swivel shafts, the arc-shaped rack members being securable to a foundation so that rotation of the pinions causes the drive assembly to pivot about at least two rotational axis and a common center point of rotation thereby providing at least two degrees of freedom of rotation about said center point of rotation. 15. The joint assembly according to claim 14, wherein the drive shafts are concentrically arranged. 16. The joint assembly according to claim 14, wherein the swivel shafts are concentrically arranged. 17. A joint assembly, comprising: a drive assembly comprising a motor, a plurality of drive shafts driven by the motor, a plurality of swivel shafts driven by the motor, and pinions mounted on the swivel shafts; and a swivel assembly comprising at least two arc-shaped rack members that mate with the pinions mounted on the swivel shafts, the arc-shaped rack members being securable to a foundation so that rotation of the pinions causes the drive assembly to pivot about a pivot point with at least two degrees of freedom; wherein the drive shafts are concentrically arranged and the drive shafts comprise an outermost drive shaft comprising a ball member having a center at the pivot point, the ball member being supported by a bearing member disposed about the ball member. 18. A joint assembly, comprising: a drive assembly comprising a motor, a plurality of drive shafts driven by the motor, a plurality of swivel shafts driven by the motor, and pinions mounted on the swivel shafts; a swivel assembly comprising at least two arc-shaped rack members that mate with the pinions mounted on the swivel shafts, the arc-shaped rack members being securable to a foundation so that rotation of the pinions causes the drive assembly to pivot about a pivot point with at least two degrees of freedom; and a rotating body at least partly enclosing the motor and circumscribing the pivot point. 19. A joint assembly, comprising: a drive assembly comprising a motor, a plurality of drive shafts driven by the motor, a plurality of swivel shafts driven by the motor, and pinions mounted on the swivel shafts; and a swivel assembly comprising at least two arc-shaped rack members that mate with the pinions mounted on the swivel shafts, the arc-shaped rack members being securable to a foundation so that rotation of the pinions causes the drive assembly to pivot about a pivot point with at least two degrees of freedom wherein the drive shafts and said swivel shafts extend from the motor in opposite directions relative to one another. 20. A drive assembly comprising: a motor; a plurality of drive shafts concentrically arranged relative to one another and driven by the motor, the drive shafts being operative independently of one another to selectively operate auxiliary elements; a plurality of swivel shafts concentrically arranged relative to one another and driven by the motor for permitting swiveling movement of the drive assembly; and a body at least partly enclosing the motor, the plurality of drive shafts extending from one side of the body, and the plurality of swivel shafts being diametrically opposed to the drive shafts and extending from an opposite side of the body. 