One aspect of the invention provides an automated system for performing repeated testing using an impactor which comprises a cup manifold defining multiple impaction cups, an impactor head defining transfer passages, and a nozzle manifold which defines multiple nozzles and is disposable between the cup manifold and the impactor head, so that in the assembled impactor a route is defined for through-flow via the impaction cups, the nozzles and the transfer passages. The system comprises an impaction station for performing impaction testing using the assembled impactor; a cup manifold recovery station for recovering sample material from the impactor cups in a solvent; an impactor head cleaning station; and at least one handling system for assembling the impactor for impaction, and for subsequently disassembling the impactor and delivering the cup manifold and the impactor head to their respective stations.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated system for performing repeated testing using an impactor which comprises a cup manifold defining multiple impaction cups, an impactor head defining transfer passages, and a nozzle manifold which defines multiple nozzles and is disposable between the cup manifold and the impactor head, so that in the assembled impactor a route is defined for through-flow via the impaction cups, the nozzles and the transfer passages, the system comprising an impaction station for performing impaction testing using the assembled impactor; a cup manifold recovery station for recovering sample material from the impactor cups in a solvent; an impactor head cleaning station; and at least one handling system for assembling the impactor for impaction, and for subsequently disassembling the impactor and delivering the cup manifold and the impactor head to their respective stations. 2. A system as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a nozzle manifold cleaning station, the handling system being adapted to disassemble the nozzle manifold from the impactor head and deliver the nozzle manifold to its cleaning station. 3. A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising an impactor head handling device having a movable support for carrying the impactor head between stations and an engagement device for releasably coupling the nozzle manifold to the impactor head. 4. A system as claimed in claim 3 further comprising a nozzle manifold cleaning station and a handling system for delivering the nozzle manifold to the nozzle manifold cleaning station. 5. A system as claimed in claim 3 in which the engagement device comprises at least one movable finger for engaging a peripheral region of the nozzle manifold, to couple it to the impactor head. 6. A system as claimed in claim 1, comprising an impactor head handling device having a movable support for carrying the impactor head, the support having a first axis of motion for advancing/retracting the impactor head with respect to the cup manifold to assemble/disassemble the impactor. 7. A system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the support has a second axis of motion for moving the impactor head from one station to another. 8. A system as claimed in claim 6, in which the impactor head handling device is adapted to exert a controlled biasing force upon the impactor head, to urge it toward the cup manifold. 9. A system as claimed in claim 8, comprising an impactor head position sensor for determining when the impactor head is in an acceptable position with respect to the cup manifold. 10. A system as claimed in claim 8 in which one of the impactor head and the cup manifold has a resilient mounting for equalising pressure across the area of contact of the impactor head and the cup manifold. 11. A system as claimed in claim 8 in which the impactor head is fixedly coupled to the movable support and is separated from it by resilient spacers for equalising pressure across the area of contact of the impactor head and the cup manifold. 12. Apparatus for use in an impaction testing arrangement, the apparatus comprising an impactor which has a cup manifold defining multiple impaction cups and an impactor head defining transfer passages each communicating with a respective nozzle, so that in the assembled impactor a route is defined for through-flow via the impaction cups, the nozzles and the transfer passages, the apparatus further comprising an impactor head clean up device having an exposed contact plate provided with multiple fluid outlet apertures connected to a fluid source, the fluid outlet apertures being positioned to correspond to openings of the transfer passages in the impactor head, so that when the impactor head is presented to the contact plate, fluid is able to be output into the transfer passages to clean them. 13. Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, in which the fluid outlet apertures communicate with recess formed in the contact plate. 14. Apparatus as claimed in claim 12, in which the contact plate is provided with a mounting which prevents it from moving. 15. Apparatus for use in an impaction testing arrangement, the apparatus comprising an impactor which comprises a cup manifold defining multiple impaction cups, an impactor head defining transfer passages, and a nozzle manifold which defines multiple nozzles and is disposable between the cup manifold and the impactor head, so that in the assembled impactor a route is defined for through-flow via the impaction cups, the nozzles and the transfer passages, the apparatus further comprising a nozzle manifold wash module comprising first and second wash manifolds shaped to receive the nozzle manifold between themselves, an opening mechanism for moving the first and second wash manifolds with respect to each other between (a) an open configuration which permits the nozzle manifold to be introduced between them and (b) a closed configuration in which each nozzle is contained in a sealed enclosure defined between the first and second wash manifolds, and ports which communicate with the said sealed enclosures formed by the first and second wash manifolds in their closed configuration and which are connectable to a fluid source for passing fluid through the sealed enclosures to carry out washing of the nozzle manifold. 16. A device for cleaning and preparing an impactor preseparator having two ports for through-flow of material being tested, and an internal impaction cup which is to be at least partially filled with liquid for use, the device comprising a preseparator support structure adapted to receive and mount the preseparator and provided with a first closure for closing one of the preseparator ports; a support mounting which provides for a tumbling motion of the support structure; a drive for driving the tumbling motion of the support structure; and a second closure for closing the other of the preseparator ports, the second closure communicating with a fluid reservoir and having at least one opening through which the fluid reservoir communicates, when the second closure is used to close the said preseparator port, with the interior of the preseparator, so that by means of the said drive, the preseparator is movable between (a) an inverted position in which the fluid reservoir is filled with fluid from the interior of the preseparator and (b) an upright position in which fluid is released from the fluid reservoir through the said opening into the internal impaction cup. 17. A device as claimed in claim 16 further comprising a fluid outlet for dispensing fluid into the preseparator. 18. A device as claimed in claim 16, in which the second closure incorporates the fluid reservoir. 