The invention described herein provides systems and methods for handling objects within an imaging system, such as a multi-modal imaging system. An object handling system operates to position an object to be imaged in an interior cavity of a light imaging system, and also moves the object to be imaged between the light imaging system and a second imaging system. The object handling system can include components such as a stage that supports the object, a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior and exterior of the light imaging system and a light seal configured to interface with a light seal on an exterior wall of the light imaging system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An object handling system adapted to position an object in and remove the object from an interior cavity of an imaging chamber included in a light imaging system, the object handling system comprising: a stage that is adapted to support the object; a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the imaging chamber and the ambient area surrounding the imaging chamber; and a light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with a light seal on an exterior wall of the imaging chamber and configured to provide a substantially light tight seal between the interior cavity of the light imaging system and the space outside the light imaging system while the stage is within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber. 2. The object handling system of claim 1 wherein the manipulator is configured to move the stage within the interior cavity of the light imaging system. 3. The object handling system of claim 2 wherein the manipulator is configured to move the state in two dimensions within the interior cavity of the imaging chamber. 4. The object handling system of claim 1 wherein the stage comprises no metal parts. 5. The object handling system of claim 1 wherein the manipulator is configured to be passive while the stage moves in the imaging chamber. 6. The object handling system of claim 5 wherein the manipulator is configured to allow passive rotation about an axis that passes through the imaging chamber. 7. The object handling system of claim 1 wherein a portion of the stage that supports the object is substantially transparent with respect to an MRI imaging system. 8. The object handling system of claim 1 further comprising a gas delivery system configured to deliver an anesthesia gas to at least one gas delivery outlet that provides the anesthesia gas to the object while the object rests on the stage. 9. The object handling system of claim 1 wherein the object handling system light seal is configured to move from a first location to a different second location with respect to said interior cavity and to provide said substantially light tight seal at both first and second locations. 10. An object handling system adapted to position an object in and remove the object from an interior cavity of an imaging chamber included in a light imaging system, the object handling system comprising: a stage that is adapted to supports the object; a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the imaging chamber and the ambient area surrounding the imaging chamber; and a light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with a light seal on an exterior wall of the imaging chamber. 11. The object handling system of claim 10 wherein the light seal disposed on said manipulator comprises a compressible material that is compressed when the stage is positioned in the interior cavity. 12. The object handling system of claim 11 wherein the compressible material creates a substantially light-tight seal that prevents light penetration by light from the ambient area into the interior cavity. 13. An object handling system adapted to position an object in and remove the object from an interior cavity of an imaging chamber included in a light imaging system, the object handling system comprising: a stage that is adapted to supports the object during positioning of the stage; a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the imaging chamber and the ambient area surrounding the imaging chamber; a light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with a light seal on an exterior wall of the imaging chamber; and a gas delivery system configured to deliver an anesthesia gas to at least one gas delivery outlet that provides the anesthesia gas to the object while the object rests on the stage. 14. The object handling system of claim 13 wherein a portion of the stage that supports the object is substantially transparent with respect to an MRI imaging system. 15. An object handling system configured to transfer an object between an interior cavity of an imaging chamber included in a light imaging system and a receiving area of a second imaging system, the object handling system comprising: a stage that is adapted to supports the object; a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the imaging chamber and the ambient area surrounding the imaging chamber and the receiving area of the second imaging system that is separated from the imaging chamber; and a light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with a light seal on an exterior wall of the imaging chamber. 16. The object handling system of claim 15 wherein the second imaging system is an MRI system and wherein the manipulator is configured to move the object into a tubular cavity and position the object for MRI imaging. 17. The object handling system of claim 15 wherein the stage includes no metal parts. 18. The object handling system of claim 15 further comprising a track configured to transport the stage to the vicinity of the light imaging system and the second imaging system. 19. An imaging system for obtaining a representation of a light source located inside an object, the imaging system comprising: an imaging chamber including a) an interior cavity b) a camera c) a camera mount configured to position the camera to capture light data from the object while the object is in the interior cavity, and d) a light seal on an exterior wall of the imaging chamber; and an object handling system for positioning the object in the interior cavity of the imaging chamber, the object handling system comprising: a) a stage that is adapted to supports the object, and b) a manipulator configured to move the stage between the interior cavity of the imaging chamber and the ambient area surrounding the imaging chamber, and c) a light seal disposed on said manipulator and configured to interface with the light seal on an exterior wall of the imaging chamber and provide a substantially light tight seal between the interior cavity of the imaging system and the space outside the imaging chamber while the stage is within the interior cavity. 20. The imaging system of claim 19 wherein the imaging chamber comprises a moveable interface having: a wall with a hole that receives the stage therethrough; a first circular bearing disposed between the exterior wall and the wall of the moveable interface and permits rotation between the exterior wall and the wall of the moveable interface; and a second circular bearing that permits rotation between the wall of the moveable interface and the object handling system. 21. The imaging system of claim 19 wherein the object handling system light seal is configured to move from a first location to a different second location with respect to said interior cavity and to provide said substantially light tight seal at both first and second locations. 