A robotic end effector or blade suitable for transferring a substrate in a processing system is provided. In some embodiments, an end effector can include a body having opposing mounting and distal end, the body fabricated from a single mass of ceramic. The body can include a pair of arcuate lips extending upward from an upper surface of the body. Each lip is disposed on a respective finger disposed at the distal end of the body. An arcuate inner wall extends upward from the upper surface at the mounting end of the body. The inner wall and lips define a substrate receiving pocket. A plurality of contact pads extend upward from the upper surface of the body for supporting the substrate thereon. A recess is formed in a bottom surface of the body to accommodate a mounting clamp.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic end effector suitable for transferring a substrate in a processing system, the end effector comprising: a body having opposing mounting and distal ends, the body fabricated from a single mass of ceramic, the body comprising: a pair of fingers disposed at the distal end of the body; a pair of arcuate lips extending upward from an upper surface of the body, each lip disposed on a respective finger; a plurality of contact pads extending upward from the upper surface of the body wherein the pads have an outer wall and an inner wall, the inner and outer walls of the pads being arc segments; an arcuate inner wall extending upward from the upper surface at the mounting end of the body, the arcuate inner wall and lips defining a substrate receiving pocket; a hole formed through a centerline of the body, wherein the arcuate inner wall and lips are disposed at the same radial distance from a center of the hole, wherein the inner wall of the pads has a radius of about 5.21 inches relative to the center of the hole; and a recess formed in a bottom surface of the body. 2. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the body further comprises: a plurality of mounting holes formed through the body outward of the arcuate inner wall, wherein one end of the mounting holes is open to the recess. 3. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the body weighs about 237 to about 703 grams. 4. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the body is about 99.5 percent alumina by weight. 5. The end effector of claim 1, wherein the outer wall of the pads has a radius of about 5.55 inches relative to the center of the hole. 6. A robotic end effector suitable for transferring a substrate in a processing system, the end effector comprising: an elongated flat body having opposing mounting and distal ends; a pair of fingers disposed at the distal end of the body; a pair of arcuate lips extending upward from an upper surface of the body, each lip disposed on a respective finger a plurality of contact pads extending upward from the upper surface of the body, wherein the pads have an outer wall and an inner wall, the inner and outer walls of the pads being arc segments and wherein the pads, lips and the body fabricated from a single mass of ceramic; an arcuate inner wall extending upward from the upper surface at the mounting end of the body, the arcuate inner wall and lips defining a substrate receiving pocket; a hole formed through a centerline of the body, wherein the arcuate inner wall and lips are disposed at the same radial distance from a center of the hole, wherein the inner wall of the pads has a radius of about 5.21 inches and the outer wall of the pads has a radius of about 5.55 inches relative to the center of the hole; a recess formed in a bottom surface of the body at the mounting end outward of the arcuate inner wall, the recess having a wall extending laterally substantially perpendicular to a centerline of the body; and a plurality of mounting holes formed through the mounting end of the body, wherein one end of the holes is open to the recess. 7. The end effector of claim 6, wherein the body weighs about 237 to about 703 grams. 8. The end effector of claim 6, wherein the body is about 99.5 percent alumina by weight. 9. The end effector of claim 6, wherein the pads extend about 0.75 inches above the body. 10. A robot suitable for transferring a substrate in a vacuum processing system, the robot comprising: a base; a linkage coupled at a first end to the base; a wrist coupled to a second end of the linkage; and an elongated flat end effector, the end effector further comprising: a body having a distal end and a mounting end; a pair of fingers disposed at the distal end of the body; a pair of arcuate lips extending upward from an upper surface of the body, each lip disposed on a respective finger; a plurality of contact pads extending upward from the upper surface of the body, wherein the pads have an outer wall and an inner wall, the inner and outer walls of the pads being arc segments and wherein the pads, lips and the body fabricated from a single mass of ceramic; an arcuate inner wall extending upward from the upper surface at the mounting end of the body, the arcuate inner wall and lips defining a substrate receiving pocket; a hole formed through a centerline of the body, wherein the arcuate inner wall and lips are disposed at the same radial distance from a center of the hole, wherein the outer wall of the pads has a radius of about 5.55 inches relative to the center of the hole; a recess formed in a bottom surface of the body at the mounting end outward of the arcuate inner wall, the recess having a wall extending laterally substantially perpendicular to a centerline of the body; and a plurality of mounting holes formed through the mounting end of the body, wherein one end of the mounting holes is open to the recess. 11. A robot suitable for transferring a substrate in a vacuum processing system, the robot comprising: a base; a linkage coupled at a first end to the base; a wrist coupled to a second end of the linkage; and an elongated flat end effector, the end effector further comprising: a body; a pair of fingers disposed at the distal end of the body; a pair of arcuate lips extending upward from an upper surface of the body, each lip disposed on a respective finger; a plurality of contact pads extending upward from the upper surface of the body, the pads, lips and the body fabricated from a single mass of ceramic; an arcuate inner wall extending upward from the upper surface at the mounting end of the body, the inner wall and lips defining a substrate receiving pocket; a hole formed through a centerline of the body, wherein the inner wall and lips are disposed at the same radial distance from a center of the hole; a recess formed in a bottom surface of the body at the mounting end outward of the inner wall, the recess having a wall extending laterally substantially perpendicular to a centerline of the body; and a plurality of mounting holes formed through the mounting end of the body, wherein one end of the mounting holes is open to the recess; a clamp plate having a plurality of bosses extending therefrom, the bosses extending into the mounting holes of the end effector; and a plurality of fasteners coupling the clamp plate to the wrist. 12. The robot of claim 11, wherein the clamp plate is disposed in the recess of the end effector. 