A laser energy delivery system includes a relay imaging system. Input optics arranged to receive the laser energy, a transmitting mirror having adjustable angle of incidence relative to the input optics, and a robot mounted optical assembly are configured to direct laser energy toward the movable target image plane. The laser energy follows an optical path including an essentially straight segment from the transmitting mirror to the receiving mirror, having a variable length and a variable angle relative to the input optics through air. Diagnostics on the processing head facilitate operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for delivering laser energy from a source of laser energy to a target surface on a work piece, comprising: beam delivery optics having adjustable components arranged to receive the laser energy from an output of the source of laser energy and direct the laser energy along an optical path toward the target surface, the optical path including a variable segment between first and second components of the beam delivery optics having a variable length and variable direction through air and establishing an output beam line, wherein the first component is adjustable to define a direction of the variable segment and a second component is adjustable to define a length of the variable segment and an angle of incidence of the laser energy on the second component; and a controller, coupled to adjustable components of the beam delivery optics, to adjust the first component to change the direction of the variable segment and to adjust the second component to change the length of the variable segment and the an angle of incidence of the laser energy on the second component, in order to move the output beam line for the laser energy among target positions on the target surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, including a diagnostic sensor coupled with the beam delivery optics and to the controller for closed-loop optimization of pointing angles for the output beam line. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, including a diagnostic sensor which senses an image of the laser energy on the target surface. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, including a diagnostic sensor which senses position of the target surface relative to the beam propagation optics. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser energy includes pulses of laser energy, and the controller moves the output beam line between first and second pulses. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser energy includes pulses of laser energy, and the controller moves the output beam line continuously during an interval of time in which a plurality of pulses are supplied by the source. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the laser energy includes pulses of laser energy, and the controller moves the output beam line to cause the pulses to impact the target surface in a first pattern of spots with a stationary work piece in a first position, and to cause the pulses to impact the target surface in a second pattern of spots with a stationary work piece in a second position. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the beam delivery optics comprise: input optics arranged to receive the laser energy from an output of the source of laser energy and to direct the laser energy on a first optical path segment; the first component including a transmitting mirror having an adjustable angle of incidence relative to the first optical path segment and reflecting the laser energy on a second optical path segment, the second optical path segment comprising the variable segment, the second component including a robot mounted optical assembly, the robot mounted optical assembly including a receiving mirror adapted to be positioned in the second optical path segment and having an adjustable angle of incidence relative to the second optical path segment to reflect the laser energy on a third optical path segment, and an output telescope in the third optical path segment directs the laser energy toward the target surface on the output beam line. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the input optics comprise a telescope arranged to project the laser energy along the first optical path. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the input optics comprise a telescope arranged to enlarge a cross-section of the laser energy and project the laser energy along the first optical path for propagation with the enlarged cross-section along the variable segment. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, including a diagnostic sensor which senses alignment of the laser energy with receiving mirror. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, including a diagnostic sensor which senses the adjustable angle of incidence of the receiving mirror. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, including a process platform and a work piece holder on the platform, and wherein the beam delivery optics comprise: input optics arranged to receive the laser energy from an output of the source of laser energy and to direct the laser energy on a first optical path segment; the first component including a transmitting mirror mounted on the platform, and having an adjustable angle of incidence relative to the first optical path segment and reflecting the laser energy on a second optical path segment, the second optical path segment comprising the variable segment, and the second component including a robot mounted optical assembly on the platform, the robot mounted optical assembly including a receiving mirror adapted to be positioned in the second optical path segment and having an adjustable angle of incidence relative to the second optical path segment to reflect the laser energy on a third optical path segment, and an output telescope in the third optical path segment directs the laser energy toward the target surface on the output beam line. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, including a process platform and rail supporting the process platform, and wherein the beam delivery optics comprise input optics arranged to receive the laser energy from an output of the source of laser energy and to direct the laser energy on a first optical path segment; the first component including a transmitting mirror mounted on or near the rail, and having an adjustable angle of incidence relative to the first optical path segment and reflecting the laser energy on a second optical path segment, the second optical path segment comprising the variable segment, and the second component including a robot mounted optical assembly on the process platform, the robot mounted optical assembly including a receiving mirror adapted to be positioned in the second optical path segment and having an adjustable angle of incidence relative to the second optical path segment to reflect the laser energy on a third optical path segment, and an output telescope in the third optical path segment directs the laser energy toward the target surface on the output beam line. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, including a work piece holder and a stage adapted for moving the work piece over a range of motion, and wherein the controller controls movement of the work piece over the range of motion. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, including a work piece holder and a stage adapted for rotating the work piece on a fixed axis over a range of motion, and wherein the controller controls rotation of the work piece over the range of motion. 17. A method for delivering laser energy from a source of laser energy on an adjustable output beam line to a target surface on a work piece, comprising: receiving the laser energy from an output of the source of laser energy on a first component; controlling a first component to direct the laser energy in an adjustable direction; positioning a second component in an adjustable location to receive the laser energy from the first component and controlling the second component to define an adjustable angle of incidence of the laser energy on the second component to define a variable segment of an optical path between the first and second components, the variable segment having a variable length and variable direction through air; and directing the laser energy incident on the second component along the adjustable output beam line for the laser energy; changing the adjustable direction, the adjustable location and the adjustable angle of incidence to move the adjustable output beam line among target positions on the target surface. 18. The method of claim 17, including sensing a characteristic of the laser energy in the output beam line. 19. The method of claim 17, including sensing an image of the laser energy on the target surface. 20. The method of claim 17, including sensing a position of the target surface. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein the laser energy includes pulses of laser energy, and including moving the adjustable output beam line between first and second pulses. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein the laser energy includes pulses of laser energy, and including moving the adjustable output beam line continuously during an interval of time in which a plurality of pulses are supplied by the source. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein the laser energy includes pulses of laser energy, and including moving the adjustable output beam line to cause the pulses to impact the target surface in a first pattern of spots with a stationary work piece in a first position, and to cause the pulses to impact the target surface in a second pattern of spots with a stationary work piece in a second position. 24. The method of claim 17, wherein the second component comprises at least one optical component on a robot mounted optical assembly, and said positioning of the second component includes establishing a position of a robot mounted optical assembly, and adjusting an optical component on the robot mounted optical assembly to define the output beam line for a first pulse of laser energy, and adjusting the optical component without moving the robot mounted optical assembly to define the output beam line for a second pulse of laser energy. 25. The method of claim 17, wherein the first component comprises a transmitting mirror and said controlling a first component, includes: adjusting the transmitting mirror to reflect the laser energy on a second optical path segment, the second optical path segment comprising the variable segment, and wherein the second component comprises a receiving mirror on a robot mounted optical assembly and said controlling the second component to define an adjustable angle of incidence includes adjusting the receiving mirror to reflect the laser energy on a third optical path segment, wherein the third optical path segment directs the laser energy toward the target surface on the output beam line. 26. The method of claim 17, including sensing alignment of the laser energy with receiving mirror. 27. The method of claim 17, including sensing the adjustable angle of incidence of the receiving minor. 28. The method of claim 17, including enlarging a cross-section of the laser energy for propagation with the enlarged cross-section along the variable segment. 29. The method of claim 17, including mounting the work piece on a work piece holder and a stage adapted for moving the work piece over a range of motion, and moving the work piece over the range of motion between pulses of laser energy. 30. The method of claim 17, including using a diagnostic sensor for closed-loop control of the moving of the adjustable output beam line. 