A tool welding system is disclosed that includes a table that heats a tool. A multi-axis robot includes a welding head that is moved relative to the table in response to a command. A controller is in communication with the robot and generates the command in response to welding parameters. The weld parameters are based upon a difference between an initial tool shape and a desired tool shape. The difference between the initial tool shape and the desired tool shape corresponds to a desired weld shape. The desired weld shape is adjusted based upon initial tool shape variations, which includes thermal growth of the tool. The tool is welded to provide the desired weld shape to achieve a desired tool shape.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of welding a tool comprising the steps of: providing a first set of digital data corresponding to an initial tool shape; providing a second set of digital data corresponding to a desired tool shape; determining weld path and weld parameters based upon a difference of the first and second sets of digital data, which results in a desired weld shape; heating a tool having the initial tool shape; adjusting the desired weld path based upon initial tool shape variations, the adjusting step including detecting a position of a heated mould surface indicative of the thermal growth of the tool; and automating welding of the tool according to the weld path and weld parameters to provide the desired weld shape to achieve the desired tool shape. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the initial tool shape provides a part surface corresponding to a product, and the desired tool shape corresponds to a reworked part surface for the same product. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the desired weld shape provides the reworked part surface. 4. The method according to claim 3, comprising the step of finish machining the desired tool shape to provide a class A surface for the reworked part surface. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the heating step includes heating the tool above 400.degree. F. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the heating step includes heating the tool to approximately 700.degree. F. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the detecting step includes mechanically probing the heated mould surface. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the detecting step includes optically sensing the heated mould surface. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the detecting step includes sensing a temperature associated with the mould. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the welding parameters include at least one of a welding speed, a current, an electrode orientation, and a wire feed rate. 