Distributed metrics collection systems and methods can be used to help bind together a large organization by implementing both formal and informal information flows. Hierarchical reporting and tasking are formal information flows. Gossip is an informal information flow. Users use a set of modules to configure distributed metrics collection. Management type users can configure data flows that appear similar to hierarchical reporting. All users can configure data flows that simply distribute items of interest. Over time, the data flows evolve in an organic manner as users appear, move, change interests, and leave.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A collaboration system that enables exchange of information between a plurality of users, comprising: a plurality of nodes, wherein each node is able to be configured to receive data from a user from the plurality of users, to alter data, to aggregate data from other nodes, and to produce a report to present data to a user according to a report definition; a node configuration module, running on at least one computer having hardware, that enables a user from the plurality of users to configure the plurality of nodes such that the plurality of nodes form a network that receives data from at least two users in the plurality of users, aggregates at least some of the received data, and generates a report to present at least some of the aggregated data to at least one user in the plurality of users, wherein the plurality of nodes are configured to enable exchange of information between the plurality of users. 2. The collaboration system of claim 1, wherein the node configuration module enables each user in the plurality of users to configure at least one node in the plurality of nodes. 3. A collaboration system, comprising: a node creation module that enables a user to create a first, second, third, and fourth node, wherein each node has configuration data; a database module implemented on at least one computer having hardware and configured to store the first, second, third, and fourth node; a node configuration module that enables a first user to configure: the first node's configuration data to receive data from a second user and determine a first node datum, the second node's configuration data to receive data from a third user and determine a second node datum, and the third node's configuration data to receive and aggregate the first node datum and second node datum to determine a combined node datum; and a report definition module that enables the first user to configure: a fourth node's configuration data to produce a first report to present the combined node datum as specified according to a first report definition to a fourth user, whereby the first user configures the first, second, third, and fourth nodes to enable collaboration of the second, third, and fourth users. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the first node datum comprises a signature to validate that the first node datum was produced by the first node. 5. The system of claim 3, wherein the first node datum is encrypted. 6. The system of claim 3, wherein the first node datum comprises data identifying the first user. 7. The system of claim 3, wherein the node configuration module enables the first user to configure a fourth node's configuration data to transform the combined node datum, wherein the transformation alters the combined node datum. 8. The system of claim 3, wherein the node configuration module enables each of the second, third and fourth users to configure a node coupled to at least one of the group consisting of the first, second, third, and fourth nodes. 9. A method enabling collaboration between users, comprising: enabling a user to create a first, second, third, and fourth node, wherein each node has configuration data; storing, on at least one computer having hardware, the first, second, third, and fourth node; enabling a first user to configure: the first node's configuration data to receive data from a second user and determine a first node datum, the second node's configuration data to receive data from a third user and determine a second node datum, and the third node's configuration data to receive and aggregate the first node datum and second node datum to determine a combined node datum; and enabling the first user to configure: a fourth node's configuration data to produce a first report to present the combined node datum as specified according to a first report definition to a fourth user, whereby the first user configures the first, second, third, and fourth nodes to enable collaboration of the second, third, and fourth users. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first node datum comprises a signature to validate that the first node datum was produced by the first node. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the first node datum is encrypted. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the first node datum comprises data identifying the first user. 13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: enabling the first user to configure a fourth node's configuration data to transform the combined node datum, wherein the transformation alters the combined node datum. 14. The method of claim 9, further comprising: enabling each of the second, third and fourth users to configure a node coupled to at least one of the group consisting of the first, second, third, and fourth nodes. 