A silicon-based wafer such as a TSV interposer wafer having a first and second surfaces wherein a glass carrier is mounted on the second surface by a UV tape is held by a vacuum holder applied on the first surface and the glass carrier is removed from the silicon-based wafer by irradiating the UV tape with a UV light through the glass carrier. The silicon-based wafer is then flipped and placed onto a vacuum plate and secured to the vacuum plate by applying vacuum to the vacuum plate. The vacuum holder is then released from the silicon-based wafer leaving the silicon-based wafer secured to the vacuum plate for subsequent processing steps.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of handling a silicon-based wafer having a first and second surfaces wherein a glass carrier is mounted on the second surface of the silicon-based wafer by a UV tape, the method comprising: holding the silicon-based wafer by a vacuum holder applied on the first surface of the silicon-based wafer; removing said glass carrier from the silicon-based wafer by irradiating said UV tape with a UV beam through the glass carrier, thereby releasing the UV tape; flipping the silicon-based wafer; placing the silicon-based wafer onto a vacuum plate; securing the silicon-based wafer on the vacuum plate by applying vacuum to the vacuum plate; and releasing the vacuum holder from the silicon-based wafer. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the vacuum plate contacts the second surface of the silicon-based wafer. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the vacuum plate directly contacts the second surface of the silicon-based wafer. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the vacuum plate indirectly contacts the second surface of the silicon-based wafer. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the silicon-based wafer has a thickness less than about 150 .mu.m. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the silicon-based wafer has a thickness less than about 90 .mu.m. 7. A method of packaging a semiconductor device comprising: providing a thin silicon-based wafer having a first and a second surface, said silicon-based wafer mounted to a glass carrier on the second surface by a UV tape; holding the silicon-based wafer by a vacuum holder applied on the first surface of the silicon-based wafer; removing said glass carrier from the silicon-based wafer by irradiating said UV tape with a UV beam through the glass carrier, thereby releasing the UV tape; flipping the silicon-based wafer; placing the silicon-based wafer onto a vacuum plate, said vacuum plate contacting the second surface of the silicon-based wafer; securing the silicon-based wafer on the vacuum plate by applying vacuum to the vacuum plate; releasing the vacuum holder from the silicon-based wafer; and flip-chip bonding one or more semiconductor devices to the silicon-based wafer on the first surface of the silicon-based wafer. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the silicon-based wafer has a thickness less than about 150 .mu.m. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the silicon-based wafer has a thickness less than about 90 .mu.m. 