A method of diagnosing, predicting, or prognosticating about a disease that includes obtaining experimental data, wherein the experimental data is high dimensional data, filtering the data, reducing the dimensionality of the data through use of one or more methods, training a supervised pattern recognition method, ranking individual data points from the data, wherein the ranking is dependent on the outcome of the supervised pattern recognition method, choosing multiple data points from the data, wherein the choice is based on the relative ranking of the individual data points, and using the multiple data points to determine if an unknown set of experimental data indicates a diseased condition, a predilection for a diseased condition, or a prognosis about a diseased condition.
Claims The claimed invention is: 1. A method of diagnosing a disease by distinguishing a first disease from a second disease comprising the steps of: (a) obtaining high dimensional experimental data from a first biological sample known to be of the first disease and a second biological sample known to be of the second disease by isolating nucleic acids or proteins from each biological sample and detecting the nucleic acids or protein from each sample to determine gene expression levels, protein expression levels, single nucleotide polymorphisms, or comparative genomic analysis of each sample; (b) filtering said data by removing data that does not meet a predetermined threshold; (c) reducing the dimensionality of said data by selecting the features of the data; (d) training a supervised pattern recognition method using data obtained from the first biological sample and the second biological sample to obtain a probability distribution relationship between the data obtained from the first biological sample and the first disease and between the data obtained from the second biological sample and the second disease; (e) ranking individual data points from said high dimensional data by determining the sensitivity of the data point to the classification to the first disease or second disease, wherein said ranking is dependent on an outcome of said supervised pattern recognition method; (f) choosing a first set of multiple data points from said high dimensional data as predictive for the first disease and choosing a second set of multiple data points from said high dimensional data as predictive for the second disease, wherein said choice is based on said relative ranking of said individual data points; and (g) determining whether the subject whose disease condition is unknown has the first or second disease by identifying the presence of said first or second set of multiple data points in experimental data obtained from a biological sample from the subject whose disease condition is unknown. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said high dimensional data is gene expression data. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said gene expression data is obtained by using a cDNA or an oligonucleotide microarray. 4. The method of 3, wherein said step of filtering said gene expression data is based on the intensity of the spots on said microarray. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said method of reducing the dimensionality of said data is accomplished by principal component analysis. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said multiple data points chosen from said data comprise at least 96 individual data points. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said first and second disease are chosen from the group consisting of multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, and different types of cancer. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said first and second disease are cancer. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said first and second disease are selected from the group consisting of neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and a Ewing family of tumors. 10. A computer-based method of determining a set of multiple data points for use in diagnosing, predicting, or prognosticating about a disease, the computer-based method comprising: (a) obtaining high dimensional experimental data from a biological sample known to be of the disease by isolating nucleic acids or proteins from each biological sample and detecting the nucleic acids or protein from each sample to determine gene expression levels, protein expression levels, single nucleotide polymorphisms, or comparative genomic analysis of each sample, and receiving the experimental data representing high dimensional data by a receiver module of the computer; (b) filtering the experimental data by removing data that does not meet a predetermined threshold by a filter module; (c) reducing the dimensionality of the experimental data using one or more methods; (d) dividing the experimental data into a training data set and a validation data set; (e) generating a probability distribution relationship between the gene expression data and the disease using the training data and a training module; (f) validating the performance of the probability distribution relationship using the validation data set; (g) generating a ranking data value for each gene corresponding to a relative ranking for individual data points using the data from a trained artificial neural network by using a ranking module; and (h) choosing a set of multiple data points from the data using the ranking data values that is predictive of the presence of the disease; and (i) using the set of data points to detect the presence of the disease in a patient by obtaining high dimensional experimental data from a biological sample from the patient and determining whether the set of multiple data points are present in the biological sample from the patient. 11. A computer readable storage medium comprising: a receiver module for receiving data representing experimental gene expression data obtained from a biological sample known to be of the disease; a filter module encoded to filter the gene expression data; a module that reduces the dimensionality of the gene expression data using principle component analysis; a training module encoded to train and validate a probability distribution relationship using a training data set to generate the probability distribution relationship between the gene expression data and the disease and using a validation data set to validate the probability distribution relationship; a ranking module encoded to generate a ranking data value corresponding to a relative ranking for individual genes using the training module and encoded to choose a set of data points that correspond to multiple genes from the gene expression data using the ranking data value for each gene; and a diagnostic module encoded to diagnose the presence of the disease in the subject by detecting the presence of the set of data points for multiple genes in experimental gene expression data obtained from a biological sample from the subject. 