One aspect relates to detecting at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon fluoresced from substantially within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual at least partially as a result of receiving at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon generated at least partially within at least one X-ray fluorescence event within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual which has been generated responsive to an at least some input energy resulting from a single input energy event, wherein the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon that has passed through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual is at a level to substantially limit interference between the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon with an at least one other induced X-ray fluorescing photon that travel for distances greater than a prescribed limit through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual, wherein the at least one other induced X-ray fluorescing photon attenuates by a prescribed percentage after passing through the prescribed distance through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: detecting at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon fluoresced from substantially within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual at least partially as a result of receiving the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon generated at least partially within at least one X-ray fluorescence event within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual which has been generated responsive to an at least some input energy resulting from a single input energy event, wherein the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon that has passed through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual is at a level to substantially limit interference between the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon with an at least one other induced X-ray fluorescing photon that travels for a distance greater than a prescribed limit through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual, wherein the at least one other induced X-ray fluorescing photon attenuates by a prescribed percentage after passing through the prescribed distance through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon fluoresced from substantially within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual includes X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing at least partially responsive to the at least some input energy being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied from a substantially distinct location of emission of the at least some input energy, a substantially distinct direction of emission of the at least some input energy, and a substantially distinct time of emission of the at least some input energy. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied from a substantially distinct location of emission of the at least some input energy, and a substantially distinct direction of emission of the at least some input energy. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied from a substantially distinct location of emission of the at least some input energy, and a substantially distinct time of emission of the at least some input energy. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied from a substantially distinct direction of emission of the at least some input energy, and a substantially distinct time of emission of the at least some input energy. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied with a substantially distinct location of induced X-ray fluorescence within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the single input energy event comprises energy applied from a substantially distinct location and orientation of emission of the at least some input energy and a substantially distinct position and orientation of induced X-ray fluorescence within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon is performed on a position-by-position basis within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some X-rays. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some gamma rays. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some electrons. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy includes at least some ions. 14. The method of claim 2, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing includes X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing at least partially to a prescribed substantial X-ray fluorescence depth within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 15. The method of claim 2, wherein the X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing includes X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing at least partially to an X-ray fluorescence range of the prescribed substantial X-ray fluorescence depths within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon includes detecting at least partially based on scintillation. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one individual includes at least one from a group of individuals, the group of individuals includes a human, an animal, an organism, and/or a plant. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially includes a group of matter, the group of matter includes at least one from at least one tissue, at least one bodily fluid, at least a portion of a bone, a boney portion, or at least one bone portion or bone fragment, at least a tooth, or a portion thereof, or an at least partially internal insert. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon has an energy of an energy range group, the energy range group includes at least one of greater than or equal to 1 KeV, greater than or equal to 10 KeV, or greater than or equal to 100 KeV. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon comprises: an at least one anatomically induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon comprises: an at least one functionally induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 22. An apparatus, comprising: an X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion configured to detect at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon fluoresced from substantially within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual at least partially as a result of receiving the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon generated at least partially within at least one X-ray fluorescence event within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual which has been generated responsive to an at least some input energy from a single input energy event, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion is configured to detect the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon after it has passed through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at a level to substantially limit interference between the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon with an at least one other induced X-ray fluorescing photon that travels for a distance greater than a prescribed limit through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual and that attenuate by a prescribed percentage after passing through the prescribed distance through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising a high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion configured to induce the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at the X-ray fluorescence event within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual responsive to the at least some input energy from the single input energy event being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual, and wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion is configured to X-ray fluorescence visualize, image, or provide information at least partially in response to the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion configured to induce the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at a X-ray fluorescence event. 24. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion is configured to determine at least some matter density and at least some matter composition of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 25. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion is configured to receive the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon having an energy of an energy range group, the energy range group including at least one of greater than or equal to 1 KeV, greater than or equal to 10 KeV, or greater than or equal to 100 KeV. 26. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein an at least one operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a human user. 27. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein an at least an operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a machine-based user. 28. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy with a controllable timing. 29. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy with a controllable energy. 30. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy at a controllable location. 31. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy with a controllable direction. 32. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion comprises at least one energy level detector. 33. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion comprises at least one photodetector. 34. The apparatus of claim 22, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion comprises at least one X-ray spectrometer. 35. A method, comprising: applying at least some input energy within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual; detecting at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon fluoresced from substantially within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual at least partially as a result of receiving the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon generated at least partially within at least one X-ray fluorescence event within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual which has been generated responsive to the applied at least some input energy, wherein the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon that has passed through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual is at a level to substantially limit interference between the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon with an at least one other induced X-ray fluorescing photon that travel for distances greater than a prescribed limit through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual, wherein the at least one other induced X-ray fluorescing photon attenuates by a prescribed percentage after passing through the prescribed distance through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 36. A method, comprising: detecting at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon that X-ray fluoresces from a target atom or fluorophore that may be situated at a variety of prescribed depths within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual at least partially as a result of receiving the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon provided by at least one X-ray fluorescence event that has passed through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual, wherein the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon attenuates to a level to substantially limit interference from an at least one other induced X-ray fluorescing photon traveling for a distance greater than a prescribed limit through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual by the at least one other induced X-ray fluorescing photon substantially attenuating to some prescribed percentage of attenuation after passing through the distance greater than the prescribed limit through the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 