Software for controlling processes in a heterogeneous semiconductor manufacturing environment may include a wafer-centric database, a real-time scheduler using a neural network, and a graphical user interface displaying simulated operation of the system. These features may be employed alone or in combination to offer improved usability and computational efficiency for real time control and monitoring of a semiconductor manufacturing process. More generally, these techniques may be usefully employed in a variety of real time control systems, particularly systems requiring complex scheduling decisions or heterogeneous systems constructed of hardware from numerous independent vendors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: providing a linear semiconductor processing facility for processing workpieces wherein a plurality of robots are configured to handoff the workpiece to one another, the linear semiconductor processing facility being sealable for forming a sealed environment having a first and second load lock where at least one of the plurality of robots is located within the sealed environment, the linear semiconductor processing facility having a mid-entry load lock positioned between the first and second load locks and configured to at least one of add the workpieces to the sealed environment and remove the workpiece from the sealed environment; retrieving the workpiece with a first robot in a first horizontal plane; moving the workpiece to a second horizontal plane; handing the workpiece off to a second robot in the second horizontal plane; and creating a data structure for the workpiece, the data structure including an identity of the workpiece and one or more fields for storing information relating to the workpiece. 2. The method of claim 1, further including processing the workpiece on each of the first and second horizontal planes. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the semiconductor handling facility includes a tunnel-based cart workpiece transport facility. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein workpiece transport status associated with the tunnel-based cart transport facility is included in the information relating to the workpiece. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the linear processing facility comprises modularly assembled modules. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein at least one linear semiconductor processing module can be added to the semiconductor processing facility without reconfiguring existing modules. 7. The method of claim 1, further including a neural network enabled software controller for controlling the semiconductor processing facility. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the controller accesses the data structure for a workpiece to control the semiconductor processing facility. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the information relating to the workpiece includes information related to processing of the workpiece. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein processing includes at least one of heating and cooling. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the information relating to processing includes a reference to data associated with physical device attributes that is stored in a data library for simulation of a physical device, wherein the physical device is included in the linear semiconductor processing facility. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the information relating to the workpiece includes technical information related to a process associated with the workpiece. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the information relating to the workpiece includes workpiece edge sensing data. 14. A system comprising: a linear semiconductor processing facility for processing workpieces wherein a plurality of robots are configured to handoff the workpiece to one another, the linear semiconductor processing facility being sealable for forming a sealed environment having a first and second load lock where at least one of the plurality of robots is located within the sealed environment, the linear semiconductor processing facility having a mid-entry load lock positioned between the first and second load locks and configured to at least one of add the workpieces to the sealed environment and remove the workpiece from the sealed environment; a first robot in a first horizontal plane for retrieving the workpiece and for moving the workpiece to a second horizontal plane; a second robot in the second horizontal plane for receiving the workpiece from the first robot; and a data structure for the workpiece, the data structure including an identity of the workpiece and one or more fields for storing information relating to the workpiece. 15. The system of claim 14, further including workpiece processing module on each of the first and second horizontal planes. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein the semiconductor handling facility includes a tunnel-based cart workpiece transport facility. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein workpiece transport status associated with the tunnel-based cart transport facility is included in the information relating to the workpiece. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein the linear processing facility comprises modularly assembled modules. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein at least one linear semiconductor processing module can be added to the semiconductor processing facility without reconfiguring existing modules. 20. The system of claim 14, further including a neural network enabled software controller for controlling the semiconductor processing facility. 