A disclosed scanner apparatus includes a member having spaced apart proximal and distal portions. An electromagnetic radiation device is configured to direct electromagnetic radiation therefrom and is movably coupled to the distal portion of the member. The electromagnetic radiation device is configured to move in a first plane of movement to a first position to direct the electromagnetic radiation along a first path and configured to move in the plane of movement to a second position to direct the electromagnetic radiation along a second path. A MicroElectroMechanical Systems (MEMS) actuator is coupled to the electromagnetic radiation device, wherein the MEMS actuator is configured to move in a first direction to move the electromagnetic radiation device to the first position and configured to move in a second direction to move the electromagnetic radiation device to the second position. Other scanning and robotic structure devices are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An optical scanner apparatus comprising: a member having spaced apart proximal and distal portions; an optical scanning device, configured to direct optical radiation, moveably coupled to the proximal portion of the member and configured to rotate in a plane of movement to a first position to direct the optical radiation along a first path and configured to rotate in the plane of movement to a second position to direct the optical radiation along a second path; and an electrostatically actuated MicroElectroMechanical Systems (MEMS) actuator coupled to the optical scanning device, wherein the electrostatically actuated MEMS actuator is configured to move in a first direction to move the optical scanning device to the first position and configured to move in a second direction to move the optical scanning device to the second position; wherein the electrostatically actuated MEMS actuator has proximal and distal portions; and wherein the distal portion of the electrostatically actuated MEMS actuator is coupled to the proximal portion of the member and the proximal portion of the electrostatically actuated MEMS actuator is coupled to the optical scanning device. 2. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising: a hinge that moveably couples the optical scanning device to the proximal portion of the member, wherein the optical scanning device pivots in the plane of movement about the hinge when the optical scanning device is moved by the electrostatically actuated MEMS actuator. 3. A scanner apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the hinge comprises one of a torsion hinge and a flexion hinge. 4. A scanner apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the hinge comprises polyimide. 5. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the optical scanning device comprises a reflector, wherein the scanner apparatus further comprises: an optical radiation source that projects optical radiation on the reflector, wherein the optical radiation source is selected from the list consisting of a laser light source, a confocal microscope system, an ultraviolet light source, an infrared light source, an image data source, and an Alexandrite laser. 6. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the optical scanning device comprises a reflector, wherein the scanner apparatus further comprises: an optical radiation source that projects optical radiation on the reflector; and an ultrasound source on the reflector that is configured to generate ultrasonic radiation. 7. A scanner apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the reflector comprises gold. 8. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the optical scanning device comprises a focusing reflector that reflects optical radiation projected thereon to direct reflected optical radiation along a path. wherein the optical radiation is focused at a distance from the focusing reflector along the path. 9. A scanner apparatus according to claim 8, the focusing reflector further comprising: a substrate layer; a reflective layer on the substrate layer; and an optically transparent layer, on the reflective layer, having a convex surface configured to face away from the reflective layer, wherein the optical radiation passes through the optically transparent layer to the reflective layer and reflects from the reflective layer through the optically transparent layer along the path. 10. A scanner apparatus according to claim 8, the focusing reflector further comprising: a substrate layer having a concave surface; and a reflective layer on the concave surface, wherein the optical radiation reflects from the reflective layer along the path. 11. A scanner apparatus according to claim 8, the focusing reflector further comprising: a voltage supply that generates a voltage level; a substrate layer electrically coupled to the voltage supply; a flexible membrane layer spaced apart from the substrate layer and electrically coupled to the voltage supply, wherein the flexible membrane is configured to deflect towards the substrate layer to assume a concave shape in response to the voltage level; and a reflective layer on the flexible membrane layer that is configured to reflect the optical radiation along the path. 12. An optical scanner apparatus comprising: a member having spaced apart proximal and distal portions; an optical scanning device comprising a reflector, configured to direct optical radiation. moveably coupled to the proximal portion of the member and configured to rotate in a plane of movement to a first position to direct the optical radiation along a first path and configured to rotate in the plane of movement to a second position to direct the optical radiation along a second path; an electrostatically actuated MicroEleetroMechanical Systems (MEMS) actuator coupled to the optical scanning device, wherein the electrostatically actuated MEMS actuator is configured to move in a first direction to move the optical scanning device to the first position and configured to mow in a second direction to move the optical scanning device to the second position; an optical radiation source that projects optical radiation on the reflector; and an ultrasound source on the reflector that is configured to generate ultrasonic radiation. 13. A scanner apparatus according to claim 12 wherein the reflector comprises gold. 14. An optical scanner apparatus comprising: a member having spaced apart proximal and distal portions; an optical scanning device, configured to direct optical radiation, moveably coupled to the proximal portion of the member and configured to rotate in a plane of movement to a first position to direct the optical radiation along a first path and configured to rotate in the plane of movement to a second position to direct the optical radiation along a second path; and an electrostatically actuated MicroElectroMechanical Systems (MEMS) actuator coupled to the optical scanning device, wherein the electrostatically actuated MEMS actuator is configured to move in a first direction to move the optical scanning device to the first position and configured to move in a second direction to move the optical scanning device to the second position; wherein the optical scanning device comprises a focusing reflector that reflects optical radiation projected thereon to direct reflected optical radiation along a path, wherein the optical radiation is focused at a distance from the focusing reflector along the path. 15. A scanner apparatus according to claim 14, the focusing reflector further comprising: a substrate layer a reflective layer on the substrate layer and an optically transparent layer, on the reflective layer, having a convex surface configured to face away from the reflective layer, wherein the optical radiation passes through the optically transparent layer to the reflective layer and reflects from the reflective layer through the optically transparent layer along the path. 16. A scanner apparatus according to claim 14, the focusing reflector further comprising: a substrate layer having a concave surface; and a reflective layer on the concave surface, wherein the optical radiation reflects from the reflective layer along the path. 17. A scanner apparatus according to claim 14, the focusing reflector further comprising: a voltage supply that generates a voltage level; a substrate layer electrically coupled to the voltage supply; a flexible membrane layer spaced apart from the substrate layer and electrically coupled to the voltage supply, wherein the flexible membrane is configured to deflect towards the substrate layer to assume a concave shape in response to the voltage level; and a reflective layer on the flexible membrane layer that is configured to reflect the optical radiation along the path. 