An improved field emission system and method is provided that involves field emission structures having electric or magnetic field sources. The magnitudes, polarities, and positions of the magnetic or electric field sources are configured to have desirable correlation properties, which may be in accordance with a code. The correlation properties correspond to a desired spatial force function where spatial forces between field emission structures correspond to relative alignment, separation distance, and the spatial force function.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for producing a spatial force, comprising: providing a first object having a first plurality of field sources; providing a second object having a second plurality of field sources, each of said first plurality of field sources and said second plurality of field sources having a position, a polarity, and a field strength in accordance with a desired spatial force function; and moving at least one of said first object or said second object to align at least some of said first plurality of field sources with at least some of said second plurality of field sources to produce a desired spatial force, said spatial force function being in accordance with a code, said code corresponding to a code modulo of said first plurality of field sources and a complementary code modulo of said second plurality of field sources, said code defining a peak spatial force corresponding to substantial alignment of said code modulo of said first plurality of field sources with said complementary code modulo of said second plurality of field sources, said code also defining a plurality of off peak spatial forces corresponding to a plurality of different misalignments of said code modulo of said first plurality of field sources and said complementary code modulo of said second plurality of field sources, said plurality of off peak spatial forces having a largest off peak spatial force, said largest off peak spatial force being less than half of said peak spatial force. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said desired spatial force is one of a peak attractive spatial force or a peak repellant spatial force. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein each one of said first plurality of field sources is aligned with a corresponding one of said second plurality of field sources. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said polarity of each one of said first plurality of field sources is the same as said polarity of said corresponding one of said second plurality of field sources. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said polarity of each one of said first plurality of field sources is the opposite of said polarity of said corresponding one of said second plurality of field sources. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein misalignment of said first plurality of field sources and said second plurality of field sources results in a substantial cancellation of at least one field. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first object and said second object comprises at least one of a permanent magnet, an electromagnet, an electret, a magnetized ferromagnetic material, a portion of a magnetized ferromagnetic material, a magnetized antiferromagnetic material, a portion of a magnetized antiferromagnetic material, a soft magnetic material, a superconductive magnetic material, an intermediate layer, a kill mechanism, a heat sink material, a cylindrical object, a spherical object, a conical object, a planar object, a curved object, a stepped object, a table, a track, a shoe, a glove, a structural beam, a robot, a hovering object, a surface, a pivot mechanism, a structural member, a cover panel, a latch mechanism, an alignment mark, a lever, a hinged latch clip, a latch knob, a turning mechanism, a swivel mechanism, a housing, a rotating shaft, a cutting edge, a bump pad, a windmill, a water wheel, a turbine, an engine, an energy scavenging device, an axle, a window, a refrigerator, a freezer, a food storage container, a boat hatch, a submarine hatch, a gasket, an o-ring, a hydraulic cylinder, a pneumatic cylinder, a gas cylinder, a pumping device, a floor, a ceiling, a roof, a shingle, a frame, a toy, a puzzle, a construction set, a belt, a harness, a boot, a skateboard, a ski, a cargo container, a scanner, a printer, a plotter, a television, a computer monitor, a generator, a transformer, a watch, or a jewelry item. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said first object and said second object correspond to at least one of a valve mechanism, a locking mechanism, a holding mechanism, a clasp mechanism, a sealing mechanism, a pressing mechanism, a pressure control mechanism, a hydraulic control mechanism, a ball joint, a wheel, a gear, a bearing, a prosthetic device, a fastening device, a tool, a machine, a motor, a placing mechanism, a lifting mechanism, a directing mechanism, a vehicular system, a robotic control system, an assembly system, a computer numerical control machine, a cross-bracing, a truss, a wall structure, a piece of furniture, an electronic connector, a plumbing connector, an attachment mechanism, a scaffold structure, a traction device, a flow control system, a storm shutter, a button, a drawer fastener, a door fastener, a safe, a fishing net, a crab cage, a microphone, a speaker, a hinge, or a measurement system. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first plurality of field sources or said second plurality of field sources is in accordance with at least one code. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of said first plurality of field sources or said second plurality of field sources comprises at least one of a magnetic field source or an electric field source. 11. A system for producing a spatial force, comprising: a first object having a first plurality of field sources; and a second object having a second plurality of field sources, each of said first plurality of field sources and said second plurality of field sources having a position, a polarity, and a field strength in accordance with a desired spatial force function, said first object and said second object producing a desired spatial force when at least some of said first plurality of field sources are brought into a desired alignment with at least some of said second plurality of field sources, said spatial force function being in accordance with a code, said code corresponding to a code modulo of said first plurality of field sources and a complementary code modulo of said second plurality of field sources, said code defining a peak spatial force corresponding to substantial alignment of said code modulo of said first plurality of field sources with said complementary code modulo of said second plurality of field sources, said code also defining a plurality of off peak spatial forces corresponding to a plurality of different misalignments of said code modulo of said first plurality of field sources and said complementary code modulo of said second plurality of field sources, said plurality of off peak spatial forces having a largest off peak spatial force, said largest off peak spatial force being less than half of said peak spatial force. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said desired spatial force is one of a peak attractive spatial force or a peak repellant spatial force. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein each one of said first plurality of field sources is aligned with a corresponding one of said second plurality of field sources. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein said polarity of each one of said first plurality of field sources is the same as said polarity of said corresponding one of said second plurality of field sources. 15. The system of claim 13, wherein said polarity of each one of said first plurality of field sources is the opposite of said polarity of said corresponding one of said second plurality of field sources. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein misalignment of said first plurality of field sources and said second plurality of field sources results in a substantial cancellation of at least one field. 17. The system of claim 11, wherein at least one of said first object and said second object comprises at least one of a permanent magnet, an electromagnet, an electret, a magnetized ferromagnetic material, a portion of a magnetized ferromagnetic material, a magnetized antiferromagnetic material, a portion of a magnetized antiferromagnetic material, a soft magnetic material, a superconductive magnetic material, an intermediate layer, a kill mechanism, a heat sink material, a cylindrical object, a spherical object, a conical object, a planar object, a curved object, a stepped object, a table, a track, a shoe, a glove, a structural beam, a robot, a hovering object, a surface, a pivot mechanism, a structural member, a cover panel, a latch mechanism, an alignment mark, a lever, a hinged latch clip, a latch knob, a turning mechanism, a swivel mechanism, a housing, a rotating shaft, a cutting edge, a bump pad, a windmill, a water wheel, a turbine, an engine, an energy scavenging device, an axle, a window, a refrigerator, a freezer, a food storage container, a boat hatch, a submarine hatch, a gasket, an o-ring, a hydraulic cylinder, a pneumatic cylinder, a gas cylinder, a pumping device, a floor, a ceiling, a roof, a shingle, a frame, a toy, a puzzle, a construction set, a belt, a harness, a boot, a skateboard, a ski, a cargo container, a scanner, a printer, a plotter, a television, a computer monitor, a generator, a transformer, a watch, or a jewelry item. 18. The system of claim 11, wherein said first object and said second object correspond to at least one of a valve mechanism, a locking mechanism, a holding mechanism, a clasp mechanism, a sealing mechanism, a pressing mechanism, a pressure control mechanism, a hydraulic control mechanism, a ball joint, a wheel, a gear, a bearing, a prosthetic device, a fastening device, a tool, a machine, a motor, a placing mechanism, a lifting mechanism, a directing mechanism, a vehicular system, a robotic control system, an assembly system, a computer numerical control machine, a cross-bracing, a truss, a wall structure, a piece of furniture, an electronic connector, a plumbing connector, an attachment mechanism, a scaffold structure, a traction device, a flow control system, a storm shutter, a button, a drawer fastener, a door fastener, a safe, a fishing net, a crab cage, a microphone, a speaker, a hinge, or a measurement system. 19. The system of claim 11, wherein at least one of said first plurality of field sources or said second plurality of field sources is in accordance with at least one code. 20. The system of claim 11, wherein at least one of said first plurality of field sources or said second plurality of field sources comprises at least one of a magnetic field source or an electric field source. 