Disclosed is a system and program for using storage slots efficiently. A storage element count is assigned to each one of multiple logical libraries, and the sum of the storage element count for each one of the multiple logical libraries exceeds the total number of storage slots in the library.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An article of manufacture for using storage slots, wherein the article of manufacture includes code that, when executed by a processor on a computer, causes operations to be performed, the operations comprising: partitioning a physical library into multiple logical libraries; and assigning a storage element count to each one of the multiple logical libraries, wherein a sum of the storage element count assigned to each one of the multiple logical libraries exceeds a total number of storage slots in the physical library. 2. The article of manufacture of claim 1, wherein the storage element count for one or more of the multiple logical libraries is equal to a total number of storage slots in the physical library. 3. The article of manufacture of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: allowing one or more of the multiple logical libraries to be associated with any storage slot in the physical library. 4. An article of manufacture for assigning storage slots, wherein the article of manufacture includes code that, when executed by a processor on a computer, causes operations to be performed, the operations comprising: partitioning a physical library into one or more logical libraries; assigning a storage slot count greater than a total number of storage slots in the physical library to the one or more logical libraries; adding new storage slots to the physical library; and allowing one or more of the logical libraries to be associated with the newly added storage slots without reconfiguration of the physical library. 5. The article of manufacture of claim 4, wherein the storage slot count equals a maximum number of storage slots that may subsequently be in the physical library. 6. The article of manufacture of claim 4, wherein the operations further comprise: adding a new frame to the physical library that includes the new storage slots. 7. The article of manufacture of claim 4, wherein the new storage slots comprise storage slots whose status is changed from a status of not being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries to being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries. 8. A library, comprising: means for partitioning a physical library into multiple logical libraries; and means for assigning a storage element count to each one of the multiple logical libraries, wherein a sum of the storage element count assigned to each one of the multiple logical libraries exceeds a total number of storage slots in the physical library. 9. The library of claim 8, wherein the storage element count for one or more of the multiple logical libraries is equal to a total number of storage slots in the physical library. 10. The library of claim 8, further comprising: means for allowing one or more of the multiple logical libraries to be associated with any storage slot in the physical library. 11. A library, comprising: means for partitioning a physical library into one or more logical libraries; means for assigning a storage slot count greater than a total number of storage slots in the physical library to the one or more logical libraries; means for adding new storage slots to the physical library; and means for allowing one or more of the logical libraries to be associated with the newly added storage slots without reconfiguration of the physical library. 12. The library of claim 11, wherein the storage slot count equals a maximum number of storage slots that may subsequently be in the physical library. 13. The library of claim 11, further comprising: means for adding a new frame to the physical library that includes the new storage slots. 14. The library of claim 11, wherein the new storage slots comprise storage slots whose status is changed from a status of not being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries to being eligible to be associated with one or more of the logical libraries. 