The present invention concerns a method and an apparatus for automatic staining of at least one tissue sample accommodated on a slide by applying reagents. The system may include at least one slide provided in a slide rack, a fluid containment element, a slide holder, a vertical slide positioner to pivot the slides to a vertical position, and a slide immerser element to immerse the vertical slide into a fluid containment element or even a dip tank. By pivoting the slides from a horizontal to a vertical position, an automated method and apparatus for carrying out a pretreatment in an automated staining apparatus may be provided. The pivoting of slides may ensure an appropriate orientation of the slides for both the pretreatment and the staining processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automatic stainer system for staining at least one tissue sample, comprising: at least one slide comprising the at least one tissue sample; at least one reagent; at least one fluid containment element containing fluid for application to said at least one tissue sample; a slide rack comprising the at least one slide, said slide rack further including a slide positioner element adapted to pivot said at least one slide between at least a first disposition and a second disposition, wherein the first disposition is for submerging said at least one slide into said fluid in said fluid containment element and the second disposition is for application of said at least one reagent onto said at least one tissue sample; a slide elevator for lowering said slide rack when said slide is pivoted to the first disposition, and submerging said at least one slide into said fluid containment element; and a reagent application element adapted to apply said at least one reagent to said at least one tissue sample during a staining operation performed on said at least one tissue sample when said at least one slide is pivoted to the second disposition. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one reagent comprises at least two reagents arranged in a sequence according to a staining protocol. 3. The system according to claim 1, wherein said at least one fluid containment element applies the fluid to said at least one tissue sample during at least one pre-treatment operation performed prior to the staining operation. 4. The system according to claim 3, wherein said at least one pre-treatment operation comprises removal of an embedding medium from said at least one tissue sample. 5. The system according to claim 4, wherein the at least one pre-treatment operation is chosen from the group consisting of target retrieval and deparaffinization. 6. The system according to claim 5, wherein said at least one pre-treatment operation comprises both target retrieval and removal of an embedding medium from said at least one tissue sample. 7. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: a drawer assembly adapted to retract from said system, wherein said drawer assembly comprises the slide rack. 8. The system according to claim 7, wherein said drawer assembly comprises a plurality of said drawer assemblies, each adapted to cooperate with said fluid containment element, at least one transfer tank, a supply tank, and at least one waste tank. 9. The system according to claim 1, wherein said fluid containment element comprises a heating member adapted to heat the fluid. 10. The system according to claim 1, wherein said fluid containment element comprises a dip tank. 11. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: a pneumatic element adapted to transfer liquid from a supply tank to a transfer tank and from said transfer tank to said fluid containment element; and a drain element adapted to remove liquid from said fluid containment element to said transfer tank and from said transfer tank to a waste collection tank. 12. The system according to claim 1, wherein the first disposition is a substantially vertical disposition and the second disposition is a substantially horizontal disposition. 13. An automatic stainer system for staining at least one tissue sample, comprising: at least one slide comprising the at least one tissue sample; at least one reagent; at least one fluid containment element containing fluid for application to said at least one tissue sample during at least one pre-treatment operation performed on said at least one tissue sample prior to a staining operation, wherein said at least one pre-treatment operation is chosen from the group consisting of target retrieval and deparaffinization; a slide rack comprising the at least one slide, said slide rack further including a slide positioner element adapted to pivot said at least one slide between at least a first disposition and a second disposition, wherein the first disposition is for submerging said at least one slide into said fluid in said fluid containment element and the second disposition is for application of said at least one reagent onto said at least one tissue sample; a slide elevator for lowering said slide rack when said slide is pivoted to the first disposition, and submerging said at least one slide into said fluid containment element; and a reagent application element adapted to apply said at least one reagent to said at least one tissue sample during a staining operation performed on said at least one tissue sample when said at least one slide is pivoted to the second disposition. 14. The system according to claim 13, wherein said at least one reagent comprises at least two reagents arranged in a sequence according to a staining protocol. 15. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: a drawer assembly adapted to retract from said system, wherein said drawer assembly comprises the slide rack. 16. The system according to claim 15, wherein said drawer assembly comprises a plurality of said drawer assemblies, each adapted to cooperate with said fluid containment element, at least one transfer tank, a supply tank, and at least one waste tank. 17. The system according to claim 13, wherein said fluid containment element comprises a heating member adapted to heat the fluid. 18. The system according to claim 13, wherein said fluid containment element comprises a dip tank. 19. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: a pneumatic element adapted to transfer liquid from a supply tank to a transfer tank and from said transfer tank to said fluid containment element; and a drain element adapted to remove liquid from said fluid containment element to said transfer tank and from said transfer tank to a waste collection tank. 20. The system according to claim 13, wherein the first disposition is a substantially vertical disposition and the second disposition is a substantially horizontal disposition. 