An apparatus and a method for optimizing robot performance includes a computer connected to the robot controller for receiving performance data of the robot as the controller executes a path program. The computer uses the performance data, user specified optimization objectives and constraints and a kinematic/dynamic simulator to generate a new set of control system parameters to replace the default set in the controller. The computer repeats the process until the new set of control system parameters is optimized.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot control system, comprising: a robot; a first control means including a controller connected to said robot and executing a control program, said robot being operated in accordance with control system parameters specified in said control program; means for monitoring actual performance data of said robot during the operation of said robot; and a second control means connected to said controller and to said means for monitoring, said second control means being responsive to said actual performance data for automatically applying optimization routines to a kinematic/dynamic simulator to modify said control system parameters in said control program in real-time while said robot is operated by said controller. 2. The robot control system according to claim 1 wherein said second control means is a personal computer. 3. The robot control system according to claim 1 wherein said controller, said means for monitoring and said second control means are connected by a communication link for data transfer. 4. The robot control system according to claim 3 wherein said communication link is a computer network. 5. The robot control system according to claim 1 wherein said means for monitoring includes means for generating feedback signals from motors operating said robot. 6. The robot control system according to claim 5 wherein said feedback signals include motor currents of said motors. 7. The robot control system according to claim 1 wherein said second control means includes user specified optimization objectives and constraints for modifying said control system parameters. 8. In a robot system including a manipulator and a controller, a method for optimizing a robot path program within given objectives and accommodating variations in dynamic performance among otherwise similar robots, comprising the steps of: a. generating a path program for a robot by a conventional robot teaching method; b. providing a computer with a dynamic model of the robot and its control system parameters and an optimization program; c. providing the computer with target performance objectives; d. connecting the controller for communication with the computer; e. operating the robot by the controller executing the path program under a default set of control system parameters; f. monitoring a set of performance variables of the robot during operation; g. communicating the performance variables to the computer; h. executing the optimization program in the computer using the dynamic model and the performance variables to meet the target performance objectives; i. generating a new set of control system parameters; j. communicating the new set of control system parameters to the controller; k. assigning the new set of control system parameters to the path program as the default set of control system parameters; l. repeating said steps e. through k. until the new set of control system parameters is substantially similar to the default set of control system parameters resulting in an optimized default set of control system parameters, wherein said control system parameters are automatically modified in said control program in real-time while said robot is operated by said controller; and m. disconnecting the computer from the controller as the controller continues to operate the robot by executing the path program under the optimized default set of control system parameters. 9. The method according claim 8 wherein one of the target performance objectives is a cycle time of the robot. 10. The method according to claim 9 wherein the performance variables include axis motor current and axis encoder counts. 11. The method according claim 8 wherein one of the target performance objectives is robot path accuracy. 12. The method according to claim 11 wherein the performance variables include axis encoder errors, axis motor current, axis encoder counts, and servo gains. 13. A robot control system, comprising: a robot; a robot controller connected to said robot and executing a control program, said robot being operated in accordance with control system parameters specified in said control program; means for monitoring actual performance data of said robot during the operation of said robot; and a computer connected to said robot controller and to said means for monitoring by a communication link, said computer being responsive to said actual performance data for automatically applying optimization routines to a mathematical simulation model to modify said control system parameters in said control program in real-time while said robot is operated by said controller. 14. The robot system according to claim 13, further comprising an optimization program embedded into said second control means for analyzing said actual performance data and interacting with said mathematical model and said robot to test and modify said control system parameters until desired performance objectives are realized by said robot. 15. The robot control system according to claim 13, wherein said means for monitoring includes the mathematical simulation model of said robot. 16. The robot system according to claim 15, further comprising an optimization program embedded into said computer for analyzing said actual performance data and interacting with said mathematical model and said robot to test and modify said control system parameters until desired performance objectives are realized by said robot. 