Methods and devices are provided for traversing a lumen of a tubular body part, such as the large or small intestine, the colon, the bladder, the stomach, etc. In an exemplary embodiment, the methods and devices utilize electroactive polymers that are selectively actuated to move a device through a lumen.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A lumen traversing medical device, comprising: a flexible elongate member having proximal and distal electroactive actuators coupled to proximal and distal portions thereof and adapted to expand radially to engage an inner wall of a lumen upon application of energy thereto, and a plurality of intermediate electroactive actuators coupled thereto and positioned between the proximal and distal electroactive actuators, each intermediate electroactive actuator having an elongate length with a central longitudinal axis, the central longitudinal axis of each intermediate electroactive actuator being positioned along a length of the flexible elongate member in parallel with and offset from a longitudinal axis of the flexible elongate member and being adapted to change a length of the flexible elongate member upon application of energy thereto, wherein the proximal and distal electroactive actuators retain a single shape in both an expanded configuration and a contracted configuration. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the proximal, intermediate, and distal actuators are adapted to be actuated with energy to move the device through a lumen. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the proximal, intermediate, and distal actuators are adapted to be sequentially actuated with energy to move the device through a lumen. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein the proximal and distal actuators are disposed around proximal and distal portions of the flexible elongate member, and the intermediate actuator is disposed between the proximal and distal actuators and extends along at least a portion of a length of the flexible elongate member. 5. The device of claim 4, wherein the intermediate actuator comprises a plurality of elongate bands extending along at least a portion of a length of the flexible elongate member. 6. The device of claim 5, wherein the plurality of elongate bands are spaced substantially equidistant from one another around a circumference of the flexible elongate member. 7. The device of claim 4, wherein the proximal, distal, and intermediate actuators each comprise a flexible conductive outer shell having an electroactive polymer and an ionic fluid disposed therein. 8. The device of claim 4, wherein each actuator comprises at least one electroactive polymer composite having at least one flexible conductive layer, an electroactive polymer layer, and an ionic gel layer. 9. The device of claim 7, wherein each of the proximal, distal, and intermediate actuators includes a delivery electrode coupled thereto and adapted to deliver energy to the actuators from an external energy source, and wherein the device further includes a return electrode coupled thereto. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the intermediate actuator is adapted to expand axially and contract radially to increase a length of the flexible elongate member. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein the intermediate actuator is adapted to expand radially and contract axially to decrease a length of the flexible elongate member. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the distal portion of the flexible elongate member includes an imaging mechanism disposed therein for viewing a lumen. 13. A method for traversing a lumen of a tubular body part, comprising: positioning an elongate tubular member in a lumen of a tubular body part; and sequentially electrically actuating various electroactive polymer portions of the elongate tubular member to cause proximal and distal electroactive polymer portions of the tubular member to expand in radius while maintaining a single shape to engage the lumen and to cause an intermediate elongate electroactive polymer portion of the tubular member to change in length while decreasing in radius to move the elongate tubular member a distance through the lumen of the tubular body part. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the various portions of the elongate tubular member comprise a plurality of actuating members coupled to the elongate tubular member. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the plurality of actuating members comprise at least two lumen-engaging actuating members disposed around the elongate tubular member that expand radially to engage the lumen when electrically actuated, and at least one lumen-traversing actuating member extending axially along at least a portion of a length of the elongate tubular member that change a length of the elongate tubular member to move the elongate tubular member a distance through the lumen. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein sequentially electrically actuating various portions of the elongate tubular member to move the elongate tubular member a distance through the lumen of a tubular body part comprises: electrically actuating a first lumen-engaging actuating member to cause the first lumen-engaging actuating member to expand radially to engage the lumen; electrically actuating a first lumen-traversing actuating member to cause the first lumen-traversing actuating member to increase a length of the elongate tubular member to move a second lumen-engaging actuating member away from the first lumen-engaging actuating member; electrically actuating the second lumen-engaging actuating member to cause the second lumen-engaging actuating member to expand radially to engage the lumen; electrically de-actuating the first lumen-engaging actuating member to cause the first lumen-engaging actuating member to release the lumen; and electrically de-actuating the first lumen-traversing actuating member to cause the first lumen-traversing actuating member to decrease the length of the flexible elongate member to move the first lumen-engaging actuating member toward the second lumen-engaging actuating member. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein sequentially electrically actuating various portions of the elongate tubular member to move the elongate tubular member a distance through the lumen of a tubular body part comprises: electrically actuating a first lumen-engaging actuating member to cause the first lumen-engaging actuating member to expand radially to engage the lumen; electrically actuating a first lumen-traversing actuating member to cause the first lumen-traversing actuating member to decrease a length of the elongate tubular member to move a second lumen-engaging actuating member toward from the first lumen-engaging actuating member; electrically actuating the second lumen-engaging actuating member to cause the second lumen-engaging actuating member to expand radially to engage the lumen; electrically de-actuating the first lumen-engaging actuating member to cause the first lumen-engaging actuating member to release the lumen; and electrically de-actuating the first lumen-traversing actuating member to cause the first lumen-traversing actuating member to increase the length of the flexible elongate member to move the first lumen-engaging actuating member away from the second lumen-engaging actuating member. 