The present invention relates to a rehabilitation robot and a tutorial learning method for the rehabilitation robot. The rehabilitation robot comprises a robotic device, a rehabilitation mode control unit, and a driving unit. The robotic device comprises at least a motor capable of controlling the joints of the robotic device. The rehabilitation mode control unit further comprises a tutorial learning module capable of enabling the rehabilitation robot to learn a rehabilitation operation of a physiotherapist in a tutorial manner as he/she is operating the rehabilitation robot while registering the rehabilitation operation as an operation mode of the same. When the rehabilitation robot is used for performing a therapeutic session on a patient and a tutorial learning mode is selected for the rehabilitation robot, it is required to have a physiotherapist operate the rehabilitation robot and the same time that the rehabilitation robot will register motor actuation parameters corresponding to the therapeutic session into the tutorial learning module. On the other hand, when an automatic rehabilitation mode is selected, the rehabilitation robot will access the motor actuation parameters registered in the tutorial learning module so as to reproduce the therapeutic session simulating the physiotherapist.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tutorial learning method for a rehabilitation robot, comprising at least steps of: providing a rehabilitation robot, comprising at least a motor capable of controlling the joints of the rehabilitation robot and a tutorial learning module capable of providing tutorial learning in a rehabilitation mode, wherein the tutorial learning module comprises: a data recording unit capable of accessing the motor actuation parameters; and an anti-gravity balance control unit capable of detecting the torsion of the motor; performing a tutorial learning mode capable of registering motor actuation parameters into the tutorial learning module; and performing rehabilitation mode for accessing the motor actuation parameters and transmitting the motor actuation parameters to the motor. 2. The tutorial learning method for a rehabilitation robot as recited in claim 1, wherein the tutorial learning mode comprising at least steps of: starting the tutorial learning mode; activating the anti-gravity balance control unit for performing anti-gravity balance control; laying a limb of a patient to be rehabilitated on the rehabilitation robot; operating the rehabilitation robot to perform rehabilitation; recording the position and the speed at every unit time of the motor in the data recording unit; and completing the tutorial learning mode. 3. The tutorial learning method for a rehabilitation robot as recited in claim 1, wherein the rehabilitation mode comprising at least steps of: starting the rehabilitation mode; laying a limb of a patient to be rehabilitated on the rehabilitation robot; accessing stored data of the position and the speed of the motor to reconstruct the rehabilitation mode; operating the motor to perform rehabilitation; and completing the rehabilitation mode. 4. The tutorial learning method for a rehabilitation robot as recited in claim 1, wherein the rehabilitation robot further comprises a computer capable of operating the rehabilitation robot in the tutorial learning mode or the rehabilitation mode. 5. The tutorial learning method for a rehabilitation robot as recited in claim 1, wherein the motor is a servo motor. 6. A rehabilitation robot, comprising: a robotic device, comprising a motor capable of controlling the joints of the robotic device; a rehabilitation mode control unit, capable of providing and controlling a rehabilitation mode, the rehabilitation mode control unit comprising a rehabilitation mode controller capable of controlling the rehabilitation mode, and a tutorial learning module capable of providing tutorial learning of the rehabilitation mode; a driving unit, capable of driving the motor; and the tutorial learning module, comprising a data recording unit capable of accessing the motor actuation parameters; and an anti-gravity balance control unit capable of detecting the torsion of the motor. 7. The rehabilitation robot as recited in claim 6, wherein the driving unit comprising at least: a servo driver capable of receiving a command signal of the rehabilitation mode controller to control the motor; an encoder capable of detecting the motor and transmitting the detected result to the rehabilitation mode controller. 8. The rehabilitation robot as recited in claim 7, wherein the encoder is capable of detecting the rotation rate, the rotation angle, and the rotation direction of the motor. 9. The rehabilitation robot as recited in claim 6, wherein the rehabilitation mode controller is coupled to a computer to perform data transmission. 10. The rehabilitation robot as recited in claim 9, wherein the rehabilitation mode controller is coupled to the computer by an ISA (industry standard architecture) bus. 11. The rehabilitation robot as recited in claim 6, wherein the motor is a servo motor. 