A method and a device for carrying out a work operation, on a workpiece continually moving forward on a conveying device, by an industrial robot moving along with the workpiece during a common run though a work path are provided. The industrial robot is displaceable along a separate longitudinal guide next to the conveying device. During the common run a base part of the industrial robot is rigidly coupled to a workpiece carrier, and the base part floats relative to a bogie running in the longitudinal guide. The industrial robot includes an exchangeable tool which, at the beginning of the common run through the working path, is a scanner tool connected to a working arm of the industrial robot. A relative position between the work piece and the workpiece carrier is determined from the reference coordinate system of the industrial robot.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for carrying out a work operation on a workpiece continually moving forward on a conveying device by an industrial robot that moves along with the workpiece during a common run through a work path, comprising the acts of: connecting a scanner tool to a working arm of the industrial robot at the beginning of the common run, the scanner tool being exchangeable with other tools; displacing the industrial robot along a separate longitudinal guide next to the conveying device; rigidly coupling a base part of the industrial robot to a workpiece carrier during the common run, the base part being mounted via bearing elements to a bogie running in the longitudinal guide, such that movement of the industrial robot is decoupled from movement of the longitudinal guide; and determining a relative position between the workpiece and the workpiece carrier. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the scanner tool is exchanged for a processing tool after determining the relative position. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the processing tool applies a hollow space conservation to the workpiece. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least one clamping cylinder rigidly couples the base part to the workpiece carrier, and the at least one clamping cylinder clamps the base part to a longitudinal bar of the workpiece carrier. 5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the at least one clamping cylinder is arranged on a feed plate connected to the base part in a displaceable manner, wherein the feed plate is displaced for the rigid coupling with the workpiece carrier in such a manner that a stop element arranged thereon comes into abutment with a corresponding element of the workpiece carrier, before the at least one clamping cylinder is clamped to the longitudinal bar. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein a drive of the bogie is decoupled after the rigid coupling of the base part to the workpiece carrier. 7. A device for carrying out a work operation on a workpiece continually moving forward on a conveying device, the device comprising: an industrial robot that moves along with the workpiece during a common run through a work path and carries out the work operation on the workpiece; wherein the industrial robot is displaceable along a separate longitudinal guide next to the conveying device and, during the common run a base part of the industrial robot is rigidly coupled to a workpiece carrier, wherein bearing elements are provided, via which the base part is mounted to a bogie running in the longitudinal guide, such that movement of the industrial robot is decoupled from movement of the longitudinal guide, and wherein at least two different tools are connectable to a work space of the industrial robot. 8. The device according to claim 7, wherein a scanner device for measuring a relative position between the workpiece carrier and the workpiece is connected to the working arm of the industrial robot. 9. The device according to claim 7, wherein a processing tool for applying a hollow space conservation on the workpiece is connected to the working arm of the industrial robot. 10. The device according to claim 7, further comprising at least one clamping cylinder configured to couple the base part of the industrial robot to a longitudinal bar of the workpiece carrier in a rigid manner. 11. The device according to claim 10, further comprising a feed plate mounted in a displaceable manner with regard to the base part, wherein the clamping cylinder is movable into a required position with regard to the workpiece carrier via the feed plate. 12. The device according to claim 11, further comprising a stop element disposed at the feed plate, wherein the stop element is brought into abutment with a corresponding element of the workpiece carrier for determining the required position. 13. The device according claim 7, further comprising a coupling configured to couple a drive unit of the bogie to a drive wheel of the bogie. 