A self-propelled apparatus for cleaning the submerged bottom surfaces of a pool or tank in a predetermined regular pattern includes a reversible drive means for propelling the apparatus in opposite directions corresponding to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus. A housing is formed by a top wall, depending front and rear walls and depending side walls, where the side walls defining the periphery of the apparatus. At least one projecting pivot member extends from a side wall of the housing, wherein the end of the projecting pivot member serves as a pivot point in contact with a side wall of the pool to change the orientation of the apparatus with respect to the side wall of the pool.
Claims We claim: 1. A self-propelled apparatus for cleaning the submerged bottom surfaces of a pool or tank, the apparatus comprising: (a) reversible drive means for propelling the apparatus in opposite directions corresponding to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus; (b) a housing formed by a top wall, depending front and rear walls and depending side walls, the front, rear and side walls defining the periphery of the apparatus, said front wall being defined with respect to forward directional movement of the apparatus; and (c) at least one stationary projecting pivot member affixed directly to the housing, wherein at least a portion of the at least one projecting pivot member projects outwardly beyond a peripheral side wall of the housing in a direction that is generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus, said projecting pivot member having a free end formed of a frictional material having a high coefficient of friction, said frictional material being stationary with respect to the housing and serving as a pivot when it contacts a side wall of the pool that is adjacent the side wall of the housing from which said free end extends, to thereby pivotally change the orientation of the apparatus. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the at least one stationary projecting pivot member extends beyond each of the side walls of the housing. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein physical contact of the free end of the at least one projecting pivot member with an adjacent side wall of the pool produces a pivotal turning movement to position the front wall of the apparatus generally parallel to the side wall of the pool. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 where the free end of the at least one projecting pivot member comprises a resilient portion having a high coefficient of friction. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said resilient portion has a generally semi-spherical surface. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the at least one stationary projecting pivot member extends foremost beyond each of the side walls of the housing. 7. The apparatus of claim 3 which further comprises supporting means and the at least one projecting pivot member extends from the supporting means. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of supporting wheels coupled to the housing for enabling motion of said apparatus. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one projecting pivot member comprises a plurality of projecting pivot members, where each pivot member extends laterally beyond each of the side walls of the housing and is proximate one of the front or rear walls of the housing. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 in which each of the plurality of the projecting pivot members are attached to the sidewalls of the housing. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 in which the projecting pivot members are mounted outboard of rotating supporting members. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 in which the rotating supporting members are selected from the group consisting of wheels and elongated rolling cylindrical members mounted transversely to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 in which the free end is the outermost surface of the projecting member. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one stationary projecting pivot member affixed to the housing and extending beyond a side wall of the housing is positioned between a pair of wheels for propelling the cleaning apparatus. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one stationary projecting pivot member affixed to the housing and extending beyond a side wall of the housing is positioned at a leading edge of the housing. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one stationary projecting pivot member affixed to the housing and extending beyond a side wall of the housing includes at least one pivot member proximate a front portion of the housing and at least one pivot member proximate a rear portion of the housing. 17. A self-propelled apparatus for cleaning the submerged bottom surfaces of a pool or tank, the apparatus comprising: (a) reversible drive means for propelling the apparatus in opposite directions corresponding to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus; (b) a housing formed by a top wall, depending front and rear walls and depending side walls, the front, rear and side walls defining the periphery of the apparatus, said front wall being defined with respect to forward directional movement of the apparatus; and (c) at least one stationary projecting pivot member that is directly affixed to the housing, wherein at least a portion of the at least one projecting pivot member projects outwardly beyond the periphery of a side wall of the housing in a direction that is generally normal to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus, said projecting pivot member having a free end formed of a material having a high coefficient of friction, said free end being stationary with respect to the housing and serving as a pivot when it contacts a side wall of the pool to thereby rotatably change the orientation of the apparatus to a position in which the front wall of the apparatus faces towards the side wall of the pool contacted by the pivot member. 18. A self-propelled apparatus for cleaning the submerged bottom surfaces of a pool or tank, the apparatus comprising: (a) reversible drive means for propelling the apparatus in opposite directions corresponding to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus; (b) a housing formed by a top wall, depending front and rear walls and depending side walls, the front, rear and side walls defining the periphery of the apparatus, said front wall being defined with respect to forward directional movement of the apparatus; and (c) at least one stationary projecting pivot member affixed directly to the housing and extending outermost beyond a peripheral side wall of the housing, wherein said at least one projecting pivot member extends generally normal to the longitudinal axis of the apparatus, said projecting pivot member having a free end formed of a frictional material having a high coefficient of friction, said frictional material being stationary with respect to the housing and serving as a pivot when it contacts a side wall of the pool that is adjacent the side wall of the housing from which said free end extends, to thereby pivotally change the orientation of the apparatus such that as the apparatus moves, the apparatus is rotated with respect to the side wall of the pool being contacted. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said at least one stationary projecting pivot member is positioned proximate a leading edge of the housing. 20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the longitudinal axis of the apparatus is rotated to a position generally perpendicular to the side wall of the pool being contacted. 