The use of direct-write nanolithography to generate anchored, nanoscale patterns of nucleic acid on different substrates is described, including electrically conductive and insulating substrates. Modification of nucleic acid, including oligonucleotides, with reactive groups such as thiol groups provides for patterning with use of appropriate scanning probe microscopic tips under appropriate conditions. The reactive groups provide for chemisorption or covalent bonding to the substrate surface. The resulting nucleic acid features, which exhibit good stability, can be hybridized with complementary nucleic acids and probed accordingly with use of, for example, nanoparticles functionalized with nucleic acids. Patterning can be controlled by selection of tip treatment, relative humidity, and nucleic acid structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for depositing nucleic acid onto a substrate by direct-write nanolithography comprising the step of: positioning at least one nanoscopic tip relative to a substrate so that the tip and substrate approach each other, and wherein nucleic acid coated on the tip is transferred from the tip to the substrate to generate a stable nucleic acid nanoscale pattern on the substrate which is hybridizable with complementary nucleic acid, wherein the tip is treated to improve adhesion of the nucleic acid to the tip, wherein the nucleic acid which is coated on the tip is part of an ink comprising water, aprotic solvent, nucleic acid, inorganic salt, and surfactant; and wherein the transferring is carried out at a relative humidity sufficiently high so that the transfer occurs. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nanoscopic tip is a scanning probe microscopic tip. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nanoscopic tip is an atomic force microscopic tip. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the scanning probe microscopic tip is a hollow tip. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the tip is modified to have a positive charge. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the tip is modified to have a positive charge of amino groups. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the tip is an atomic force microscope tip which has been coated with a solution comprising nucleic acid and salt. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid comprises deoxyribose nucleic acid. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is single-strand nucleic acid. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid comprises functional groups to provide for chemisorption or covalent bonding to the substrate. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is modified with a spacer which separates the nucleic acid from a functional group which provides for chemisorption or covalent bonding to the substrate. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is an oligonucleotide. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the substrate is an electrical conductor. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein the substrate is an electrical insulator. 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the transfer is carried out at relative humidity of at least about 25%. 16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the transfer is carried out at relative humidity of about 40% to 100%. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein the complementary nucleic acid is part of a probe. 18. The method according to claim 1, wherein the complementary nucleic acid is part of a linking strand, wherein the linking strand links the nucleic acid on the substrate to a probe. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pattern of nucleic acid has a lateral dimension of about 500 nm or less. 20. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pattern of nucleic acid has a lateral dimension of about 200 nm or less. 21. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pattern of nucleic acid has a lateral dimension of about 10 nm to about 100 nm. 22. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pattern of nucleic acid has height of about 100 nm or less. 23. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pattern of nucleic acid is a dot. 24. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pattern of nucleic acid is a line. 25. The method according to claim 1, wherein after transfer the substrate is passivated in non-patterned areas. 26. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nanoscopic tip is an atomic microscope tip, the nucleic acid is an oligonucleotide which comprises functional groups to provide for chemisorption or covalent bonding to the substrate, and wherein the nucleic acid pattern is a dot or line having, respectively, a dot diameter or a line width of about 500 nm or less. 27. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nanoscopic tip is an atomic microscope tip, the nucleic acid is an oligonucleotide which comprises functional groups to provide for chemisorption or covalent bonding to the substrate, the nucleic acid pattern is a dot or line having, respectively, a dot diameter or a line width of about 500 nm or less, and, the transfer is carried out at relative humidity of about 25% to about 50%. 28. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nanoscopic tip is an atomic microscope tip, the nucleic acid is an oligonucleotide which comprises functional groups to provide for chemisorption or covalent bonding to the substrate, the nucleic acid pattern is a dot or line having, respectively, a dot diameter or a line width of about 500 nm or less, the application is carried out at relative humidity of at least about 25%, and the tip is modified to have a positively charged surface. 29. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nanoscopic tip is an atomic microscope tip or a hollow tip, the nucleic acid is a deoxyribose single stranded nucleic acid, the nucleic acid pattern is a dot or line having, respectively, a dot diameter or a line width of about 10 nm to about 100 nm, and wherein the substrate is also passivated after transfer in the non-patterned area. 