The present invention relates to novel sequences for use in detection, diagnosis and treatment of cancers, especially lymphomas. The invention provides cancer-associated (CA) polynucleotide sequences whose expression is associated with cancer. The present invention provides CA polypeptides associated with cancer that are present on the cell surface and present novel therapeutic targets against cancer. The present invention further provides diagnostic compositions and methods for the detection of cancer. The present invention provides monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies specific for the CA polypeptides. The present invention also provides diagnostic tools and therapeutic compositions and methods for screening, prevention and treatment of cancer.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for diagnosing colon, stomach or prostate cancer comprising: a) determining the expression level of a nucleic acid consisting of the entire nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 69, or consisting of a full complement thereof, in a sample comprising a first tissue type of a first individual; and b) comparing said level of said nucleic acid in (a) to: (1) the level of the nucleic acid in a second sample, said second sample comprising a normal tissue type from said first individual, or (2) the level of the nucleic acid in a third sample, said third sample comprising a normal tissue type from a second unaffected individual; wherein an increase of at least 50% between the level of the nucleic acid in (a) and the level of the nucleic acid in the second sample or the third sample indicates that the first individual has cancer. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the difference between the level of the nucleic acid in (a) and the level of the nucleic acid in the second or the third sample is at least 100%. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the difference between the level of the nucleic acid in (a) and the level of the nucleic acid in the second or the third sample is at least 150%. 4. A method for diagnosing colon, stomach or prostate cancer comprising comparing a level of cytokine receptor 2 A mRNA in a patient sample comprising colon, breast or prostate tissue to the level of the cytokine receptor 2 A mRNA in a normal control, wherein the cytokine receptor 2 A mRNA consists of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:69; wherein an increase of at least 50% from the level in the patient sample relative to the normal control indicates that the patient has or is predisposed to colon, stomach or prostate cancer. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein an increase of at least 100% from the level of the cytokine receptor 2 A mRNA in the patient sample relative to the normal control indicates that the patient has or is predisposed to colon, stomach or prostate cancer. 6. A method for diagnosing colon, stomach or prostate cancer comprising detecting differential expression of the expression product of the nucleotide sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:69 in a patient sample, wherein evidence of differential expression of the expression product indicates that the patient has colon, stomach or prostate cancer. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein differential expression is detected by measuring the level of the expression product. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein the level of the expression product in the patient sample is compared to a control. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the control comprises normal colon, stomach or prostate tissue. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the level of the expression product in the patient sample is increased at least 200% relative to the control. 