Provided is a printhead assembly which includes a printhead module having a plurality of modular printhead tiles each having a plurality of micro-electromechanical nozzle assemblies for printing on a printing medium. The assembly also includes a number of printhead controller integrated circuits for controlling the printhead tiles, as well as a casing having an integral heatsink arrangement for the printhead controller integrated circuits. The casing further includes a ducting assembly for ducting ink to the printhead tiles and busbars for interfacing the printhead controller integrated circuits with a controller of a printer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: a printhead module having a plurality of modular printhead tiles each having a plurality of micro-electromechanical nozzle assemblies for printing on a printing medium; a number of printhead controller integrated circuits for controlling the printhead tiles; and a casing having an integral heatsink arrangement for the printhead controller integrated circuits, the casing also having a ducting assembly for ducting ink to the printhead tiles and busbars for interfacing the printhead controller integrated circuits with a controller of a printer. 2. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, in which the ducting assembly has a curable resin forming a seal between the ducting assembly and the printhead tiles, so that the printhead assembly is usable for page width printing applications. 3. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein the ducting assembly includes a laminated stack. 4. The printhead assembly of claim 3, wherein each layer of the stack has a number of apertures which, when the layers are stacked, provides ducts whereby ink can flow to the nozzle assemblies. 5. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein the casing has an external ink interface for interfacing with an ink reservoir of a printer. 6. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein each modular printhead tile has male and female end portions shaped and configured to receive a respective end portion of another printhead tile in a complementary manner. 7. The printhead assembly of claim 6, wherein a curable resin serves as a seal between mated male and female end portions. 8. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein the casing is of a material which minimizes electromagnetic interference with the control means. 