Described herein is a mobile data storage magazine for interacting with a docking station. The magazine can include a magazine frame containing a plurality of operatively interconnected disk drives, a first contact element associated with the magazine frame capable of conducting electrical power to at least one of the plurality of disk drives when engaged with a second contact element associated with the docking station wherein the first and second contact elements are adapted to cooperate in a non male/female relationship. The magazine can further comprise a first communication element capable of conducting data between at least one of the plurality of disk drives and the docking station when the first communication element is operatively linked to a second communication element associated with the docking station.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An insertion and ejection device associated with a magazine data storage element drive, said magazine data storage element drive adapted to cooperate with a mobile data storage magazine to at least provide power and communication to said mobile data storage magazine via a drive-magazine connector associated with said magazine data storage element drive, said insertion and ejection device comprising: a first structure capable of mechanically linking to said mobile data storage magazine; a motor mounted on said magazine data storage element drive and adapted to move said mobile data storage magazine into an engaging position with said drive-magazine connector via said first structure wherein said mobile data storage magazine supports a plurality of disk drives which become operatively connected through said drive-magazine connector when said mobile data storage magazine is moved into the engaging position. 2. The insertion and ejection device of claim 1 wherein said first structure is adapted to link with said mobile data storage magazine after said mobile data storage magazine is received by an accommodating opening associated with said magazine data storage element drive. 3. The insertion and ejection device of claim 2 wherein said motor is adapted to pull said mobile data storage magazine into said magazine data storage element drive via said first structure until said mobile data storage magazine is at least electrically engaged with said drive-magazine connector. 4. The insertion and ejection device of claim 3 wherein said motor is further adapted to eject said mobile data storage magazine from said magazine data storage element drive via said first structure until said mobile data storage magazine is at least electrically disengaged with said drive-magazine connector. 5. The insertion and ejection device of claim 2 wherein said first structure is a magazine engagement hook device adapted to engage an accommodating notch associated with said mobile data storage magazine. 6. The insertion and ejection device of claim 1 wherein said motor moves said mobile data storage magazine via a lead screw mechanism. 7. The insertion and ejection device of claim 1 further comprising a restraining device adapted to restrain said mobile data storage magazine in said engaged position with said drive-magazine connector. 8. The insertion and ejection device of claim 7 wherein said drive-magazine connector provides said power and said communication to said mobile data storage magazine via contacts that cooperate in a non male and female relationship. 9. The insertion and ejection device of claim 8 wherein said mobile data storage magazine is air cooled by ventilation openings in a magazine cover that substantially encases said mobile data storage magazine. 10. The insertion and ejection device of claim 9 wherein said drive-magazine connector is adapted to engage magazine-drive connector associated with said mobile data storage magazine, said magazine-drive connector is disposed in an accommodating opening in said magazine cover. 11. A system for automatically engaging a magazine data storage element contact with a magazine data storage element drive contact, said system comprising: a first contact element disposed on a first surface of said magazine data storage element; a second contact element disposed on a second surface of said magazine data storage element drive, wherein said first contact element is complementary to said second contact element and wherein each of said contact elements are selected from groups consisting of axially cooperating contacts; a means for providing mechanical force for moving and guiding said magazine data storage element for mechanically bringing said first and said second surfaces together axially, after said magazine data storage element is received by an accommodating opening in said magazine data storage element drive, such that said contact elements cooperate to electrically link said magazine data storage element with said magazine data storage element drive when engaged, said means for providing the mechanical force and guiding being mounted on said magazine data storage element drive, and said magazine data storage element supports a plurality of disk drives which become operatively connected through said contact elements to said magazine data storage element drive. 