An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in sample vessels. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a sample, incubating the sample, preforming an analyte isolation procedure, ascertaining the presence of a target analyte, and analyzing the amount of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the sample vessels from one station to the next. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte, and, in one embodiment, a method for real-time monitoring of the amplification process.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for processing the contents of multiple reaction receptacles to quantitatively determine the amount of a first target nucleic acid present in a first portion of the reaction receptacles and to qualitatively determine the presence or absence of a second target nucleic acid present in a second portion of the reaction receptacles, said method comprising performing in an analyzer the automated steps of: a) successively providing a plurality of reaction receptacles to a first incubator having a housing defining a temperature-controlled chamber, said housing including one or more closable receptacle access openings for moving the reaction receptacles into and out of said first incubator, each of the reaction receptacles being provided with amplification reagents sufficient to amplify a first or second target sequence contained within a corresponding first or second target nucleic acid under the temperature conditions of said first incubator, wherein successively providing the plurality of reaction receptacles to said first incubator comprises, for each of the reaction receptacles provided, opening one of said receptacle access openings and moving the reaction receptacle through the opened receptacle access opening and into said first incubator and then closing the receptacle access opening, thereby permitting ambient light from within the analyzer to enter the temperature-controlled chamber of the first incubator through the opened receptacle access opening; b) while performing step a), i) successively and periodically moving reaction receptacles of the first portion of said reaction receptacles within said temperature-controlled chamber of said first incubator into operative proximity to a signal measuring device constructed and arranged to measure the amount of a signal emitted by the contents of a reaction receptacle placed in operative proximity to said signal measuring device, wherein detection reagents sufficient to detect a first amplification product containing said first target sequence or its complement have been provided to each reaction receptacle of the first portion of said reaction receptacles; and ii) measuring the amount of signal associated with the presence of said first amplification product in each reaction receptacle of the first portion of said reaction receptacles moved into operative proximity to said signal measuring device, wherein reaction receptacles of the first portion of said reaction receptacles are moved into operative proximity to said signal measuring device before being removed from said first incubator; c) using a microprocessor to quantify the amount of said first target nucleic acid present in each reaction receptacle of the first portion of the reaction receptacles based upon the measurements obtained in step b); d) while performing steps a) and b), i) successively removing reaction receptacles of the second portion of said reaction receptacles from said first incubator and successively moving each removed reaction receptacle of the second portion of said reaction receptacles into operative proximity to a signal detecting device constructed and arranged to detect the presence of a signal emitted by the contents of a reaction receptacle placed in operative proximity to said signal detecting device, wherein detection reagents sufficient to detect a second amplification product containing said second target sequence or its complement have been provided to each reaction receptacle of the second portion of said reaction receptacles, wherein successively removing the reaction receptacles of the second portion of said reaction receptacles from said first incubator comprises, for each reaction receptacle removed from said first incubator, opening one of said receptacle access openings and moving the reaction receptacle through the opened receptacle access opening and out of said first incubator and then closing the receptacle access opening, thereby permitting ambient light from within the analyzer to enter the temperature-controlled chamber of the first incubator through the opened receptacle access opening; and ii) detecting a signal associated with the presence of said second amplification product in each reaction receptacle of the second portion of said reaction receptacles moved into operative proximity to said signal detecting device; and e) using a microprocessor to determine the presence or absence of said second target nucleic acid in each reaction receptacle of the second portion of said reaction receptacles based upon the signals detected in step d), wherein said microprocessor is not used to quantify the amount of said second target nucleic acid present in the reaction receptacles of the second portion of said reaction receptacles based upon the signals detected in step d). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reaction receptacles are provided to said first incubator using an automated reaction receptacle transport system. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said transport system includes a first, rotatable transport mechanism for providing reaction receptacles to said first incubator. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said transport system includes a second, rotatable transport mechanism for removing reaction receptacles from said first incubator. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein said transport system moves the reaction receptacles of the second portion of said reaction receptacles from said first incubator into operative proximity to said signal detecting device in step d). 6. The method of claim 5 further comprising the automated step of moving the reaction receptacles of the second portion of said reaction receptacles from said first incubator to a second incubator having a housing defining a temperature-controlled chamber wherein said detection reagents are provided to the reaction receptacles of the second portion of said reaction receptacles under temperature conditions permitting a probe present in said detection reagents to detectably hybridize to said second target sequence or its complement. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said housing of said second incubator includes one or more doors for receiving and removing reaction receptacles from said second incubator. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said second incubator includes a rotatable reaction receptacle carrier for receiving and moving reaction receptacles within said second incubator. 9. The method of claim 6 further comprising the automated step of moving the reaction receptacles of the second portion of said reaction receptacles from said second incubator into operative proximity to said signal detecting device. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said signal detecting device is a luminometer and said probe is labeled with a chemiluminescent label. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said first incubator includes a rotatable reaction receptacle carrier for receiving and moving reaction receptacles within said first incubator. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said amplification reagents are provided to the reaction receptacles after the reaction receptacles have been provided to said first incubator. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said detection reagents are provided to the reaction receptacles of the first portion of said reaction receptacles after the reaction receptacles of the first portion of said reaction receptacles are provided to said first incubator. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said detection reagents are provided to the reaction receptacles of the second portion of said reaction receptacles after being removed from said first incubator. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said amplification reagents provided to the reaction receptacles of the first portion of said reaction receptacles in step a) include a primer, nucleoside triphosphates, and a nucleic acid polymerase capable of extending the 3' end of said primer hybridized to said first target nucleic acid under the temperature conditions of said first incubator, and wherein said amplification reagents provided to the reaction receptacles of the second portion of said reaction receptacles in step a) include a primer, nucleoside triphosphates, and a nucleic acid polymerase capable of extending the 3' end of said primer hybridized to said second target nucleic acid under the temperature conditions of said first incubator. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the temperature conditions are isothermal. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said detection reagents for detecting said first amplification product include a self-hybridizing probe that detectably hybridizes to said first target sequence or its complement under the temperature conditions of said first incubator. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said probe is a molecular beacon or a molecular torch and includes an interacting label pair. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said label pair includes a fluorophore and a quencher. 20. The method of claim 1 further comprising simultaneously measuring said signal from each of a plurality of the reaction receptacles of the first portion of said reaction receptacles. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein, in step b), the reaction receptacles of the first portion of said reaction receptacles are successively and periodically moved into operative proximity to a plurality of spaced-apart signal measuring devices, each signal measuring device being a fluorescent signal detection device operatively associated with said first incubator. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising moving said fluorescent signal detection devices relative to said first incubator to sequentially move each fluorescent signal detection device into operative proximity to a different receptacle. 23. The method of claim 1 further comprising simultaneously measuring multiple signals in the reaction receptacles of the first portion of said reaction receptacles, each of said multiple signals being associated with a different amplification product. 24. The method of claim 1 further comprising the automated step of exposing sample material present in each of the reaction receptacles to reagents and conditions sufficient to remove amplification inhibitors from the reaction receptacles prior to step a). 25. The method of claim 24, wherein said exposing step includes: providing a solid support material to each of the reaction receptacles, said solid support material being capable of binding at least one of said first and second target nucleic acids; isolating said solid support material within each of the reaction receptacles; removing at least a portion of said sample material from each of the reaction receptacles; and washing said solid support material with a wash solution. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said solid support material is a magnetically responsive particle and said isolating step is performed with one or more magnets being positioned adjacent each of the reaction receptacles. 27. The method of claim 24 further comprising transporting the reaction receptacles to said first incubator using an automated reaction receptacle transport system after said exposing step. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said transport system comprises a rotatable transport mechanism. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the reaction receptacles is one of a plurality of integrally formed reaction receptacles. 30. The method of claim 25, wherein the steps of the method are performed concurrently. 31. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of reading machine-readable data associated with each reaction receptacle of a plurality of reaction receptacles, and associating the machine-readable data associated with each receptacle with the first portion of said reaction receptacles or the second portion of said reaction receptacles. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the reading step comprises reading a barcode label associated with each reaction receptacle. 