An apparatus and method of preparing and coating a large structure such as a ship's hull while in a dry dock wherein a plurality of spray guns disposed in an array are positioned by a robotic arm in a spaced relationship along the surface to be treated so that their spray patterns overlap. The array of spray guns is traversed downwardly a thus painting a strip whereupon the spray guns are secured, move horizontally and then activated to be moved upwardly until another strip adjacent to and overlapping the first strip is painted. These steps are repeated until the surface area is substantially entirely painted. A shroud is provided for collecting paint oversprays and other excess paint is mounted in the array assemblage. An auxiliary spray gun may be positioned and its spray pattern adjusted to apply paint to areas which were missed by the original spray pattern emanating from the array of spray guns. Travel of the system along the work surface is accomplished by a reference track, which may be virtual or actual along which an unmanned platform travels. An articulated computer controlled arm is carried by the unmanned platform which in turn carries the assemblage. Other tools may be selectively operatively connected to the arm for cleaning the hull before a coating is applied thereto.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for the automated treatment of the surface of a large structure which comprises: an unmanned computer controlled mobile platform adapted to move along a flexible and relative line adjacent to said structure, wherein the movement of said unmanned computer controlled mobile platform along said surface adjacent said large structure is dynamic and substantially continuous, and is not along a track; computer processor means for processing a plurality of spatial data of said unmanned computer controlled mobile platform in relation to a surface of a large structure being treated and flexibly adapting the course of said unmanned computer controlled mobile platform relative to said surface for treatment thereof and moving said unmanned computer controlled mobile platform along said flexible and relative line; an articulated computer controlled arm mounted on said platform with the extremity of said arm terminating in a wrist mechanism means onto which different surface treatment or measurement tools may be selectively mounted; and sensors operatively associated with each said tool so that the relationship of each said tool's disposition with regard to said surface is computer controlled. 2. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said tool comprises an application device for applying a coating to said surface. 3. An apparatus in accordance with claim 2, wherein said application device comprises an array of a plurality of coating application guns. 4. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3, comprising at least two coating application guns in said array, each of said guns applying paint to be received by said surface in overlapping patterns. 5. An apparatus in accordance with claim 4, wherein said patterns overlap by about 50%. 6. An apparatus in accordance with claim 4, wherein the configuration of sprayed paint from each said gun is triangular as seen in a direction parallel to said surface. 7. An apparatus in accordance with claim 4, wherein each said configuration is fan shaped. 8. An apparatus in accordance with claim 4, wherein one of said guns is controlled independently of the other said guns to perform a touch-up function. 9. An apparatus in accordance with claim 4, wherein one of said guns is independently controllable relative to the other of said guns to perform an auxiliary function. 10. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said line comprises a computer recognizable virtual line derived from GPS. 11. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said line is a computer recognizable virtual line derived from CAD file information. 12. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said line is a computer recognizable virtual line derived from digital imaging. 13. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said line is a computer recognizable temporary line on the surface over which said mobile platform moves. 14. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein said line is a computer recognizable line on the surface over which said mobile platform moves. 15. An apparatus in accordance with claim 4, wherein at least one of said tools comprises a plurality of coating application guns which have spray patterns that are contained in substantially the same horizontal plane with deviation therefrom only as necessary to avoid collisions of sprayed paint. 16. An apparatus in accordance with claim 3, wherein at least one of said guns is a coating application gun which produces a round shape where it is received by said surface. 17. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein at least one of said tools comprises an array of coating application guns which produce spray patterns that overlap for about 50% of their widths. 18. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein at least one of said tools comprises an array of coating application guns, said array being computer controlled to move relative to said surface at substantially a uniform speed and to remain at substantially the same distance from said surface so that paint received on said surface from said array of guns has a substantially uniform thickness. 19. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein at least one of the tools comprises a surface cleaning tool which removes existing coatings, corrosion and rust and other materials adhering to said surface from said surface, such said tool comprising a shroud which substantially prevents said materials adhering to said surface and substances used in the cleaning process from escaping into the nearby atmosphere. 20. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein at least one of said tools comprises a plurality of coating application guns that spray coating material to said surface, and a shroud for said guns which is maintained in a spaced relationship from said surface and substantially prevents coating material from escaping from said shroud into the surrounding atmosphere, vacuum producing means operatively connected to said shroud for removing coating material which does not adhere to said surface to a location away from said shroud. 21. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, which comprises at least one tool having further sensors operatively associated therewith for measuring the thickness of a coating in real time as it is being applied to said surface and paint thickness adjustment means which, on the basis of data received from said further sensors, controls in real time the thickness of coating material being applied to said surface. 22. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein at least one of said tools which applies a coating to said surface includes another sensor which recognizes the wet edge of a previously applied coating by said tool and provides data to a computer system which controls that apparatus so that the further application of coating by such tool overlaps said previous coating to maximize the uniformity of the application of coating to said surface by computer controlling such tool's motion so that the overlap between said previously applied coating and said coating being applied thereafter by said tool overlap an amount that maximizes the uniformity of thickness of said coating applied to said surface. 23. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein at least one of said tools for cleaning said surface and preparation to receive coating material is provided with a vacuum shroud which prevents the cleaning material and material cleaned thereby from escaping into the nearby atmosphere. 24. An apparatus in accordance with claim 23, wherein said cleaning material comprises ultra-high water jets blasted against said surface. 25. An apparatus in accordance with claim 23, wherein said cleaning material comprises the combination of water and an abrasive media. 26. An apparatus in accordance with claim 23, wherein said cleaning material comprises an abrasive material which is blasted against said surface. 27. An apparatus in accordance with claim 23, wherein said cleaning material comprises sponge jet blasting. 28. An apparatus in accordance with claim 23, wherein said cleaning is accomplished with laser coating ablation. 29. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, wherein at least one of said tools is a surface cleaning tool, said surface preparation tool being operatively associated with another sensor that measures the profile of said surface and the cleanliness of said surface. 30. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, comprising surface measurement devices which measure the integrity of said surface by means consisting of an audio gauge measurement or a digital camera or laser mapping means or ultrasonic coating thickness measurement means or any combination thereof. 31. An apparatus in accordance with claim 1, which comprises a surface measurement device which measures the integrity of said surface. 32. An apparatus for the automated treatment of the exterior of large outdoor structures which comprises: an unmanned mobile platform adapted to move along a flexible and relative line adjacent to a large outdoor structure, wherein the movement of said unmanned mobile platform along the exterior of said large outdoor structure along said flexible and relative line is dynamic and substantially continuous, and is not along a track; computer processor means for processing a plurality of spatial data of said unmanned computer controlled mobile platform in relation to an exterior of a large outdoor structure being treated and flexibly adapting the course of said unmanned mobile platform relative to said exterior for treatment thereof and moving said unmanned mobile platform along said flexible and relative line; an articulated computer controlled arm mounted on said platform; a shrouded assemblage unit carried by said arm, said unit operatively associated with sensors for controlling the distance and orientation of said unit from said surface via control of said articulated arm; and a surface treatment member in said unit for cleaning or coating said surface, said unit being computer controlled for automated movement so that said articulated arm retains said surface treatment member parallel to and spaced away from said surface. 33. An apparatus in accordance with claim 32, wherein said assemblage unit comprises an array of a plurality of paint spray guns. 34. An apparatus in accordance with claim 33, wherein at least two paint spray guns in said array deliver a fan shaped paint spray and at least one of said guns performs a touch-up function. 35. An apparatus in accordance with claim 32, wherein said line is a computer recognizable virtual line derived from GPS. 36. An apparatus in accordance with claim 32, wherein said array comprises a plurality of paint spray guns wherein their spray patterns are disposed in substantially the same horizontal plane. 37. An apparatus in accordance with claim 32, wherein said spray patterns of adjacent spray guns in said array are fan shaped and overlapped for about 50% of their widths. 38. An apparatus in accordance with claim 37, wherein said array of paint spray guns is moved relative to said surface at a substantially uniform speed whereby the paint received on said surface has substantially uniform thickness. 39. An apparatus for the automated selected treatment of the surface of large structures comprising: a computer control system, an unmanned computer controlled mobile platform adapted to move along a flexible and relative line adjacent to a large structure, an articulated computer controlled arm mounted on said platform with the further extremity of said arm terminating in a wrist mechanism onto which selected surface treatment and measurement tools are adapted to be mounted, wherein the movement of said unmanned computer controlled mobile platform along a surface of said large structure along said flexible and relative line is dynamic and substantially continuous, and is not along a track, said computer control system including computer processor means for processing a plurality of spatial data of said unmanned computer controlled mobile platform in relation to a surface of a large structure being treated and flexibly adapting the course of said unmanned computer controlled mobile platform relative to said surface for treatment thereof and moving said unmanned computer controlled mobile platform along said flexible and relative line; a plurality of sensors operatively associated with said computer control system whereby said sensors collect data utilized by said surface treatment and measurement tools for said computer control system to interchange and operate said tools to perform functions related to the automated treatment of large structures including the cleaning of said structure and the coating of same after it has been cleaned. 40. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, wherein said surface treatment tools include a coatings application apparatus comprising an array of a plurality of coatings application guns. 41. An apparatus in accordance with claim 40, wherein at least two of said coatings application guns in said array deliver a round shaped coating pattern on the surface of said structure. 42. An apparatus in accordance with claim 40, wherein at least two of said coatings applications formed provide a spray which is fan shaped. 43. An apparatus in accordance with claim 40, wherein at least one of said guns functions to perform an auxiliary or touch-up function. 44. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, wherein said line is a computer recognizable virtual line derived from GPS. 45. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, wherein said line is a computer recognizable virtual line derived from CAD file information. 46. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, wherein said line is a computer recognizable virtual line derived from digital imaging. 47. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, wherein said line is a computer recognizable non-permanent line affixed to the surface over which said mobile platform moves. 48. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, wherein said line is a computer recognizable permanent line affixed to the surface over which said mobile platform moves. 49. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, wherein said line is a computer recognizable line consisting of a virtual line derived from GPS or a virtual line derived from CAD file information or a computer recognizable virtual line derived from digital imaging or a temporary line on the surface to which said mobile platform moves or a permanent line on said surface over which said mobile platform moves or any combination thereof. 50. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, wherein said array comprises a plurality of coating application guns wherein their spray patterns are close together and substantially the same horizontal plane without substantial colliding of the coating materials being sprayed by said guns. 51. An apparatus in accordance with claim 50, wherein the spray patterns of said coatings application guns overlap for about 50% of their widths. 52. An apparatus in accordance with claim 40, wherein said array of coatings application guns are moved relative to said surface at a substantially uniform speed and at a distance from the surface of the structure being coated whereby the coating received by said surface has a substantially uniform thickness. 53. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, wherein one of said tools is a tool for cleaning the surface of said structure by ultra high pressure jet blasting. 54. An apparatus in accordance with claim 51, wherein said tool for ultra high pressure blasting comprises a shroud for preventing material removed from said structure by said tool from polluting the nearby atmosphere and said material being filtered from said water and subjected to biological oxidation. 55. An apparatus in accordance with claim 52, wherein said water after said filtration is recirculated for further use in said ultra high pressure cleaning system. 56. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, which includes a shroud connected to a vacuum system for substantially preventing the escape of overspray into the nearby atmosphere. 57. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, wherein said structure is a ship. 58. An apparatus in accordance with claim 39, wherein said tools consist of an airless spray coating assemblage, an air assisted airless coating assemblage, an air spray coating assemblage, a dry particulate coating spray assemblage including means for heating and melting the coating in place, a metallic flame spray assemblage, an electrostatic coating assemblage or a tool combining the functions of the foregoing tools, and further said tool consists of an ultra high water spray, an abrasive blasting tool, a fiber blasting media tool impregnated with alumina or a tool which combines in one tool the aforesaid cleaning functions. 59. An apparatus for automated treatment of a hull surface of a large ship comprising: an automated mobile device without a person positioned within said device, said automated mobile device moving pursuant to computer-control along a flexible line relative to said large ship and not along a track adjacent thereto, said movement of said automated mobile device being dynamic and substantially continuous along said hull surface; an articulated arm connected to said mobile device; a tool affixed at a terminal end of said arm; and at least one sensor connected to said tool, whereby the position of said tool relative to said hull surface is determined. 