One aspect of the disclosure involves modifying a display marker at least partially by actuating an at least one positional display element. Another aspect of the disclosure involves modifying an effective positioning of at least one display marker relative to a supporting structure.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method comprising: at least partially embedding at least one positional display element in a roadway; modifying an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of at least one lane relative to the roadway at least partially by actuating the at least one positional display element; and displacing a centerline of the at least one lane relative to the roadway as a result of modifying the effective lateral position of the at least one display marker. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of at least one lane relative to the roadway at least partially by actuating the at least one positional display element comprises: modifying the effective lateral position of the an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of the at least one lane relative to the roadway at least partially based on at least one roadway condition. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of at least one lane relative to the roadway at least partially by actuating the at least one positional display element comprises: modifying the effective lateral position of the an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of the at least one lane relative to the roadway based at least in part on a regular roadway operation. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of at least one lane relative to the roadway at least partially by actuating the at least one positional display element comprises: modifying the effective lateral position of the an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of the at least one lane relative to the roadway to provide for a high-occupancy vehicle lane. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of at least one lane relative to the roadway at least partially by actuating the at least one positional display element comprises: modifying the effective lateral position of the an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of the at least one lane relative to the roadway to reduce wear on a roadway. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of at least one lane relative to the roadway at least partially by actuating the at least one positional display element comprises: modifying the effective lateral position of the an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of the at least one lane relative to the roadway to merge the at least one lane into at least one other lane. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of at least one lane relative to the roadway at least partially by actuating the at least one positional display element comprises: modifying the effective lateral position of the an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of the at least one lane relative to the roadway to provide a change of a width of the at least one lane of the roadway. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of at least one lane relative to the roadway at least partially by actuating the at least one positional display element comprises: modifying the effective lateral position of the an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of the at least one lane relative to the roadway to provide a change of a course of the at least one lane of the roadway. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of at least one lane relative to the roadway at least partially by actuating the at least one positional display element comprises: modifying the effective lateral position of the an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of the at least one lane relative to the roadway, wherein the at least one display marker is at least partially situated on a roadway, the roadway being at least partially formed from at least one of a group including dirt, gravel, grass, pavement, and/or concrete. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: at least partially laying the at least one positional display element upon the roadway. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein modifying an effective lateral position of at least one display marker comprises: modifying the an effective lateral position of at least one display marker to provide information to a driver of a vehicle upon the roadway. 12. A method, comprising: at least partially incorporating into a roadbed material an at least one positional display element in a roadway; modifying an effective lateral position of at least one display marker of at least one lane relative to the roadway at least partially by actuating the at least one positional display element; and displacing a centerline of the at least one lane relative to the roadway as a result of modifying the effective lateral position of the at least one display marker. 