An automated staining system and a reagent container designed for use with the automated staining apparatus. The reagent container includes a reagent containment section capable of containing a volume of a reagent. The reagent containment section includes an upper wall and a base wall that are spaced apart along an axis. The base wall includes a well having a nadir that is aligned axially with an access opening in the upper wall so that a reagent probe entering the opening parallel to said axis will travel toward the nadir. In another aspect of the invention, the reagent container may include a two-dimensional data element containing reagent information. The staining apparatus may include one removable drawer for holding reagent containers and another removable drawer holding slides.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of operating an autostainer for staining a tissue specimen according to a staining protocol, comprising: providing a remote computer system; establishing a communications link between an autostainer control system and the remote computer system; generating a staining record on the autostainer control system, the staining record including the staining protocol for the tissue specimen; and exporting the staining record from the autostainer control system to the remote computer system. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the staining record includes patient information associated with the tissue specimen and the step of exporting further includes providing the patient information from the autostainer control system to the remote computer system. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising staining the tissue specimen according to the staining protocol. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising associating the exported staining record with a patient record on the remote computer system. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising storing the staining record on the remote computer system. 6. A method for staining a tissue specimen in an autostainer, the method comprising: providing a database having a staining protocol on a remote computer system; establishing a communications link between an autostainer control system and the remote computer system; and importing the staining protocol from the remote computer system to the autostainer control system over the communications link; importing patient information from the remote computer system to the autostainer control system; associating the imported patient information with the staining protocol; and staining the tissue specimen according to the imported staining protocol. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising, before the step of staining, utilizing the imported staining protocol for programming the autostainer control system to execute a staining run. 8. The method of claim 6 further comprising storing the staining protocol on the remote computer for use by the autostainer control system. 