A surgical instrument for use with a robotic surgical system is described. The instrument includes an elongate shaft having a proximal end and a distal end. An electrically live wrist member is disposed at the distal end of the shaft. An electrocautery end effector is mounted to the wrist member. An interface is disposed at the proximal end of the shaft. The interface is removably connectable to the robotic surgical system. A conductor extends from the interface to the end effector so as to deliver electrical energy to tissue engaged by the end effector. A tip cover is disposed over the wrist member so that electrical current can only be conducted to tissues through the exposed end effector (e.g., to promote blood coagulation during usage) and not to other parts of the patient's body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical instrument for use with a robotic surgical system, the instrument comprising: an elongate shaft having a proximal end and a distal end; an electrically conductive wrist member having proximal and distal devices disposed at the distal end of the shaft; an electrocautery end effector mounted to the wrist member; an interface disposed at the proximal end of the shaft, the interface removably connectable to the robotic surgical system; a conductor extending from the interface and terminating at the proximal clevis of the electrically conductive wrist member so that the wrist member is the electrical connection between the conductor and the end effector; and at least one insulation material disposed over the wrist member so as to inhibit conduction of electrical current from the electrically live wrist member except to tissue engaged by the end effector. 2. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the wrist member is operational in a fluid filled environment. 3. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the wrist member and the end effector are at the same electrical potential. 4. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the wrist member comprises metal material. 5. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the wrist member provides at least one degree of freedom to the end effector relative to the shaft. 6. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the wrist member provides at least two degrees of freedom to the end effector relative to the shaft. 7. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the wrist member has a small overall outer diameter to allow for insulation. 8. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the insulation material comprises a cover, the cover and shaft having the same diameter. 9. The instrument of claim 8, wherein the cover is removable from the wrist member. 10. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the elongate shaft defines an internal longitudinally extending passage, wherein at least one actuation element extends within the passage from the interface for pivotally moving the wrist member or end effector. 11. The instrument of claim 10, further comprising a tubing extending along a length of the passage and over the at least one actuation element. 12. The instrument of claim 11, further comprising an electrical break along a length of the tubing. 13. The instrument of claim 12, wherein the electrical break comprises a liquid crystal polymer cable. 14. The instrument of claim 11, further comprising at least one insulation layer of parylene or fluorinated ethylene propylene disposed over a length of the tubing. 15. The instrument of claim 13, further comprising at least one insulation layer of parylene or fluorinated ethylene propylene disposed over a length of the liquid crystal polymer cable. 16. The instrument of claim 1, further comprising at least one seal disposed within the wrist member or the distal end of the shaft. 17. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the end effector comprises a pair of cooperative tissue shearing blades, the conductor electrically communicating with at least one blade so as to deliver electrical energy to tissue engaged by the blades. 18. The instrument of claim 1, wherein the end effector comprises a scalpel, blade, hook, spatula, probe, needle point, dissectors, graspers, or movable jaws. 19. An electrosurgical instrument comprising: an elongate shaft having a proximal end and a distal end; an electrically conductive wrist member having proximal and distal devices disposed at the distal end of the shaft; an electrocautery end effector mounted to the wrist member, wherein the wrist member provides at least one degree of freedom to the end effector relative to the shaft; a conductor terminating at the proximal clevis of the electrically conductive wrist member so that the wrist member is the electrical connection between the conductor and the end effector; and at least one insulation material disposed over the wrist member so as to inhibit conduction of electrical current from the electrically live wrist member except to tissue engaged by the end effector. 20. A robotic surgical system comprising: a robotic arm having an instrument holder; an electrosurgical instrument detachably mountable on the instrument holder, the instrument having a proximal portion for engaging the instrument holder, an elongate shaft extending from the proximal portion to a distal end, an electrically conductive wrist member having proximal and distal devices disposed at the distal end of the shaft, an electrocautery end effector mounted to the wrist member, and a conductor terminating at the proximal clevis of the electrically conductive wrist member so that the wrist member is the electrical connection between the conductor and the end effector, the conductor coupled to an electrical connector on the proximal portion, at least one insulation material disposed over the wrist member so as to inhibit conduction of electrical current from the electrically live wrist member except to tissue engaged by the end effector; and an electro surgical generator detachably connected to the connector of the proximal portion so as to transmit electrical current distally to the end effector. 21. A method of performing a robotic surgical procedure, the method comprising: connecting a surgical instrument to a robotic surgical system, the surgical instrument having an elongate shaft at a distal end of which an electrically conductive wrist member and end effector are disposed, the wrist member having proximal and distal devices; inserting the end effector, wrist member, and at least the distal end of the shaft through a minimally invasive incision in a patient body; delivering electrical energy to the wrist member through a conductor terminating at the proximal clevis of the electrically conductive wrist member so that the wrist member is the electrical connection between the conductor and the end effector; engaging tissue with the end effector; and inhibiting conduction of electrical current from the wrist member except to the tissue engaged by the end effector. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising operating the wrist member in a fluid-filled environment. 23. The method of claim 21, further comprising articulating the wrist member so as to move the end effector in at least one degree of freedom relative to the shaft. 24. The method of claim 21, further comprising shearing the tissue cooperatively between a pair of blades of the end effector. 25. The method of claim 21, wherein delivering comprises transmitting radiofrequency energy. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein electrical energy is delivered in monopolar operation. 