A method is disclosed for effecting the concentration of a polar analyte in an alternating electric field. In the method, a relative translation of the polar analyte and an alternating electric field along a translation path is effected. A portion of the polar analyte is then trapped and concentrated in a concentration zone formed by the intersection of the translation path and the alternating electric field. Also disclosed are various devices for carrying out the forgoing method.
Claims We claim: 1. A device for manipulating a plurality of cells, comprising: (a) a translation channel, said translation channel having (i) first and second end regions, and (ii) first and second lateral side regions; (b) a first set of electrodes, wherein at least one electrode of said first set is disposed toward the first end region, and at least one other electrode of said first set is disposed toward the second end region; (c) a second set of electrodes, wherein at least one electrode of said second set is disposed toward the first lateral side region, and at least one other electrode of said second set is disposed toward the second lateral side region; (d) a first power supply disposed for electrical communication with said first set of electrodes and a second power supply disposed for electrical communication with said second set of electrodes; (e) a computer disposed for communication with said device, said computer being operable to establish a translational electrical field lengthwise along at least a portion of said translation channel and a trapping electrical field transverse to said translational electrical field, with said translational and trapping electrical fields crossing one another at an intersection defining a concentration zone; and (f) a detector positioned to detect cells in the concentration zone, wherein the computer is disposed for operable communication with the detector, and wherein the computer is configured to alter at least one of the translational electric field and the trapping electric field in response to data received from the detector. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the computer alters the translational electric field to effect translation of the cells along the translation channel such that at least a portion of the cells pass through the concentration zone. 3. The device of claim 1, further comprising a temperature control system. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the temperature control system is in thermal communication with the concentration zone. 5. A device for manipulating a plurality of cells, comprising: (a) an elongated channel including (i) first and second end regions, and (ii) first and second lateral side regions; (b) a first set of electrodes, wherein at least one electrode of said first set is disposed toward the first end region, and at least one other electrode of said first set is disposed toward the second end region; (c) a second set of electrodes, wherein at least one electrode of said second set is disposed toward the first lateral side region, and at least one other electrode of said second set is disposed toward the second lateral side region; (d) a first power supply disposed for electrical communication with said first set of electrodes and a second power supply disposed for electrical communication with said second set of electrodes; (e) a computer disposed for communication with said device, said computer being operable to establish a translational electrical field lengthwise along at least a portion of said elongated channel and a trapping electrical field transverse to said translational electrical field, with said translational and trapping electrical fields crossing one another at an intersection defining a concentration zone; and (f) a detector positioned to detect cells in the concentration zone, wherein the computer is disposed for operable communication with the detector, and wherein the computer is configured to alter at least one of the translational electrical field and the trapping electrical field in response to data received from the detector. 6. The device of claim 5, further comprising a temperature control system. 7. The device of claim 6, wherein the temperature control system is in thermal communication with the concentration zone. 8. A method of manipulating a plurality of cells, comprising: (a) establishing a translational electrical field lengthwise along at least a portion of a translation path and a trapping electrical field transverse to said translational electrical field, with said translational and trapping electrical fields crossing one another at an intersection defining a concentration zone; (b) detecting the presence or absence of one or more cells in the concentration zone; and (c) altering at least one of the translational electrical field and the trapping electrical field in response to data received during the detecting. 9. The method of claim 8, further including: effecting the relative translation of the cells along the translation path, wherein effecting the relative translation of the cells comprises applying at least one of a gravitational force, a centrifugal force, an electrokinetic force, a magnetic force, a hydraulic force, or a capillary force. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein effecting the relative translation of the cells comprises applying an electrokinetic force or a magnetic force. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one force is an electrokinetic force. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the electrokinetic force comprises electrophoresis. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the electrophoresis is effected by a direct current applied to a first electrode and a second electrode, wherein the first electrode is located toward a first end of the translation path and the second electrode is located toward a second end of the translation path. 14. The method of claim 8 wherein said trapping electrical field is an alternating electric field and a time-vs.-field strength profile of the alternating electric field is rectangular. 15. The method of claim 8 wherein said trapping electrical field is an alternating electric field and the time-averaged integrated field strength of the alternating electric field taken over one complete cycle is zero. 16. The method of claim 8 wherein said trapping electrical field is an alternating electric field and the frequency of the alternating electric field is between about 10 Hz and 100 MHz. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said trapping electrical field is an alternating electric field and the frequency of the alternating electric field is between about 1 KHz and 100 KHz. 18. The method of claim 8 wherein said trapping electrical field is an alternating electric field and the maximum field strength of the alternating electric field is between 100 V/cm and 100,000 V/cm. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said trapping electrical field is an alternating electric field and the maximum field strength of the alternating electric field is between 1,000 V/cm and 20,000 V/cm. 20. The method of claim 8, wherein said trapping electrical field is an alternating electric field and the alternating electric field is spatially non-uniform. 21. A device for manipulating a plurality of cells, comprising: (a) a translation channel; (b) processing means disposed for communication with said device, said processing means being operable to control generation of a translational electrical field lengthwise along at least a portion of said translation channel and a trapping electrical field transverse to said translational electrical field, with said translational and trapping electrical fields crossing one another at an intersection defining a concentration zone; (c) a detector positioned to detect cells in the concentration zone, wherein the processing means is disposed for operable communication with the detector, and wherein the processing means is configured to alter at least one of the translational electric field and the trapping electric field in response to data received from the detector; and (d) an away of support-bound binding complements located in the concentration zone. 22. The device of claim 21, wherein the binding complements are selected from antibodies and receptor ligands. 23. The device of claim 21, wherein the detector is configured to detect each location in the array. 24. A device for manipulating a plurality of cells, comprising: (a) a translation channel; (b) processing means disposed for communication with said device, said processing means being operable to control generation of a translational electrical field lengthwise along at least a portion of said translation channel and a trapping electrical field transverse to said translational electrical field, with said translational and trapping electrical fields crossing one another at an intersection defining a concentration zone; (c) a detector positioned to detect cells in the concentration zone, wherein the processing means is disposed for operable communication with the detector, and wherein the processing means is configured to alter at least one of the translational electric field and/or the trapping electric field in response to data received from the detector; and (d) a frit located in the concentration zone, wherein the frit is made of an insulating matrix. 25. The device of claim 24 wherein an alternating current electrical conductivity of the insulating matrix is less than an alternating current electrical conductivity of a fluid medium located in pores of the frit. 26. The device of claim 25 wherein the alternating current electrical conductivity of the insulating matrix is at least 3 times less than that of the fluid medium. 27. The device of claim 26 wherein the alternating current electrical conductivity of the insulating matrix is between about 10 and 1000 times less than that of the fluid medium. 