The present invention relates to an apparatus and methods for inspecting and orienting manufactured articles. The apparatus and method include recirculating inspected articles to the inspection station for additional processing.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: an article receiving station; an inspection station, the article receiving station and the inspection station forming a continuous loop; and a conveyance device for transporting articles between the article receiving station and the inspection station; the inspection station includes one or more automated devices for removing defective articles and orienting acceptable articles from the conveyance device; wherein the conveyance device recirculates articles not removed from the inspection station back to the article receiving station. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an article leveling station. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a waste separation station. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the waste separation station comprises an open bar grid configured to separate manufacturing waste from the articles. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, where the one or more automated devices comprises one or more vision guided robots. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a discharge conveyance device for removing oriented articles from the apparatus. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the inspection station comprises a first automated device for removing defective articles from the apparatus and a second automated device for orienting acceptable articles from the conveyance device. 8. An article inspecting and orienting apparatus, comprising: an article receiving station; a waste separation station; an article leveling station; an inspection station, the article receiving station and the inspection station forming a continuous loop; and a conveyance device for transporting articles between the article receiving station, the waste separation station, and the inspection station; the inspection station includes one or more automated devices for removing defective articles and orienting acceptable articles from the conveyance device; wherein the conveyance device recirculates articles not removed from inspection station back to the article receiving station. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the articles are blow-molded containers. 10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the waste separation station comprises an open bar grid configured to separate manufacturing waste from the articles. 11. The apparatus of claim 8, where the one or more automated devices comprises one or more vision guided robots. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising: a discharge conveyance device for removing oriented articles from the apparatus. 13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the inspection station comprises a first automated device for removing defective articles from the apparatus and a second automated device for orienting acceptable articles from the conveyance device. 14. A method of inspecting and orienting a plurality of articles, comprising: receiving a plurality of articles from a manufacturing process at a receiving station; separating manufacturing waste from the plurality of articles; providing the plurality of articles to an inspection station, the receiving station and the inspection station forming a continuous loop; inspecting the received plurality of articles; removing defective articles from the plurality of articles that fail inspection; orienting acceptable articles from the plurality of articles that pass inspection; and recirculating remaining articles that pass through the inspection station to the receiving station. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the plurality of articles are blow-molded containers. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the inspection station uses one or more automated devices to inspect and orient the plurality of articles. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the manufacturing waste is separated from the plurality of articles by an open bar grid. 18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: leveling the plurality of articles prior to inspection. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein the plurality of articles are inspected by at least one vision guided robot. 