A method of morphological reconstruction of biological activity in a tissue sample maps biological data resulting from analysis of tissue samples onto a 3-D morphological rendering of the biological sample. Each slice in a set of histological slices, indexed by a first index, is micro dissected into micro samples indexed by a pair of first and second indices. The indices are utilized to spatially map biological data to the 3-D rendering.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for creating a multidimensional morphological reconstruction of biological activity in a biological tissue sample comprising the steps of: imaging said biological tissue sample in at least three dimensions to create a computer generated multidimensional visualization of said tissue sample; unattendedly micro dissecting said tissue sample into a regular raster array to obtain a first set of tissue sub-samples, where each tissue sub-sample is located in a morphological location of the tissue sample before the unattendedly micro dissecting of the tissue sample and where each tissue sub-sample is indexed to a multidimensional grid, where coordinate indices of the grid indicate the original morphological location of the tissue sub-sample; isolating and coding the tissue sub-samples to allow mapping of said tissue sub-samples to the original morphological locations of said tissue sub-samples; analyzing the tissue sub-samples to obtain data values of biological functional characteristics; and using said grid coordinate indices to spatially map, using a computer, said data values to corresponding locations in said multidimensional visualization. 2. The method of claim 1 where all of said at least three dimensions are spatial. 3. The method of claim 1 where said imaging is by multi-modal imaging of serial microscopic sections. 4. The method of claim 1 where said micro dissecting is by laser capture microdissection. 5. The method of claim 1 where said data values of biological functional characteristics are gene expression values. 