An improved process for permanently attaching an overlay to a wheel disc, wherein the overlay is aligned and spaced apart from the wheel disc. A mold is created by a combination of the overlay, wheel disc and localized nests that engage at predetermined times during foam filling to close the mold. The mold is adequately sealed so that there is no foam leakage as the foam expands to fill the mold and, therefore, no final trimming of excess foam is required. The improved process is capable of accommodating a wheel having turbine openings therein.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A process for permanently attaching an overlay having an outboard surface and an inboard surface to a wheel having an outer surface and at least one predefined opening therein, said process comprising the steps of: locating said overlay in a fixture; positioning said wheel on said inboard surface of said overlay defining a cavity between said outer surface of said wheel and said inboard surface of said overlay, said overlay having at least one predefined opening therein, said at least one predefined opening of said wheel peripherally surrounding said at least one predefined opening of said overlay; clamping said overlay and wheel to a pallet; heating said overlay and said wheel to a predetermined temperature; engaging at least one localized nest in said at least one predefined opening of said overlay and said at least one predefined opening of said wheel so as to create a localized area of said cavity between said inboard surface of said overlay and said outer surface of said wheel, whereby a mold is made of said cavity; injecting a foamable liquid in to said cavity; curing said foamable liquid; disengaging said localized nest; and, unclamping said wheel and said overlay from said pallet. 2. The process as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of clamping said wheel to said overlay after positioning said wheel on said overlay, said clamping steps defining a cavity between said overlay and said wheel, said cavity having a plurality of openings. 3. The process as claimed in claim 1 wherein said step of heating said overlay and said wheel further comprises heating said overlay and wheel to a predetermined temperature within the range of 90.degree. F. to 190.degree. F. before said step of injecting said predefined quantity of foamable liquid. 4. The process as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of applying an adhesive sealant to said inboard surface of said overlay before said step of positioning said wheel on said inboard surface of said overlay. 5. The process as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: applying a vacuum to said overlay to remove any warpage of said overlay; and applying an adhesive sealant to said inboard surface of said overlay before said step of positioning said wheel on said inboard surface of said overlay. 6. The process as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the steps of: applying a vacuum to said mold cavity before said step of injecting said foamable liquid; and maintaining a vacuum in said mold cavity during said steps of injecting said predefined quantity of foamable liquid and holding said mold cavity closed for a predetermined period of time. 7. The process as claimed in claim 1 further comprising the step of applying a vacuum to said overlay to remove any warpage of said overlay. 