The invention provides a detection device for determining position information from an object to the detection device, wherein the position information includes at least a distance from that object to the detection device. The detection device includes: a light source arranged to emit light; a control device arranged to control the light source; a light measuring device comprising a 2D classification of light sensitive elements and arranged to measure reflected light and to generate a corresponding measuring signal; a signal processing device arranged to process the measuring signal to position information, including distance information, of the object with respect to the detection device, wherein the signal processing device includes an object recognition device is configured to recognize at least one of: an udder, a teat, a and respective parts thereof, and wherein at least one of the light measuring device has an absolute sensitivity maximum with a wavelength between 400 and 570 nm, and the light source has an absolute emission maximum with a wavelength between 400 and 570 nm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A detection device arranged to determine position information of a teat in an animal related treating device, wherein the position information comprises at least a distance from that object to the detection device, the detection device comprising: a light source arranged to emit light; a control device arranged to control the light source; a light measuring device comprising a 2D classification of light sensitive elements and arranged to measure reflected light and to generate a corresponding measuring signal; a signal processing device arranged to process the measuring signal to position information, including distance information, of the teat with respect to the detection device, wherein the signal processing device comprises an object recognition device is configured to recognize at least one of: an udder, a teat, and respective parts thereof, wherein the light measuring device has an absolute sensitivity maximum with a wavelength between 400 and 570 nm, and the light source has an absolute emission maximum with a wavelength between 400 and 570 nm. 2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the light source is arranged to emit modulated light, and wherein the light measuring device and the signal processing device are arranged to determine a phase difference between the emitted light and the reflected light. 3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the light measuring device and the signal processing device are arranged to determine a time difference between the emission of the light and the measurement of the reflected light. 4. The device according to claim 1, comprising an additional light source having an emission maximum with a wavelength between 600 and 1000 nm. 5. The device according to claim 1, wherein the light source has a modulation frequency of at least 20 MHz. 6. The device according to claim 4, wherein the additional light source has a modulation frequency between 10 and 75 MHz. 7. The device according to claim 1, wherein the light source comprises a LED or a laser. 8. The device according to claim 4, wherein the additional light source comprises a LED or a laser. 9. Animal treating device for treating an animal comprising a robotic milking device having a robot arm for automatically applying a teat cup to the animal, wherein the animal treating device comprises a detection device comprising: a light source arranged to emit light; a control device arranged to control the light source; a light measuring device comprising a 2D classification of light sensitive elements and arranged to measure reflected light and to generate a corresponding measuring signal; a signal processing device arranged to process the measuring signal to position information, including distance information, of a teat with respect to the detection device, wherein the signal processing device comprises an object recognition device is configured to recognize at least one of: an udder, a teat, and respective parts thereof, wherein: the light measuring device has an absolute sensitivity maximum with a wavelength between 400 and 570 nm, and the light source has an absolute emission maximum with a wavelength between 400 and 570 nm. 10. The animal treating device according to claim 9, wherein the robot arm control is operatively connected to the detection device in order to position the animal treating device with respect to the animal. 11. A method of determining position information of a teat in an animal related treating device, comprising a teat cup, using a detection device, comprising: emitting light by means of a light source; measuring light reflected by the teat with a light measuring device having an absolute sensitivity maximum with a wavelength between 400 and 570 nm, and generating a corresponding measuring signal; processing the measuring signal to position information of the teat with respect to the detection device, wherein the light source has an absolute emission maximum with a wavelength between 400 and 570 nm; and positioning the teat cup of the animal related treating device on the teat based on the position information. 12. An implement for automatically milking a dairy animal, comprising: a milking parlour; a sensor for observing a teat of the dairy animal; and a milking robot for automatically attaching a teat cup to the teat, the milking robot comprising a robot control unit operatively connected to the sensor, wherein the sensor comprises: a radiation source for emitting electromagnetic radiation having an absolute emission maximum with a wavelength between 400 and 570 nm, a receiver for receiving electromagnetic radiation reflected from the dairy animal, wherein the receiver has a sensitivity maximum between 450 and 570 nm; a lens for imaging the reflected electromagnetic radiation onto the receiver; a sensor control unit; and a matrix with a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns of receivers, wherein the sensor control unit is operatively connected to the radiation source to modulate the electromagnetic radiation, wherein the emitted electromagnetic radiation has a modulation wavelength of between 1 mm and 5 meters, and wherein the modulation wavelength is adjustable; wherein the sensor control unit determines repeatedly for each of the receivers a phase difference between the emitted and the reflected electromagnetic radiation to calculate distances from the sensor to a plurality of points on the dairy animal; and the robot control unit determines a position of the teat with the calculated distances between the sensor and the plurality of points on the dairy animal. 13. A detection device arranged to determine position information of a teat in an animal related treating device, wherein the position information comprises at least a distance from that object to the detection device, the detection device comprising: a light source arranged to emit light having an absolute emission maximum with a wavelength between 400 and 570 nm; a control device arranged to control the light source; a light measuring device comprising a 2D classification of light sensitive elements and arranged to measure reflected light and to generate a corresponding measuring signal; a signal processing device arranged to process the measuring signal to position information, including distance information, of the teat with respect to the detection device, wherein the signal processing device comprises an object recognition device is configured to recognize at least one of: an udder, a teat, and respective parts thereof, wherein the light measuring devices has an absolute sensitivity maximum with a wavelength between 400 and 570 nm. 