The present invention relates to methods of making preforms, fiber-reinforced molded articles and fiber mats, wherein the methods use electroluminescent devices such as LED's and/or quantum dots.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. The method of making fiber-reinforced molded articles, comprising: (a) applying a layer of reinforcing fibers on a mold surface which has a configuration corresponding to at least a portion of a molded article; (b) applying a composition comprising an electromagnetic energy-curable binder to at least partially coat the reinforcing fibers; (c) producing electromagnetic energy by one or more electromagnetic energy production elements, wherein said elements are selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof; (d) contacting said electromagnetic energy-curable binder with said produced electromagnetic energy, wherein one or more of said electromagnetic energy production elements are located on said mold surface. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said electroluminescent devices comprise one or more LED's. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said LED comprises a quantum dot. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said electromagnetic energy is one of visible light, ultraviolet light, infrared light, and a mixture of two or more of such energies. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein: (i) said binder composition includes an electromagnetic radiation-curable component and one or more of an anaerobic component and a thermally curable component; and (ii) said step of contacting said binder composition with said electromagnetic energy includes one or more of steps (e) and (f), wherein: step (e) comprises exposing said binder composition to an atmosphere promoting the anaerobic component; and step (f) comprises exposing said binder composition to thermal energy that promotes the curing of the thermally curable component. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the binder composition of step (b) further comprises a heat-curable binder component. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: (e) applying an electromagnetic energy-curable binder to at least one selected area of the fiber-reinforced molded article; (f) moving a subassembly into intimate contact with the fiber-reinforced molded article at the at least one selected binder-coated area; and (g) radiating electromagnetic energy onto the at least one selected binder-coated area to cure the binder and attach the subassembly to the fiber-reinforced molded article. 8. A method of manufacturing a preform, comprising the steps of: (a) moving a plurality of webs of fibrous reinforcing material along respective paths and guiding the webs superposed such that they superpose parallel to one another at a predetermined location and travel parallel to and in contact with one another; (b) applying a binder to at least one surface of each pair of facing surfaces of the webs upstream of the predetermined location, wherein said binder comprises at least one electromagnetic radiation-curable component; (c) producing electromagnetic energy by an electromagnetic energy production element selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof; (d) locally applying said electromagnetic radiation into selected spaced locations of the parallel contacting webs to cure the electromagnetic radiation-curable binder at the spaced locations and thereby tack the webs together; (e) cutting a blank from the tacked webs; (f) forming the blank in a three-dimensional shape in a mold corresponding to at least a portion of the preform; and (g) applying electromagnetic radiation to the blank by means of one or more electromagnetic energy production elements located on a surface of said mold to cure remaining uncured electromagnetic radiation-curable binder. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: (b1) applying an anaerobic binder; (h) contacting the blank with an atmosphere that promotes the curing of the anaerobic binder. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein said electroluminescent devices are LED's. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein the electromagnetic radiation of step (c) is one of visible light, ultraviolet light, infrared light, and a mixture of two or more of such energies. 12. The method of claim 8 wherein step (d) is further defined as: (d1) generating electromagnetic radiation by one or more electromagnetic energy production elements, wherein said elements are selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent radiation sources, quantum dots and combinations thereof; (d2) moving the element across the webs; and (d3) periodically transmitting the electromagnetic radiation from the element to the webs. 13. A method of making a preform comprising the steps of: (a) applying a two-stage binder to a mat of fiber reinforcement material to a degree sufficient to coat the fibers of the mat without filling the interstices among the fibers, wherein the two-stage binder comprises a first binder component and a second binder component, wherein the first binder component is a first electromagnetic radiation-curable binder component that cures when exposed to electromagnetic radiation of a first set of one or more wavelengths, and the second binder component is a second electromagnetic radiation-curable binder component that cures when exposed to electromagnetic radiation of a second set of one or more wavelengths; (b) exposing the two-stage binder to electromagnetic radiation of a first set of one or more wavelengths that promotes the curing of the first binder component; (c) forming the mat into a desired shape; and (d) exposing the two-stage binder to electromagnetic radiation of a second set of one or more wavelengths that promotes the curing of the second binder component, wherein: one or more of the electromagnetic radiation of step (b) and the electromagnetic radiation of step (d) is produced by means one or more electromagnetic energy production elements, wherein said elements are selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof and wherein one or more of said electromagnetic energy production elements are located on said mold surface. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the first binder component is curable by electromagnetic radiation characterized by one or more wavelengths in the ultraviolet range. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the first binder component is curable by electromagnetic radiation characterized by one or more wavelengths in the visible range. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein said electroluminescent devices are LED's. 17. The method of making fiber-reinforced molded articles, comprising: (a) applying a layer of reinforcing fibers on a mold surface which has a configuration corresponding to at least a portion of a molded article; (b) applying a composition comprising an electromagnetic energy-curable binder to at least partially coat the reinforcing fibers; (c) producing electromagnetic energy at spaced local zones by energizing selected one or more electromagnetic energy production elements, wherein said elements are selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof, wherein one or more of said electromagnetic enemy production elements are located on said mold surface; (d) contacting some, but less than all of said electromagnetic energy-curable binder with said produced electromagnetic energy, wherein some, but not all of said electromagnetic energy-curable binder will be cured. 18. A method of manufacturing a preform, comprising the steps of: (a) moving a plurality of webs of fibrous reinforcing material along respective paths and guiding the webs superposed such that they superpose parallel to one another at a predetermined location and travel parallel to and in contact with one another; (b) applying a binder to at least one surface of each pair of facing surfaces of the webs upstream of the predetermined location, wherein said binder comprises at least one electromagnetic radiation-curable component; (c) producing electromagnetic energy at spaced local zones by energizing one or more selected electromagnetic energy production elements selected from the group consisting of electroluminescent devices, quantum dots and combinations thereof; (d) locally applying said electromagnetic radiation into selected spaced locations of the parallel contacting webs to cure some, but less than all of the electromagnetic radiation-curable binder on the webs and thereby tack the webs together; (e) cutting a blank from the tacked webs; (f) forming the blank in a three-dimensional shape in a mold corresponding to at least a portion of the preform; and (g) applying electromagnetic radiation to the blank by means of one or more electromagnetic energy production elements to cure remaining uncured electromagnetic radiation-curable binder, wherein one or more of said electromagnetic energy production elements are located on said mold surface. 