A method of performing a medical procedure on a patient comprises conveying control signals from a remote controller to a drive unit, intravenously introducing the catheter into a heart of the patient (e.g., via the vena cava into the right atrium), and creating a puncture within a wall between two chambers (e.g., the left and right atria) of the heart. The method further comprises creating a puncture within a wall between two chambers of the heart, and operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals to advance a working catheter within the guide catheter through the puncture.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing a medical procedure on a patient, comprising: conveying control signals from a remote controller to a drive unit to thereby manipulate, including bending, a distal end portion of a catheter coupled to the drive unit; operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals to intravenously position the catheter distal end portion within a first heart chamber of the patient; and conveying control signals from the remote controller to the drive unit to thereby manipulate the catheter distal end portion to create a puncture in a wall between the first chamber and a second chamber of the heart. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second heart chambers are the respective right and left atria of the heart. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the catheter is introduced through the inferior vena cava into the right atrium of the heart. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals received from the remote controller to advance the catheter distal end portion from the first chamber into the second chamber through the puncture. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the catheter distal end portion has an expandable device, the method further comprising actuating the expandable device to anchor the catheter against the wall. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the catheter is a guide catheter, and the method further comprises operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals received from the remote controller to advance a working catheter within the guide catheter through the puncture. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the working catheter has an end effector, and the method further comprises operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals received from the remote controller to actuate the end effector within the heart. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the end effector is actuated to repair a valve within the heart. 9. A method of performing a medical procedure on a patient, comprising: conveying control signals from a remote controller to a drive unit to thereby manipulate, including bending, a distal end portion of a guide catheter coupled to the drive unit; operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals to position the guide catheter in a first heart chamber of the patient; operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals to manipulate guide catheter distal end portion for creating a puncture in a wall between the first chamber and a second chamber of the heart; and operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals to advance a working catheter carried by the guide catheter through the puncture. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first and second heart chambers are the respective right and left atria. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the guide catheter is introduced through the inferior vena cava into the right atrium of the heart. 12. The method of claim 9, further comprising operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals received from the remote controller to intravenously introduce the guide catheter into the heart. 13. The method of claim 9, further comprising operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals received from the remote controller to advance the guide catheter through the puncture. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the guide catheter distal end portion has an expandable device, the method further comprising actuating the expandable device to anchor the guide catheter against the wall. 15. The method of claim 9, wherein the working catheter has an end effector, and the method further comprises operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals received from the remote controller to actuate the end effector within the heart. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the end effector is actuated to repair a valve within the heart. 17. The method of claim 9, further comprising operating the drive unit in accordance with the control signals received from the remote controller to deflect a distal end of the working catheter. 