A patient-specific alignment guide includes a three-dimensional engagement surface customized in a pre-operating planning stage by computer imaging to closely mate and conform to a corresponding bone portion of a patient's elbow joint. The patient-specific alignment guide defines a first longitudinal guiding bore aligned with a reference axis associated with the elbow joint of patient when the alignment guide is mounted onto the corresponding bone portion.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of preparing an elbow joint for an implant, the method comprising: mounting a patient-specific alignment guide including a three-dimensional engagement surface custom-made by computer imaging to a corresponding closely conforming bone portion of a distal humerus of a patient's elbow joint; inserting into the distal humerus a first pin along an anatomic axis of the elbow joint through a first longitudinal guiding bore of the patient-specific alignment guide; inserting into the distal humerus a second pin through a second longitudinal guiding bore of the patient-specific alignment guide, the first and second longitudinal guiding bores being parallel to one another; removing the patient-specific alignment guide without removing the first and second pins; mounting a first resection guide on the distal humerus of the patient, wherein the first resection guide includes a first cutting component, a first guiding component and an L-shaped connector coupling the first cutting component to the first guiding component; abutting the first cutting component against a posterior surface of the distal humerus of the patient such that first and second elongated cutting slots of the first cutting component are aligned along a medial-lateral direction of the distal humerus; sliding the first guiding component over the first and second pins and abutting a lateral side of the distal humerus; and resecting the distal humerus through one of the first and second elongated cutting slots and forming a distal cut surface for receiving an implant. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: removing the first resection guide; slidably mounting a second guiding component of a second resection guide over the first and second pins; supporting a second cutting component of the second resection guide on the distal cut surface; mounting the second cutting component over an extension of the second cutting guide, the extension oriented perpendicularly to the first and second guide pins; making an anterior cut of the distal humerus through an elongated planar anterior cutting slot of the second cutting component; and making a posterior angled cut of the distal humerus through an elongated planar posterior cutting slot of the second cutting component. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the extension is received non-rotationally in an opening of the second cutting component. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the opening is elongated. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the extension is an elongated bar with an elongated cross-section. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein the L-shaped connector is removably coupled to the first cutting component using a T-slot connection. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein the L-shaped connector is removably coupled to the first cutting component using a rectangular slot and locking screw connection. 8. The method of claim 2, wherein the anterior planar cutting slot is perpendicular to a surface of the second cutting guide that contacts the distal cut surface. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the posterior planar cutting slot is at an oblique angle to the surface of the second cutting guide that contacts the distal cut surface. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second elongated slots are aligned along preoperatively determined patient specific orientations when the first guiding component is mounted over the first and second pins. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the first guiding component includes first and second planar portions defining an acute angle therebetween. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising mounting the first and third guiding bores over the first and second pins for a right humerus. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein the first guiding component includes first, second and third parallel guiding bores. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising mounting the first and second guiding bores over the first and second pins for a left humerus. 15. A method of preparing an elbow joint for an implant, the method comprising: mounting a patient-specific alignment guide including a three-dimensional engagement surface custom-made by computer imaging to a corresponding closely conforming portion of a distal humerus portion of a patient's elbow joint; inserting into the distal humerus a first pin through a first longitudinal guiding bore of the patient-specific alignment guide along a medial-lateral direction; inserting into the distal humerus a second pin through a second longitudinal guiding bore of the patient-specific alignment guide, the first and second longitudinal guiding bores being parallel to one another; removing the patient-specific alignment guide without removing the first and second pins; abutting a first cutting component against a posterior surface of the distal humerus of the patient such that first and second elongated cutting slots of the first cutting component are aligned along a medial-lateral direction of the distal humerus; coupling the first cutting component to a first guiding component using an L-shaped connector; sliding the first guiding component over the first and second pins and abutting a lateral side the distal humerus; and resecting the distal humerus through one of the first and second elongated cutting slots and forming a distal cut surface for receiving an implant. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: removing the first cutting component and the first guiding component without removing the first and second pins; slidably mounting a second guiding component over the first and second pins; supporting a second cutting component on the distal cut surface; making an anterior cut of the distal humerus through an elongated planar anterior cutting slot of the second cutting component; and making a posterior angled cut of the distal humerus through an elongated planar posterior cutting slot of the second cutting component. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising passing an extension of the second guiding component through an elongated opening of the second cutting guide. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the anterior planar cutting slot is perpendicular to a surface of the second cutting guide that contacts the distal cut surface. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the posterior planar cutting slot is at an oblique angle to the surface of the second cutting guide that contacts the distal cut surface. 