A human-machine interface of a control system for monitoring and control of a process and including a computer generated model of the process. The process or a part or component of the process is displayed such that the model is arranged to map a point on the computer generated model to data held by the control system about the at least one part or component of the process. A method to monitor and control a process using the human-machine interface and a system including the interface are also described.
Claims We claim: 1. A human-machine interface of a control system for monitoring and control of a process, comprising: a three-dimensional computer generated model of equipment, plant, or device for carrying out said process or a part or component of said process, wherein said model maps a point on the computer generated model to data held by said control system about the equipment, plant, or device or at least one part or component of said process, said model comprising graphic information manipulatable by an operator to retrieve, examine and use in direct relation to the equipment, plant, device or process by selecting a point on the model, which point is mappable via setpoints watchpoints or other data points to execute an instruction to retrieve technical information, provide additional information in the form of graphic information manipulatable by an operator to access, examine and carry out control actions for the equipment, plant, device or process, the model comprising a plurality of selectively displayed layers superimposed on the three-dimensional model, the layers comprising information regarding elements of the equipment, plant, device or process, said elements of said layers being displayed in a position in said model corresponding to a physical location of the respective elements, wherein the operator may zoom into and out of the model or alter an orientation of the model. 2. The interface according to claim 1, wherein said model is arranged for manipulation by computer software elements to change a shape of a displayed image and generate a change in an orientation of one or more selected parts of said model so displayed. 3. The interface according to claim 1, wherein said model is arranged for manipulation by computer software elements to change a shape of a displayed image and rotate said model or selected parts of said model about at least one axis. 4. The interface according to claim 1, wherein said model is arranged for manipulation by computer software elements to change a shape of a displayed image and change the scale of the one or more parts of said model so displayed. 5. The interface according to claim 1, wherein said model is changeable with computer software elements to present a visual display comprising a zoom-in on, and/or zoom-out from, one or more parts of said model so displayed. 6. The interface according to claim 1, wherein said model is arranged with computer software elements to display, show or superimpose technical data or information from any part of said process on the display of the one or more parts of said model. 7. The interface according to claim 6, wherein said model is arranged with computer software elements to provide an active link for accessing or retrieving technical data or information about one or more selected parts or components of said process displayed by said model. 8. The interface according to claim 1, wherein said model is arranged with computer software elements to provide an active link for accessing or retrieving technical data or real time information about a technical function of one or more selected parts or components of said process. 9. The interface according to claim 8, wherein one or more graphic components of said model are arranged with computer software elements for displaying a plurality of groups of technical information grouped relevant to a selected function, location or other operational facet or of a selected graphic component. 10. The interface according to claim 1, wherein said model is arranged with computer software elements to provide an active link for accessing or retrieving historical technical data or information about a technical function of one or more selected parts or components of said process so displayed. 11. The interface according to claim 1, wherein the one or more graphic components of said model are arranged with computer software elements for displaying technical information relevant to a selected function, location or other operational facet of the one or more parts of said process. 12. The interface according to claim 11, wherein the one or more graphic components of said model are arranged with computer software elements for displaying technical information relevant to a selected one or more components grouped into a plurality of functions, locations, and/or operational facets for the selected one or more parts of said process. 13. The interface according to claim 1, wherein said model is arranged for manipulation by computer software elements to so as to graphically change an orientation of one or more selected parts of said model. 14. The interface according to claim 13, wherein said model is arranged for manipulation by computer software elements to so as to graphically change both scale and orientation of one or more selected parts of said model. 15. The interface according to claim 14, wherein said model is arranged so as to graphically change both scale and orientation of one or more selected parts of said model at the same time. 16. The interface according to claim 14, wherein said model is arranged so as to change one or more selected parts of said model and display a moving image of said model in a mode of any from the list of: fly through, spinning, 3D viewing, zooming. 17. The interface according to claim 1, wherein said model is arranged displayed at least in part as a three dimensional representation of said process, arranged for manipulation by computer software elements to so as to graphically change an orientation of one or more selected parts of said model. 18. The interface according to claim 1, wherein said model is arranged for manipulation by computer software elements to superimpose a layer of information on top of a shape of one or more selected parts of said model. 19. The interface according to claim 1, wherein said model is arranged for manipulation by computer software elements to remove a layer of information from a shape of one or more selected parts of said model and display other information about said process. 20. The interface according to claim 1, wherein the computer generated model of said process provides and presents information in a control system of an oil or gas storage, treatment or process installation. 21. The interface according to claim 1, wherein the computer generated model of said process provides and presents information in a control system of an electrical generation, transmission or distribution installation. 22. A method to monitor and control a process using a human-machine interface for a system for monitoring and control, the method comprising: producing a three-dimensional model of equipment, plant, or device for carrying out said process with at least one graphic element displaying one or more parts or components of said process, said model comprising graphic information manipulatable by an operator to retrieve, examine and use in direct relation to the equipment, plant, device or process, the model comprising a plurality of selectively displayed layers superimposed on the three-dimensional model, the layer comprising information regarding elements of the equipment, plant, device or process, said elements of said layers being displayed in a position in said model corresponding to a physical location of the respective elements, wherein the operator may zoom into and out of the model or alter an orientation of the model; selecting a point on the model; mapping the point or data point on the computer generated model to data held by said control system about the equipment, plant, or device or at least one part or component of said process; and selecting or activating the point on the model to execute an instruction to retrieve technical information and to provide additional information in the form of graphic information manipulatable by an operator to access, examine or carry out control actions for a specific equipment, plant, device or process. 23. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: presenting on a display retrieved technical information associated with a device or process displayed or represented by said graphic element. 24. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: presenting for selection a group of information structures holding operational data about different facets of the at least one part or component of said process. 25. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: presenting for selection a list of information sources structures holding real time or historic operational data about different facets of the at least one part or component of said process. 26. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: presenting on the display information of a warning or alarm that has occurred in respect of the at least one part or component of said process. 27. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: presenting on a display a selection element configured to receive and/or display a warning or alarm that has occupied in respect of the at least one part or component of said process. 28. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: manipulating the model to automatically display the at least one part or component of said process for which a warning or alarm has been signalled. 29. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: manipulating the model to automatically display the at least one part or component of said process for which a warning or alarm has been signalled. 30. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: manipulating the model to add or remove a layer of operational information associated with the at least one part or component of said process for which a warning or alarm has been signalled. 31. The method according to claim 30, further comprising: manipulating the model to add or remove a layer of operational information associated with the at least one part or component for any from the list of: electrical system, water/utility system, location of people, alarms, process materials, fire and/or gas leakages. 32. The method according to claim 30, further comprising: manipulating the model to display the at least one part or component utilizing any graphic operation or 3D modelling operation from the list of: fly through, spinning, 3D viewing, zooming. 33. A computer program product, comprising: a computer readable medium; and computer program instructions recorded on the computer readable medium and executable by a computer or processor to carry out a method comprising producing a three-dimensional model of equipment, plant, or device for carrying out said process with at least one graphic element displaying one or more parts or components of said process, said model comprising graphic information manipulatable by an operator to retrieve, examine and use in direct relation to the equipment, plant, device or process, the model comprising a plurality of selectively displayed layers superimposed on the three-dimensional model, the layers comprising information regarding elements of the equipment, plant, device or process, said elements of said layers being displayed in a position in said model corresponding to a physical location of the respective elements, wherein the operator may zoom into and out of the model or alter an orientation of the model, selecting a point on the model, mapping the point or data point on the computer generated model to data held by said control system about the equipment, plant, or device or at least one part or component of said process, and selecting or activating the point on the model to execute an instruction to retrieve technical information and to provide additional information in the form of graphic information manipulatable by an operator to access, examine or carry out control actions for the equipment, plant, device or process. 34. A control system comprising a human-machine interface of a control system for monitoring and control of a process, comprising: a three-dimensional computer generated model of equipment, plant or device for carrying said process or a part or component of said process, the model comprising a plurality of selectively displayed layers superimposed on the three-dimensional model, the layers comprising information regarding elements of the equipment, plant, device or process, said elements of said layers being displayed in a position in said model corresponding to a physical location of the respective elements, wherein the operator may zoom into and out of the model or alter an orientation of the model, and a computer comprising a Human Machine Interface comprising a model of said process arranged in that said model maps a point on the computer generated model to data held by said control system about the at least one part or component of said process, wherein said model comprises graphic information manipulatable by an operator to retrieve, examine and use in direct relation to the equipment, plant, device or process by selecting a point on the model, which point is mappable via setpoints watchpoints or other data points to execute an instruction to retrieve technical information, provide additional information in the form of graphic information manipulatable by an operator to access, examine or carry out control actions for the equipment, plant, device or process. 35. The control system according to claim 34, wherein the human-machine interface comprises a model of said process arranged to map known set points in the model to data held by said control system about the at least one part or component of said process. 36. The control system according to claim 34, wherein the human-machine interface may be displayed and/or manipulated using a portable and/or wearable computing device. 37. The control system according to claim 34, wherein known set points in the model are linked or referenced to data held by said control system about the at least one part or component of said process utilizing one or more structured text documents. 38. The control system according to claim 37, wherein the structured text documents link control system objects to 3D model representations and their physical position/orientation. 39. The control system according to claim 37, wherein at least one structured text document is generated automatically. 40. The control system according to claim 34, further comprising a selector configured to select a part of a human-machine interface or 3D object and to display one or more visual or video images of a selected object. 41. The control system according to claim 40, further comprising a control configured to control the video images from the control system. 42. The control system according to claim 41, wherein the control configured to control the video images from the control system comprises a control configured to remotely operate pan or tilt or zoom a camera. 43. The control system according to claim 34, further comprising an access element configured to provide access to oral communication with an operator by selecting a symbol of the a human-machine interface or a 3D model control system. 44. The control system according to claim 43, further comprising an access element configured to provide access to oral or audio communication in a given area of an installation by selecting or manipulating a symbol of the a human-machine interface or 3D model control system. 45. The control system according to claim 44, wherein the access element comprises oral or audio elements, Public Alarm & Address devices, and/or loudspeakers. 46. The control system according to claim 43, wherein the access element comprises a UHF/VHF radio or phone or portable phone. 47. A human-machine interface of a control system for monitoring and control of a process, comprising: a display; and a three-dimensional computer generated model of equipment, plant, or device for carrying out said process or a part or component of said process, the model being displayed on the display and comprising a plurality of selectively displayed layers superimposed on the three-dimensional model, the layers comprising information regarding elements of the equipment, plant, device or process, said elements of said layers being displayed in a position in said model corresponding to a physical location of the respective elements, wherein the operator may zoom into and out of the model or alter an orientation of the model, wherein said model maps a point on the computer generated model to data held by said control system about the equipment, plant or device or at least one part or component of said process, wherein said model comprises graphic information manipulatable by an operator to retrieve, examine and use in direct relation to the equipment, plant, device or process by selecting a point on the model, which point is mappable via setpoints watchpoints or other data points to execute an instruction to retrieve technical information, provide additional information in the form of graphic information manipulatable by an operator to access, examine or carry out control actions for the equipment, plant, device or process. 