According to one aspect of the invention, a semiconductor substrate processing apparatus and a method for processing semiconductor substrates are provided. The method may include providing a semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of features on the surface, each feature being positioned on the surface at a first respective point in a first coordinate system, plotting the position of each feature at a second respective point in a second coordinate system; and generating a translation between the first and the second coordinate systems. The generating of the translation may include calculating an offset between the first and the second coordinate systems. The calculating of the offset may include calculating an offset distance between a reference point of the first coordinate system and a reference point of the second coordinate system and calculating an offset angle between an axis of the first coordinate system and an axis of the second coordinate system.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for calibrating substrate positioning within a metrology tool, the method performed by the metrology tool and comprising: providing a calibration semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of features on the surface, each feature being positioned on the surface at a first respective point in a first coordinate system of the metrology tool; plotting the position of each feature at a second respective point in a second coordinate system of the metrology tool; generating a translation between the first and the second coordinate systems; providing a second semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of second features on the surface, each second feature being positioned on the surface of the second semiconductor substrate at a third respective point in the first coordinate system; translating the third respective points in the first coordinate system into fourth respective points in the second coordinate system using said translation; moving the second semiconductor substrate into a plurality of substrate positions, each substrate position corresponding to one of the fourth respective points in the second coordinate system; propagating electromagnetic radiation onto at least one of the second features on the surface of the second semiconductor substrate, said propagation causing a photoelectron having a kinetic energy to be emitted from a material within the at least one of the second features; capturing the photoelectron; and determining the kinetic energy of the photoelectron. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said generating of the translation comprises calculating an offset between the first and the second coordinate systems. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said calculating of the offset comprises calculating an offset distance between a reference point of the first coordinate system and a reference point of the second coordinate system. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said calculating of the offset further comprises calculating an offset angle between an axis of the first coordinate system and an axis of the second coordinate system. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of substrate positions comprises a first substrate position, a second substrate position, and a third substrate position. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein each time the second semiconductor substrate is moved into the first, second, and third substrate positions, the second semiconductor substrate is moved in a first direction. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said movement of the second semiconductor substrate and said propagation of the electromagnetic radiation takes place within a chamber having a first portion and a second portion. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said movement of the second semiconductor substrate is performed by a robotic arm, the second semiconductor substrate entering the chamber at the first portion, the robotic arm moving the second semiconductor substrate from the first portion of the chamber to the second portion of the chamber, said propagation of the electromagnetic radiation taking place in the second portion of the chamber. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the robotic arm further retrieves the second semiconductor substrate from a load-lock chamber, the load-lock chamber being adjacent to the first portion of the chamber. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the robotic arm is rotatably connected to a base and moves in a third coordinate system. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising generating a translation between the third coordinate system and the second coordinate system. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first and second coordinate systems are Cartesian coordinate systems and the third coordinate system is a polar coordinate system. 13. A computer readable medium having a set of instructions stored thereon, which when executed by a processor, cause a method for calibrating substrate positioning within a metrology tool to be performed, the method performed by the metrology tool and comprising: providing a calibration semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of features on the surface, each feature being positioned on the surface at a first respective point in a first coordinate system of the metrology tool; plotting the position of each feature at a second respective point in a second coordinate system of the metrology tool; generating a translation between the first and the second coordinate systems; providing a second semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of second features on the surface, each second feature being positioned on the surface of the second semiconductor substrate at a third respective point in the first coordinate system; translating the third respective points in the first coordinate system into fourth respective points in the second coordinate system; moving the second semiconductor substrate into a plurality of substrate positions, each substrate position corresponding to one of the fourth respective points in the second coordinate system; propagating electromagnetic radiation onto at least one of the second features on the surface of the second semiconductor substrate, said propagation causing a photoelectron having a kinetic energy to be emitted from a material within the at least one of the second features; capturing the photoelectron; and determining the kinetic energy of the photoelectron. 14. The computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein said generating of the translation comprises calculating an offset between the first and the second coordinate systems. 15. The computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein said calculating of the offset comprises calculating an offset distance between a reference point of the first coordinate system and a reference point of the second coordinate system. 16. The computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein said calculating of the offset further comprises calculating an offset angle between an axis of the first coordinate system and an axis of the second coordinate system. 17. The computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the plurality of substrate positions comprises a first substrate position, a second substrate position, and a third substrate position. 18. The computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein each time the second semiconductor substrate is moved into the first, second, and third substrate positions, the second semiconductor substrate is moved in a first direction. 19. The computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein said movement of the second semiconductor substrate and said propagation of the electromagnetic radiation takes place within a chamber having a first portion and a second portion. 20. The computer readable medium of claim 19, wherein said movement of the second semiconductor substrate is performed by a robotic arm, the second semiconductor substrate entering the chamber at the first portion, the robotic arm moving the second semiconductor substrate from the first portion of the chamber to the second portion of the chamber, said propagation of the electromagnetic radiation taking place in the second portion of the chamber, wherein the robotic arm further retrieves the second semiconductor substrate from a load-lock chamber, the load-lock chamber being adjacent to the first portion of the chamber, and wherein the robotic arm is rotatably connected to a base and moves in a third coordinate system. 21. The computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the robotic arm further retrieves the second semiconductor substrate from a load-lock chamber, the load-lock chamber being adjacent to the first portion of the chamber. 22. The computer readable medium of claim 21, wherein the robotic arm is rotatably connected to a base and moves in a third coordinate system. 23. The computer readable medium of claim 20, further comprising generating a translation between the third coordinate system and the second coordinate system. 24. The computer readable medium of claim 23, wherein the first and second coordinate systems are Cartesian coordinate systems and the third coordinate system is a polar coordinate system. 25. A method for calibrating substrate positioning within a metrology tool, the method performed by the metrology tool and comprising: providing a semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of features on the surface, each feature being positioned on the surface at a first respective point in a first coordinate system of the metrology tool; plotting the position of each feature at a second respective point in a second coordinate system of the metrology tool; generating a translation between the first and the second coordinate systems; propagating electromagnetic radiation onto one of the features on the surface of the semiconductor substrate, said propagation causing a photoelectron having a kinetic energy to be emitted from a material within the one of the features; capturing the photoelectron; and determining the kinetic energy of the photoelectron. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein said generating of the translation comprises calculating an offset between the first and the second coordinate systems. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein said calculating of the offset comprises calculating an offset distance between a reference point of the first coordinate system and a reference point of the second coordinate system. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said calculating of the offset further comprises calculating an offset angle between an axis of the first coordinate system and an axis of the second coordinate system. 29. A computer readable medium having a set of instructions stored thereon, which when executed by a processor, cause a method for calibrating substrate positioning within a metrology tool, the method performed by the metrology tool and comprising: providing a semiconductor substrate having a surface and a plurality of features on the surface, each feature being positioned on the surface at a first respective point in a first coordinate system of the metrology tool; plotting the position of each feature at a second respective point in a second coordinate system of the metrology tool; generating a translation between the first and the second coordinate systems; propagating electromagnetic radiation onto one of the features on the surface of the semiconductor substrate, said propagation causing a photoelectron having a kinetic energy to be emitted from a material within the one of the features; capturing the photoelectron; and determining the kinetic energy of the photoelectron. 30. The computer readable medium of claim 29, wherein said generating of the translation comprises calculating an offset between the first and the second coordinate systems. 31. The computer readable medium of claim 30, wherein said calculating of the offset comprises calculating an offset distance between a reference point of the first coordinate system and a reference point of the second coordinate system. 32. The computer readable medium of claim 31, wherein said calculating of the offset further comprises calculating an offset angle between an axis of the first coordinate system and an axis of the second coordinate system. 