A stacker (1) for storing a plurality of microplates each having a top surface side and a bottom surface side opposed to the top surface side, comprises a housing and a removal gate (13) for removing a microplate of the plurality of microplates out of the housing. The stacker (1) is arranged to accommodate the plurality of microplates inside the housing such that the top surface side of one microplate of the plurality of microplates abuts on the bottom surface side of an adjacent microplate of the plurality of microplates and such that the housing adjoins to the plurality of microplates. Using such a stacker 1, the plurality of microplates can be arranged and stored in a compact manner wherein the single microplates of the plurality of microplates can still selectively and efficiently be accessed. Further, due to the controlled access to the plurality of microplates being arranged inside the housing of the described stacker 1 via the removal gate 13, icing of the microplates can be minimized when the stacker is cooled for long term storage of samples arranged inside the microplates.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A stacker adapted for storing a plurality of microplates in an about -80.degree. C. environment, the stacker comprising a housing and a gate for loading a microplate into and removing a microplate from the housing, respectively, the microplates each having a top surface side and a bottom surface side opposed to the top surface side, the stacker being adapted to accommodate the plurality of microplates inside the housing in a stack such that adjacent microplates abut with their top and bottom surfaces, respectively, wherein the housing comprises four essentially perpendicularly arranged side walls completely surrounding the interior of the housing, a top longitudinal end closed by a cover and an open bottom longitudinal end where the gate is arranged, each of the side walls having a contoured section slightly extending into the interior of the housing for adjoining each microplate accommodated in the housing, and wherein the gate has holding means for holding the plurality of microplates inside the housing and for releasing them from the housing, the holding means including two angled, flat spring like sheets each having a mounting portion attached to one of two opposing side walls and a retention portion forming an acute angle with the mounting portion, said spring like sheets being mounted with their mounting portions to two opposing side walls of the housing, whereby in a closed state of the stacker said retention portions protrude over a border of said bottom longitudinal end into the interior of said housing and provide a rest for the microplates accommodated in the housing, said mounting portions being resiliently bendable partly away from the side walls such that the retention portions are moved sidewardly clear of said bottom longitudinal end of the housing thereby bringing the stacker into an open state in which a microplate can be discharged out of or loaded into the housing via said bottom longitudinal end, the mounting portions of the spring like sheets being relaxed when the stacker is in its closed state and being tensioned when the stacker is in its open state. 2. A storage unit comprising a plurality of fixedly interconnected stackers according to claim 1, wherein each of the stackers adjoins to its adjacent stacker. 3. The storage unit of claim 2, wherein the stackers are arranged in a row. 4. The storage unit of claim 2 further comprising a bottom plate being connected to a bottom end of each of the stackers. 5. The storage unit of claim 4, wherein the bottom plate comprises removal openings for removing microplates out of the storage unit, each being arranged adjacent to the removal gate of one of the stackers. 6. The storage unit of claim 2 further comprising lifting means. 7. A freezer box for tempering (a) a stacker according to claim 1; or (b) a storage unit, comprising a plurality of fixedly interconnected stackers according to (a), wherein each of the stackers adjoins to its adjacent stacker; wherein the freezer box comprises a temperable interior which is arranged for accommodating the stacker of (a) or the storage unit of (b), and further comprising an opening at a top side or front side for receiving and removing the stacker of (a) or the storage unit of (b) into and out of the interior of the freezer box. 8. The freezer box of claim 7, further comprising a cuboid shape and a plurality of shafts, wherein each shaft has its open end at the top side of the freezer box and each shaft is arranged for accommodating a stacker or a storage unit. 9. A microplate handling system comprising a freezer box according to claim 7, a plate tray, a positioning disposition and a robot arm, wherein the plate tray and the positioning disposition are arranged to accommodate at least one source microplate with a plurality of microtubes and a delivery microplate such that a top surface side of the delivery microplate is arrangeable facing a bottom surface side of the at least one source microplate, wherein the positioning disposition has moving means for moving the at least one source microplate and the delivery microplate parallel in relation to each other into a predefined position when the plate tray and the positioning disposition accommodate the at least one source microplate and the delivery microplate, and wherein the robot arm has pushing means for pushing a predefined microtube of the plurality of microtubes from the at least one source microplate into the delivery microplate when the plate tray and the positioning disposition accommodate the at least one source microplate and the delivery microplate and when the at least one source microplate and the delivery microplate are moved to the predefined position by the moving means. 10. The microplate handling system of claim 9, wherein the plate tray is arranged for fixedly accommodating the at least one source microplate in a predefined position and the positioning disposition is arranged for movably accommodating the delivery microplate, wherein the moving means of the positioning disposition are arranged for moving the delivery microplate with its top surface side parallel to the bottom surface side of the at least one source microplate into the predefined position when the positioning disposition accommodates the delivery microplate and the plate tray accommodates the at least one source microplate. 11. The microplate handling system of claim 10, wherein the plate tray has at least one through-hole adjoining the bottom surface side of the at least one source microplate when the plate tray accommodates the at least one source microplate. 12. The microplate handling system of claim 10 further comprising a source microplate handling disposition having removal means for removing the at least one source microplate out of a first stacker or out of a first storage unit when the first stacker or the first storage unit is lifted out of the freezer box, accommodation means for transferring the at least one source microplate to the plate tray and for accommodating the at least one source microplate on the plate tray, as well as putting means for transferring the at least one source microplate from the plate tray to a second stacker or a second storage unit and for putting the at least one source microplate into the second stacker or the second storage unit. 13. The microplate handling system of claim 9 further comprising a platform being arranged on top of the freezer box, and a gantry robot being arranged on the platform, wherein the platform has a through hole and the gantry robot has gripping means for gripping the stacker or the storage unit such that the stacker or the storage unit is liftable through the through hole of the platform out of the freezer box by the gantry robot and such that the stacker or the storage unit is dropable through the through hole of the platform into the freezer box by the gantry robot. 14. The microplate handling system of claim 13 further comprising a tempering cap being tightly connected to the platform, having tempering means and enclosing the plate tray, the positioning disposition, the robot arm, and the gantry robot, such that the interior of the tempering cap is temperable by the tempering means separately from the tempering of the freezer box. 15. The microplate handling system of claim 9 further comprising a delivery microplate handling disposition having an additional stacker and putting means for transferring the delivery microplate to the additional stacker and for putting the delivery microplate into the additional stacker. 16. The microplate handling system of claim 9 further comprising an interim storage, wherein the robot arm has gripping means for gripping the delivery microplate, such that the delivery microplate is moveable into the interim storage by the robot arm. 17. A cold room for a microplate handling system according to claim 9 comprising at least a first compartment, a second compartment, a third compartment and a dry-air conditioning system, wherein the first compartment being operated at an elevated temperature has a docking port for loading the freezer box of the microplate handling system into the cold room and for de-loading the freezer box of the microplate handling system out of the cold room, wherein the second compartment is operated at a low temperature for storing a stacker according to or a storage unit according to, and wherein the third compartment is operated at an intermediate temperature for automated microplate handling. 18. A microplate handling method using the microplate handling system of claim 9 comprising the steps of: (a) tempering the freezer box to a predefined temperature range; (b) storing a plurality of storage units with a plurality of stackers each having a plurality of source microplates with a plurality of microtubes inside the freezer box; (c) providing an empty second storage unit corresponding to the storage unit; (d) accomodating a delivery microplate on the positioning disposition; (e) moving one storage unit of the plurality of storage units out of the freezer box; (f) transferring at least one source microplate via the removal gate of the corresponding at least one stacker to the plate tray; (g) simultaneously positioning the delivery microplate and the robot arm such that a bottom side of a predefined microtube of the at least one source microplate is arranged adjacent to a top surface side of the delivery microplate at predefined receiving means of the delivery microplate and such that the pushing means of the robot arm are arranged adjacent to a top side of the predefined microtube; (h) pushing the predefined microtube from the at least one source microplate into the predefined receiving means of the delivery microplate by means of the robot arm; (i) repeating steps (g) and (h) until all predefined microtubes of the at least one source microplate are pushed into the delivery microplate; (j) transferring the at least one source microplate into the second storage unit; (k) repeating steps (f) through (j) until all source microplates of the storage unit are located inside the second storage unit; and (l) moving the second storage unit into the freezer box. 