In the processing of mass-produced items that include a three-dimensional code formed therein, a system is provided for automating certain post-manufacturing processing steps. The system includes a printing mechanism that applies ink to the three-dimensional code to form an optically-readable code; a code-reading mechanism that reads the optically readable code and transmits a signal indicative of the code to a database that may be employed for tracking the processed items; and a transport mechanism that moves the items from the printing mechanism to the code-reading mechanism. In one embodiment, the system also includes a liquid agent application mechanism that applies a liquid agent to the items after the optically-readable code is formed. The transport mechanism includes a plurality of pallets on which the items are placed for processing, and that is operable to move the pallets sequentially to the several processing mechanisms.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for the automated processing of items, each of which incorporates information encoded in a three-dimensional data matrix formed on the surface of the item, the system comprising: a movable pallet having a surface configured to support at least one of the items; a printing mechanism operable to apply an ink medium to the three-dimensional data matrix of each item on the pallet to render the three-dimensional data matrix into an optically-readable code on the surface of each item on the pallet when the pallet is moved to the printing mechanism; a liquid agent application mechanism operable to apply a liquid agent to each item on the pallet after the printing mechanism has applied the ink medium; a code-reading mechanism operable to read the optically-readable code on each item on the pallet and to transmit a signal indicative of the optically-readable code to a database when the pallet is moved to the code-reading mechanism; and a transport mechanism operable to move the pallet from the printing mechanism to the liquid agent application mechanism, and from the liquid agent application mechanism to the code-reading mechanism. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the liquid agent application mechanism includes a spray head operable to spray the liquid agent onto each item on the pallet. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the liquid agent application mechanism further comprises at least one control mechanism selected from a group consisting of a flow control mechanism operable to control the flow rate of the liquid agent through the spray head, and a pressure control mechanism operable to control the pressure of the liquid agent delivered through the spray head. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the items are made of a curable polymer, and wherein the liquid agent includes a silicone mold release agent. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport mechanism is further operable to transport the pallet to an unloading apparatus that is operable to remove each item from the pallet, and wherein the system further comprises a cleaning mechanism operable to remove residual liquid agent from the pallet after all items have been removed from the pallet. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the cleaning mechanism comprises a blade that is movable across the surface of the pallet to remove the residual liquid agent. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the cleaning mechanism is actuated by at least one of electrical power and pneumatic power. 