A method for transferring a pattern from an elastic stamp to a substrate in the presence of a third medium is described. A proximity contact is achieved between the stamp and the substrate. A layer of the third medium between the stamp and the substrate is controlled to a predetermined thickness. Stamps for carrying out this method are also described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising transferring a pattern from an elastic stamp to a substrate in the presence of a third medium, the step of transferring comprising: bringing the stamp into contact with the substrate while controlling a layer of the third medium between the stamp and the substrate to a predetermined thickness by filling vias and recesses formed in the stamp with a component having an affinity for the third medium, and guiding excess third medium away from the surface of the stamp. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the substrate is rigid. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the substrate is impermeable. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the third medium comprises one or more of gas, water, solvent, polymer, emulsion, and sol-gel precursor. 5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of controlling comprises avoiding trapping of the third medium via a stamp matrix being permeable to the third medium. 6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of controlling comprises allowing a nanometer sized gap in the stamp to get filled with the excess third medium. 7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of controlling comprises providing a patterned stamp surface having channels to drain the excess third medium. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein the component is hydrophilic. 9. A method according to claim 8, wherein the component comprises a gel. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein the gel is swellable by the third medium. 11. A method according to claim 10, wherein the step of controlling comprises swelling the gel with the third medium to form protrusions in the stamp. 12. A method according to claim 1, wherein the excess third medium is trapped in a shallow lens-like pocket between the stamp and the surface of the substrate. 13. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of controlling comprises trapping the excess third medium in a pocket between the stamp and the substrate. 14. A method according to claim 1, wherein the stamp comprises channels. 15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the channels define molecular sized gaps between the stamp and the substrate. 16. A method comprising employing the method of claim 1 for a process taken from a group of processes consisting of: printing biological molecules on a surface; printing dyes on a surface; printing catalysts on a surface; printing acids or bases on a surface; printing of radical initiators on a surface; detection of molecules through proximity by fluorescence resonance transfer; purification and concentration of reactants; in an offset printing process; in a rolling contact process; or any combination of these processes. 