The present invention provides a method for screening for the effect of a test agent on a population of biological specimens, preferably insects, comprising the steps of providing a population of specimens, administering at least one test agent to the population, creating a digitized movie showing the movements of members of the population, measuring at least one trait of members of the population, and correlating the traits of the population with the effect of the test agent. The invention also provides a method for preparing a medicament useful for the treatment of a mammalian disease.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for determining whether at least one test agent has an effect on a population of insects comprising; providing a population of transgenic insects, wherein each of said transgenic insects of said population comprises a human neurodegenerative disease gene; identifying a trait of a specimen in the population before the administration of said at least one test agent; administering said at least one test agent to said population; creating a plurality of digital frames of a movie showing said trait of specimens in the population; and identifying a difference between said trait before administration of said at least one test agent and after administration of said at least one test agent, wherein a difference identifies said at least one test agent as having an effect on said population of insects. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of quantifying at least one trait of said population shown in said plurality of digital frames. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: determining an agent phenoprofile for said population, wherein the agent phenoprofile comprises a quantitative description of one or more traits exhibited by insects in said population; comparing the agent phenoprofile to a reference phenoprofile, wherein the reference phenoprofile comprises a quantitative description of said one or more traits exhibited by insects in a reference population; and selecting an agent that results in said agent phenoprofile being more similar or less similar to said reference phenoprofile. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said trait is selected from the group consisting of total distance traveled over a defined period of time, distance traveled in X direction over a defined period of time; distance traveled in Y direction over a defined period of time; total distance moved per time unit; distance moved in X direction per time unit; distance moved in Y direction per time unit); the rate of change of velocity per time unit, turning, stumbling, spatial position, and path shape. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein said step of determining comprises measuring data selected from the group consisting of X-pos, X-speed, speed, turning, stumbling, size, T-count, P-count, T-length, Cross150, Cross250, and F-count. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein said trait is selected from the group consisting of movement of one insect toward or away from another insect, occurrence of no relative spatial displacement of two insects, occurrence of two insects within a defined distance from each other, and occurrence of two insects more than a defined distance away from each other. 7. The method of claim 3, wherein said trait is a morphological trait. 8. The method of claim 3, wherein said population of insects has a phenotype with characteristics of a mammalian disease. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said step of identifying a trait comprises identifying more than one trait. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said more than one trait defines a phenoprint. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said population is a population of transgenic insects which develops a phenotype due to expression of said transgene, the method further comprising the steps of: determining an agent phenoprofile for the population at a plurality of times during the life of the insect; comparing the agent phenoprofile generated at each of the plurality of times to a reference phenoprofile generated at each of the plurality of times for a reference population, wherein the reference population consists of insects not contacted with said test agent; and determining whether said test agent modifies, delays or prevents onset of a trait of said agent phenoprofile in said population contacted with a test agent compared to said reference population. 12. The method of claim 11 or 8 wherein said trait is selected from the group consisting of total distance traveled over a defined period of time, distance traveled in X direction over a defined period of time; distance traveled in Y direction over a defined period of time; total distance moved per time unit; distance moved in X direction per time unit; distance moved in Y direction per time unit); the rate of change of velocity per time unit, turning, stumbling, spatial position, and path shape. 13. The method of claim 11 or 8 wherein said step of determining comprises measuring data selected from the group consisting of X-pos, X-speed, speed, turning, stumbling, size, T-count, P-count, T-length, Cross150, Cross250, and F-count. 14. The method of claim 11 or 8 wherein said trait is selected from the group consisting of movement of one insect toward or away from another insect, occurrence of no relative spatial displacement of two insects, occurrence of two insects within a defined distance from each other, and occurrence of two insects more than a defined distance away from each other. 15. The method of claim 11 or 8, wherein said trait is a morphological trait. 16. A method for determining whether at least one test agent has an effect on a population of insects comprising: providing a plurality of populations of transgenic insects, wherein each of said transgenic insects of said population comprises a human neurodegenerative disease gene; identifying at least two traits of a specimen in each of said populations before the administration of said at least one test agent administering said at least one test agent to each of said populations; creating a plurality of digital frames of a movie showing said at least two traits of specimens in each population; for each population identifying a difference between said at least two traits before administration of said at least one test agent and after administration of said at least one test agent, wherein a difference identifies said agent as having an effect on said population of insects. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of quantifying at least two traits of each population shown in said plurality of digital frames. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein each population of said plurality of populations is contacted, each with a different test agent; the method further comprising the steps of: generating an agent phenoprofile for each population, said agent phenoprofile comprising a quantitative description of said trait or said at least two traits exhibited by transgenic insects in each population; comparing said agent phenoprofile to a reference phenoprofile defined by said trait or said at least two traits that is measured in a reference population of insects; and ranking said test agents according to the similarity or difference of each agent phenoprofile with said reference phenoprofile. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein each population of said plurality of populations is contacted, each with a different test agent, the method further comprising the steps of: determining an agent phenoprofile for each of said populations, wherein the agent phenoprofile comprises a quantitative description of one or more traits exhibited by insects in the population; comparing the agent phenoprofile to a reference phenoprofile, wherein the reference phenoprofile comprises a quantitative description of said one or more traits exhibited by insects in a reference population; and selecting an agent that results in a change in said agent phenoprofile relative being more similar or less similar to said reference phenoprofile. 20. The method of claim 18 or 19 wherein said trait is selected from the group consisting of total distance traveled over a defined period of time, distance traveled in X direction over a defined period of time; distance traveled in Y direction over a defined period of time; total distance moved per time unit; distance moved in X direction per time unit; distance moved in Y direction per time unit); the rate of change of velocity per time unit, turning, stumbling, spatial position, and path shape. 21. The method of claim 18 or 19 wherein said trait is selected from the group consisting of movement of one insect toward or away from another insect, occurrence of no relative spatial displacement of two insects, occurrence of two insects within a defined distance from each other, and occurrence of two insects more than a defined distance away from each other. 22. The method of claim 18 or 19 wherein said trait is a morphological trait. 23. The method of claim 19 wherein said step of determining comprises measuring data selected from the group consisting of X-pos, X-speed, speed, turning, stumbling, size, T-count, P-count, T-length, Cross150, Cross250, and F-count. 24. The method of claim 1 or 16 wherein said trait or each of said at least two traits is selected from the group consisting of total distance traveled over a defined period of time, distance traveled in X direction over a defined period of time; distance traveled in Y direction over a defined period of time; total distance moved per time unit; distance moved in X direction per time unit; distance moved in Y direction per time unit); the rate of change of velocity per time unit, turning, stumbling, spatial position, and path shape. 25. The method of claim 1 or 16 wherein said trait is selected from the group consisting of movement of one insect toward or away from another insect, occurrence of no relative spatial displacement of two insects, occurrence of two insects within a defined distance from each other, and occurrence of two insects more than a defined distance away from each other. 26. The method of claim 1 or 16, wherein said trait is a morphological trait. 27. The method of claim 1 or 16, wherein said insect is transgenic for a gene encoding a polypeptide with an expanded polyglutamine tract as compared to the wild-type polypeptide. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the expression of the transgene results in neurodegeneration in said specimen. 29. The method of claim 1, 16, 18, 19, 3, 11, or 8 wherein said insect is a fly. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein said fly is Drosophila. 31. The method of claim 1, 16, 18, 19, 3, or 8 wherein said insect comprises a genetic mutation resulting in a loss of function or a gain of function. 32. The method of claim 18, 19, 3, 11, or 8, wherein said insect is a transgenic fly, and said reference population is selected from the group consisting of (i) transgenic flies not contacted with a test agent; (ii) transgenic flies contacted with an agent with a known activity on said flies; (iii) nontransgenic flies with the genetic background of the transgenic flies; or (iv) transgenic flies not expressing a disease gene and not contacted with a test agent. 33. The method of claim 18, 19, 3, 11, or 8, wherein said reference population is selected from the group consisting of (i) flies comprising a genetic mutation not contacted with a test agent; (ii) flies comprising a genetic mutation contacted with an agent with a known activity on said flies; or (iii) flies without the genetic mutation. 34. A method for determining an effect of at least one test agent on a population of insects comprising providing a population of transgenic insects; administering at least one test agent to said population; creating a plurality of digital frames of a movie showing two or more traits of specimens in the population; generating an agent phenoprofile comprising said two or more traits, and comparing said agent phenoprofile with a reference phenoprofile to generate a phenoprint; and identifying a difference between said phenoprint and a reference phenoprint, wherein a difference identifies said agent as having an effect on said population of insects. 35. The method of claim 2 or 17 wherein said step of quantifying comprises measuring data selected from the group consisting of X-pos, X-speed, speed, turning, stumbling, size, T-count, P-count, T-length, Cross150, Cross250, and F-count. 