Methods, apparatus, and computer program products that synchronously communicate data packets between a first node and a second node. Data packets are transmitted from the first node without waiting for acknowledgment of receipt by the second node. Acknowledgment of receipt of a given data packet is subsequently received at the first node. The acknowledgement is received substantially at a predetermined time following transmission of the given data packet. The acknowledgement indicates that the second node received the given data packet uncorrupted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: transmitting a first data packet from a first node to a second node, the first data packet including a first data field including non-filler data from the first node; receiving the first data packet at the second node, the receipt of the first packet taking a finite amount of time; beginning transmission of a second data packet from the second node to the first node after the receipt of the first data packet has begun, but before the receipt of the first data packet has finished; receiving the second data packet at the first node, the receipt of the second data packet taking a finite amount of time; beginning transmission of a third data packet from the first node to the second node after the transmission of the first data packet has finished, after the receipt of the second data packet has begun, and before the receipt of the second data packet has finished, the transmission of the third data packet beginning before any acknowledgement information corresponding to the first data packet has been received from the second node; receiving the third data packet at the second node, the receipt of the third data packet taking a finite amount of time; beginning transmission of a fourth data packet from the second node to the first node after the transmission of the second data packet has finished, after the receipt of the third data packet has begun, and before the receipt of the third data packet has finished, the transmission of the fourth data packet beginning before any acknowledgement information corresponding to the second data packet has been received from the first node, the fourth data packet including acknowledgement information indicating whether the first data packet was received correctly by the second node, wherein the transmission of the first data packet and the transmission of the fourth data packet are interlocked such that the fourth data packet is transmitted substantially a predetermined amount of time after the transmission of the first data packet; receiving the fourth packet at the first node; and processing at the first node the acknowledgement information indicating whether the first data packet was received correctly, the first node retransmitting the first data packet if the first data packet was not received correctly at the second node. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the second data packet is transmitted regardless of whether the first node has any non-filler data to place in a second data field of the second data packet. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first, second, and third data packets each include respective flow-control information, the flow-control information in the first and second data packets relating to the first node, and the flow-control information in the third data packet relating to the second node. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein: the flow-control information includes separate flow-control information for multiple channels. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first data packet includes header information indicating which of a plurality of channels the non-filler data is being transmitted on. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first and second data packets each include an indication of a fault status of the first node; and the third data packet includes an indication of a fault status of the second node. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first, second, and third data packets have a same length. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a fifth data packet at the first node before the third data packet is received, the fifth data packet having been transmitted from the second node before the third data packet, the fifth data packet not including acknowledgement information indicating whether a particular data packet was received correctly by the second node. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising synchronously communicating data packets between the first node and the second node wherein: synchronously communicating includes resending a specific data packet if acknowledgement of receipt of the specific data packet is not received substantially at the predetermined time following transmission of the specific data packet. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a packet at the first node, the packet identifying a no acknowledgment (NAK); and transmitting a reframing sequence from the first node to the second node to resynchronize the packet flow between the first node and the second node. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: retransmitting from the first node to the second node a specified number of packets transmitted prior to receipt of the NAK. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a packet at the first node from the second node; determining at the first node that the received packet has been corrupted; and transmitting a no acknowledgement (NAK) and a reframing sequence to the second node, the reframing sequence resynchronizing the packet flow between the first node and the second node. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: retransmitting from the first node to the second node a specified number of packets transmitted prior to receiving the corrupted packet. 14. The method of claim 1, where each packet has a fixed length such that a fixed phase offset is generated between the packets received at the second node and the packets transmitted by the second node such that packet transmission between the first node and the second node is interlocked. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: continuously transmitting a flow of data packets from the first node to the second node and from the second node to the first node, wherein the flow of data packets includes the first data packet, the second data packet, the third data packet, and the fourth data packet, and wherein data packets of the packet flow are continuously transmitted regardless of whether there are messages to transmit; wherein if message data is available, then the message data is carried by packets transmitted from the first node to the second node; wherein if message data is not available, then filler data is carried by packets transmitted from the first node to the second node; wherein a subsequent packet containing message data is transmitted from the first node to the second node before the first node receives an acknowledgement from the second node that indicates if a previous packet containing message data was correctly received; wherein the first node receives the acknowledgment at a substantially predetermined time after transmitting the previous data packet; and wherein if the acknowledgement from the second node indicates the previous packet was not correctly received, then the first node retransmits the message data in the previous data packet to the second node. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: continuously transmitting a flow of data packets from the first node to the second node and from the second node to the first node, wherein the flow of data packets includes the first data packet, the second data packet, the third data packet, and the fourth data packet, and wherein data packets of the packet flow are continuously transmitted regardless of whether there are messages to transmit; wherein if message data is available, then the message data is carried by packets transmitted from the first node to the second node; wherein if message data is not available, then filler data is carried by packets transmitted from the first node to the second node; wherein acknowledgements corresponding to packets transmitted from the first node to the second node are received by the first node from the second node at the same substantially predetermined time interval; wherein if an acknowledgement corresponding to a particular packet containing message data sent from the first node to the second node is not received at the first node from the second node at the substantially predetermined time, then the first node retransmits the message data in the particular packet to the second node; and wherein if the acknowledgement corresponding to a particular packet indicates that the packet was not received correctly, then the first node retransmits the message data in the particular packet to the second node. 17. A robotic surgical system comprising: a first node and a second node, wherein the first node and the second node are configured for communicating data packets between each other, and wherein communicating data packets comprises: transmitting a first data packet from the first node to the second node, the first data packet including a first data field including non-filler data from the first node; receiving the first data packet at the second node, the receipt of the first packet taking a finite amount of time; beginning transmission of a second data packet from the second node to the first node after the receipt of the first data packet has begun, but before the receipt of the first data packet has finished; receiving the second data packet at the first node, the receipt of the second data packet taking a finite amount of time; beginning transmission of a third data packet from the first node to the second node after the transmission of the first data packet has finished, after the receipt of the second data packet has begun, and before the receipt of the second data packet has finished, the transmission of the third data packet beginning before any acknowledgement information corresponding to the first data packet has been received from the second node; receiving the third data packet at the second node, the receipt of the third data packet taking a finite amount of time; beginning transmission of a fourth data packet from the second node to the first node after the transmission of the second data packet has finished, after the receipt of the third data packet has begun, and before the receipt of the third data packet has finished, the transmission of the fourth data packet beginning before any acknowledgement information corresponding to the second data packet has been received from the first node, the fourth data packet including acknowledgement information indicating whether the first data packet was received correctly by the second node, wherein the transmission of the first data packet and the transmission of the fourth data packet are interlocked such that the fourth data packet is transmitted substantially a predetermined amount of time after the transmission of the first data packet; receiving the fourth packet at the first node; and processing at the first node the acknowledgement information indicating whether the first data packet was received correctly, the first node retransmitting the first data packet if the first data packet was not received correctly at the second node. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein: the second data packet is transmitted regardless of whether the first node has any non-filler data to place in a second data field of the second data packet. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein: the first, second, and third data packets each include respective flow-control information, the flow-control information in the first and second data packets relating to the first node, and the flow-control information in the third data packet relating to the second node. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein: the flow-control information includes separate flow-control information for multiple channels. 21. The system of claim 17, wherein: the first data packet includes header information indicating which of a plurality of channels the non-filler data is being transmitted on. 22. The system of claim 17, wherein: the first and second data packets each include an indication of a fault status of the first node; and the third data packet includes an indication of a fault status of the second node. 23. The system of claim 17, wherein: the first, second, and third data packets have a same length. 24. The system of claim 17, wherein communicating data packets further comprises: receiving a fifth data packet at the first node before the third data packet is received, the fifth data packet having been transmitted from the second node before the third data packet, the fifth data packet not including acknowledgement information indicating whether a particular data packet was received correctly by the second node. 25. The system of claim 17, wherein communicating data packets further comprises synchronously communicating data packets between the first node and the second node; and wherein synchronously communicating includes resending a specific data packet if acknowledgement of receipt of the specific data packet is not received substantially at the predetermined time following transmission of the specific data packet. 26. The system of claim 17, wherein communicating data packets further comprises: receiving a packet at the first node, the packet identifying a no acknowledgment (NAK); and transmitting a reframing sequence from the first node to the second node to resynchronize the packet flow between the first node and the second node. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein communicating data packets further comprises: retransmitting from the first node to the second node a specified number of packets transmitted prior to receipt of the NAK. 28. The system of claim 17, wherein communicating data packets further comprises: receiving a packet at the first node from the second node; determining at the first node that the received packet has been corrupted; transmitting a no acknowledgement (NAK) and a reframing sequence to the second node, the reframing sequence resynchronizing the packet flow between the first node and the second node. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein communicating data packets further comprises: retransmitting from the first node to the second node a specified number of packets transmitted prior to receiving the corrupted packet. 30. The system of claim 17, wherein each packet has a fixed length such that a fixed phase offset is generated between the packets received at the second node and the packets transmitted by the second node such that packet transmission between the first node and the second node is interlocked. 31. The system of claim 17, wherein communicating data packets further comprises: continuously transmitting a flow of data packets from the first node to the second node and from the second node to the first node, wherein the flow of data packets includes the first data packet, the second data packet, the third data packet, and the fourth data packet, and wherein data packets of the packet flow are continuously transmitted regardless of whether there are messages to transmit; wherein if message data is available, then the message data is carried by packets transmitted from the first node to the second node; wherein if message data is not available, then filler data is carried by packets transmitted from the first node to the second node; wherein a subsequent packet containing message data is transmitted from the first node to the second node before the first node receives an acknowledgement from the second node that indicates if a previous packet containing message data was correctly received; wherein the first node receives the acknowledgment at a substantially predetermined time after transmitting the previous data packet; and wherein if the acknowledgement from the second node indicates the previous packet was not correctly received, then the first node retransmits the message data in the previous data packet to the second node. 32. The system of claim 17, wherein communicating data packets further comprises: continuously transmitting a flow of data packets from the first node to the second node and from the second node to the first node, wherein the flow of data packets includes the first data packet, the second data packet, the third data packet, and the fourth data packet, and wherein data packets of the packet flow are continuously transmitted regardless of whether there are messages to transmit; wherein if message data is available, then the message data is carried by packets transmitted from the first node to the second node; wherein if message data is not available, then filler data is carried by packets transmitted from the first node to the second node; wherein acknowledgements corresponding to packets transmitted from the first node to the second node are received by the first node from the second node at the same substantially predetermined time interval; wherein if an acknowledgement corresponding to a particular packet containing message data sent from the first node to the second node is not received at the first node from the second node at the substantially predetermined time, then the first node retransmits the message data in the particular packet to the second node; and wherein if the acknowledgement corresponding to a particular packet indicates that the packet was not received correctly, then the first node retransmits the message data in the particular packet to the second node. 