Provided are a system and method for providing contents service. A service storing apparatus stores service providing information and service request information. A service requesting apparatus composes a service search inquiry according to a contents service request, receives the inquiry result, and calls a corresponding service based on the received result to provide a corresponding contents service. A service relaying apparatus searches related service providing information from the service storing apparatus to provide information necessary for calling the service when the service search inquiry is received. A service providing apparatus provides service proxy information of a content service and provides a corresponding contents service when a service is called by a service requesting apparatus.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A contents service providing system comprising: a service storing apparatus for storing service providing information related to available services and service request information from a user; a service requesting apparatus for composing a service search inquiry according to a contents service request inputted by a user, receiving result information of the service inquiry request, calling a corresponding service based on the received result information, receiving a corresponding contents service as the calling result, and providing the received contents service to a user; a service relaying apparatus for searching related service providing information from the service storing apparatus and providing information necessary for calling the service when the service search inquiry is received from the service requesting apparatus; and a service providing apparatus for providing service proxy information to provide a service corresponding to service providing information stored in the service storing apparatus and providing a corresponding contents service when a service is called by a service requesting apparatus that receives the proxy information wherein the service requesting apparatus obtains service proxy object information corresponding to the service proxy information from the service relaying apparatus, calls the contents service to the service providing apparatus using the service proxy object information; and wherein the service requesting apparatus receives property values for registering a service request from a user, generates service request information, and transmits the generated service request information to the service relaying apparatus if service providing information is not in the search result received from the service relaying apparatus. 2. The contents service providing system of claim 1, wherein the service requesting apparatus comprises: a user inquiry input unit for generating a service search inquiry by receiving a keyword and a category from the user to find a target contents service, inquiring the service relaying apparatus with the generated service search inquiry, and receiving service providing information and service proxy information for receiving service proxy information from the service relaying apparatus; a service call unit for obtaining service proxy object information from the service relaying apparatus using the service proxy information received by the user inquiry input unit and calling the contents service from the service providing apparatus using the service proxy object information; and a user interface for receiving a result of a contents service called from the service call unit from the service providing apparatus, and providing the received result to a user. 3. The contents service providing system of claim 2, wherein the user inquiry input unit receives property values for registering a service request from a user, generates service request information, and transmits the generated service request information to the service relaying apparatus if service providing information is not in the search result received from the service relaying apparatus. 4. The contents service providing system of claim 3, wherein the service relaying apparatus registers service request information to the service storing apparatus when the service request information is transmitted from the user inquiry input unit, and transfers corresponding service providing information and service proxy information to the user inquiry input unit when service providing information matched with the service request information is registered. 5. The contents service providing system of claim 4, wherein the service relaying apparatus comprises a registration inquiry unit for searching the service storing apparatus using a category and a keyword included in the service search inquiry if the service search inquiry is received from the service requesting apparatus, obtaining corresponding service providing information and service proxy information to the service requesting apparatus; and a service proxy container for storing service proxy necessary for calling available contents services generated from the service providing apparatus. 6. The contents service providing system of claim 5, wherein the registration inquiry unit receives interest request information, which a service provider is interested about, from the service providing apparatus, stores the received interest request information in the service providing apparatus, and provides the stored interest request information if the registration inquiry unit receives a service request matched with the stored interest request information. 7. The contents service providing system of claim 5, wherein the service proxy container selectively provide service proxy information and service proxy object information corresponding to the service proxy information to the service requesting apparatus. 8. The contents service providing system of claim 6, wherein the service providing apparatus comprises: a service generating unit for generating a source code of a contents service to provide, generating related service providing information and service proxy information, and providing the generated service providing information and the generated service proxy information to the service relaying apparatus; a service providing unit for managing a state for providing a contents service based on the generated source code and providing a corresponding contents service; a service providing interface for providing corresponding service contents to the service requesting apparatus through a call interface in response to a contents service call from a service requesting apparatus that obtains service proxy information through the service relaying apparatus; and a service managing unit for adding, deleting, or modifying the interest request information through the service relaying apparatus, receiving service requesting information matched with interest request information from the service relaying apparatus, and providing the received service requesting information to the service generating unit. 9. The contents service providing system of claim 8, wherein the service managing unit provides a service providing information list with a terminated contents service deleted to the service relaying apparatus if a contents service is terminated. 10. The contents service providing system of claim 8, wherein the service managing unit receives a newly registered service request from the service relaying apparatus and stores the newly registered service request in the service storing apparatus. 11. The contents service providing system of claim 10, wherein the service managing unit transfers the stored service request information to the service generating unit when the service provider wants to provide a contents service in response to the stored service request. 12. The contents service providing system of claim 11, wherein the service generating unit generates a source code for a contents service based on the service request information transferred in response to a service request of the service managing unit and provides the generated source code to the service providing unit. 13. The contents service providing system of claim 8, wherein the service storing apparatus comprises: a service providing information table for storing service providing information for contents services provided from the service providing apparatus; a service request information table for storing service request information transferred from the service requesting apparatus, which is information about services that a user wants to receive; and a service request list information table for storing a list of requests for services interested by a service provider, which is provided from the service providing apparatus. 14. The contents service providing system of claim 1, wherein the service providing information comprises at least one of service provider information which is identification information of a service providing apparatus that provide a corresponding contents service, service target information which is information about a target to receive a corresponding contents service, service category information which is high level classification of a corresponding contents service, service keyword information which is information for searching the service category, service protocol information which is information used to provide a corresponding service, service interface location information for describing a location to obtain information for calling the contents service, and description information which is supplementary information for describing the service. 15. The contents service providing system of claim 3, wherein the service request information comprises at least one of service user information which is an identification value of a service request apparatus that registers a corresponding service request, service category information which is high level classification corresponding to the service request, service keyword information for detail search in the service category, service time limit information for the service request, user contact information which is information of user content related to the service request, request target information which is information about a target to transfer the service request, and description information which is supplementary information for the service request. 16. The contents service providing system of claim 6, wherein the interest request list information comprises at least one of service provider information which is identification information of a service providing apparatus that registers a corresponding interest request, service category information which is information about high level category of a service request interested by the service providing apparatus, service keyword information for detail search in the service category, and auto-deletion time limit information for automatically deleting the interest request. 