A system and method for coating a desired portion of the workpiece with a layer of paint comprises an upper reservoir for storing paint. A female shell has at least two sections joined together to generally surround the workpiece with a gap. An energy source applies a first voltage of a first polarity to at least one of the shell, a conductive layer of the shell, or conductive inlet associated with the shell. The energy source provides a ground or a second voltage of a second polarity, which is different in polarity to the first polarity, to the workpiece. A lower reservoir receives excess paint that flows off the workpiece. A foam reduction module receives the excess paint positioned between the workpiece and the lower reservoir.
Claims The following is claimed: 1. A system for coating a desired portion of the workpiece with a layer of paint, the system comprising: an upper reservoir for storing paint; a female shell having at least two sections joined together to generally surround the workpiece with a gap, wherein the female shell is configured to receive the paint from the upper reservoir; an energy source for applying a first voltage of a first polarity to at least one of the female shell, a conductive layer associated with the female shell, and a conductive inlet of the female shell, and providing a ground or a second voltage of second polarity, different than the first polarity, to the workpiece; a lower reservoir that is configured to receive excess paint that flows off the workpiece within the female shell; and a foam reduction module for receiving the excess paint positioned between the workpiece and the lower reservoir, wherein the foam reduction module comprises a sloped ramp and a primary barrier, the primary barrier having a lower portion with an opening for the paint and an upper portion to capture air bubbles or foam in the paint. 2. The system according to claim 1 further comprising a paint pump for recycling the excess paint to the upper reservoir from the lower reservoir. 3. The system according to claim 1 further comprising an evacuating pump for reducing the pressure of the gap to below an ambient atmospheric pressure. 4. The system according to claim 3 further comprising: a lid for enclosing the lower reservoir, the foam reduction module, and the female shell in an enclosed volume; a seal for hermetically sealing the lid to support a pressure differential between the enclosed volume and the ambient atmospheric pressure; and an air vent in the female shell for reducing the ambient pressure within the gap to that within the enclosed volume. 5. The system according to claim 4 further comprising: a shell seal associated with one section of the female shell for hermetically sealing the section to another section of the female shell. 6. The system according to claim 1 wherein the female shell has an interior surface that generally conforms to an exterior surface of the workpiece such that the gap has a generally uniform thickness, where the uniform thickness is measured from a normal projection from at least one of the exterior surface and the interior surface. 7. The system according to claim 1 further comprising one or more seals mounted in the female shell to protect an exterior shaft associated with the workpiece from receiving paint. 8. The system according to claim 1 wherein the female shell is molded from the workpiece having a coating of a desired thickness. 9. The system according to claim 1 wherein the foam reduction module comprises a sloped ramp having a secondary barrier at or near an end of the ramp, the secondary barrier comprising a series of plates oriented generally perpendicularly to a direction of flow of paint, the plates spaced horizontally apart from each other. 10. The system according to claim 1 wherein an interior surface of the female shell is generally coated with a metallic layer as the conductive layer. 11. The system according to claim 1 wherein the female shell comprises an outlet for discharging paint. 12. The system according to claim 1 wherein the female shell has multiple inlets for receiving paint and an outlet for discharging paint, each inlet associated with a valve for controlling the supply of paint to the workpiece; one of the multiple inlets comprising the conductive inlet. 13. A method for coating a desired portion of the workpiece with a layer of paint, the method comprising: providing a supply of paint; joining together at least two sections of a female shell to generally surround the workpiece with a gap; filling the gap of the female shell with the paint; applying a first voltage to at least one of the female shell, a conductive layer of the female shell, and a conductive inlet of the female shell, and providing a ground or a second voltage of different polarity with respect to the first voltage to the workpiece; receiving excess paint that flows off the workpiece in a lower reservoir; and reducing any foam in the excess paint prior to introduction into the lower reservoir, wherein the reducing comprises placing a primary barrier associated with a sloped ramp in the path of the excess paint, the primary barrier having a lower portion with an opening for the paint and an upper portion to capture air bubbles or foam. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein the providing the supply of paint comprises storing paint in an upper reservoir. 15. The method according to claim 14 further comprising recycling the excess paint to the upper reservoir from the lower reservoir. 16. The method according to claim 13 further comprising reducing the pressure of the gap to below an ambient atmospheric pressure. 17. The method according to claim 15 wherein reducing the pressure comprises the steps of: enclosing the lower reservoir, a foam reduction module, and the female shell in an enclosed volume; hermetically sealing the enclosed volume to support a pressure differential between the enclosed volume and the ambient atmospheric pressure; and reducing the ambient pressure within the gap to that within the enclosed volume. 18. The method according to claim 13 wherein the female shell has an interior surface that generally conforms to an exterior surface of the workpiece such that the gap has a generally uniform thickness, where the uniform thickness is measured from a normal projection from at least one of the exterior surface and the interior surface. 19. The method according to claim 13 further comprising mounting one or more seals in the female shell to protect an exterior shaft associated with the workpiece from receiving paint. 20. The method according to claim 13 further comprising molding the female shell from the workpiece having a coating of a desired thickness. 21. The method according to claim 13 wherein the reducing comprises placing a secondary barrier associated with an end of a sloped ramp, the secondary barrier having series of plates spaced apart by a horizontal spacing. 22. The method according to claim 13 further comprising forming a metallic layer, as the conductive layer, on an interior surface of the female shell. 