A robotic 5D ultrasound system and method, for use in a computer integrated surgical system, wherein 3D ultrasonic image data is integrated over time with strain (i.e., elasticity) image data. By integrating the ultrasound image data and the strain image data, the present invention is capable of accurately identifying a target tissue in surrounding tissue; segmenting, monitoring and tracking the target tissue during the surgical procedure; and facilitating proper planning and execution of the surgical procedure, even where the surgical environment is noisy and the target tissue is isoechoic.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer integrated surgical system comprising: an ultrasound imaging system; a medical robot; and a workstation configured to receive ultrasound signals from the ultrasound imaging system and control the medical robot, said workstation comprising: a strain imaging module configured to compute strain distribution data corresponding to ultrasound imaging system signals and medical robot signals, wherein the strain imaging module computes the strain distribution data at a strain data frame rate; an ultrasound module configured to provide ultrasound image data reflecting the anatomical structure of the target tissue, wherein the ultrasound module provides the ultrasound image data at an ultrasound image data frame rate; and a volume rendering module configured to generate a visualization of target tissue based on a function of said strain distribution data and said ultrasound image data, wherein said function differentiates said target tissue from surrounding tissue. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the medical robot comprises an end-effector. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein the end-effector comprises a linear actuator. 4. The system of claim 2, wherein the end-effector comprises parallel actuators. 5. The system of claim 2, wherein the medical robot further comprises means for synchronizing the acquisition of ultrasound image data and strain distribution data. 6. The system of claim 2, wherein the medical robot is configured to compress the target tissue and induce a strain distribution. 7. The system of claim 2, wherein the end-effector comprises: a linear actuator, a compression plate, and a ultrasound probe, the ultrasound probe configured to move linearly and the ultrasound probe configured to rotate while linearly moving the compression plate. 8. The system of claim 2, wherein the end-effector comprises: a means for creating an ultrasound image having a first compression level and a second compression level for every two consecutive ultrasound images. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a segmentation module configured to provide feedback segmentation data to a medical robot client module, wherein the medical robot client module comprises means for generating medical robot signals to cause mechanical motion of the medical robot as a function of the feedback data provided by the segmentation module. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the segmentation module is further configured to provide feedback segmentation data to the volume rendering module. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein each pixel of said visualization generated by said volume rendering module has a first pixel parameter determined by at least one of a corresponding strain value or a corresponding ultrasound image value and a second pixel parameter determined by at least one of a corresponding strain value or a corresponding ultrasound image value. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said first pixel parameter is color and said second pixel parameter is opacity. 13. The system of claim 1, further comprising an elasticity imaging module configured to derive elasticity related parameters relating to the target tissue. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein the elasticity imaging module can be reconfigured to estimate elasticity parameters based on strain based static imaging, wave based dynamic imaging and stress based mechanical imaging. 15. A workstation, configured to be coupled to an ultrasound imaging system and a medical robot, for use in a computer integrated surgical system, said workstation comprising: a medical robot client module configured to receive ultrasound data from the ultrasound imaging system at an ultrasound data acquisition rate, and to receive strain data resulting from mechanical motion of the medical robot at a strain data acquisition rate, wherein the ultrasound data acquisition rate and the strain data acquisition rate are substantially equal; a strain imaging module configured to derive strain distribution data relating to target tissue motion or deformation resulting from mechanical motion of the medical robot; an ultrasound module configured to provide ultrasound image data reflecting the anatomical structure of the target tissue; and a volume rendering module configured to generate a visualization of target tissue based on a function of said strain distribution data and said ultrasound image data, wherein said function differentiates said target tissue from surrounding tissue. 16. The workstation of claim 15, further comprising a segmentation module configured to provide feedback segmentation data to the medical robot client module, wherein the medical robot client module comprises means for generating medical robot control signals to cause mechanical motion of the medical robot as a function of the feedback data provided by the segmentation module. 17. The workstation of claim 16, wherein the segmentation module is further configured to provide feedback segmentation data to the volume rendering module. 18. The workstation of claim 15, wherein each pixel of said visualization generated by said volume rendering module has a first pixel parameter determined by at least one of a corresponding strain value or a corresponding ultrasound image value and a second pixel parameter determined by at least one of a corresponding strain value or a corresponding ultrasound image value. 19. The workstation of claim 18, wherein said first pixel parameter is color and said second pixel parameter is opacity. 