A robotic spray system is provided for accurately spraying mold release onto any size or shaped green tire. The system analyzes individual green tires using an integrated vision system. The system controls the robotic spray position, the fan, fluid, atomizing air, and tire rotation speed for optimal spray coverage on both the inside and outside of green tires. The system includes a conveyor, an overhead mounted camera located over an infeed station, and a second camera located perpendicular to the green tire's tread and several feet away from the center of the tire. Pictures of the green tire in the station are used to estimate the center and radius of the tire and locate the angle of the bar code with respect to the center of the tire. Reference points are provided from the camera images and robot positions are calculated to control the spraying.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for spraying a coating fluid on a surface of a green tire comprising the steps of: a) providing a green tire on a chuck, the green tire having a sidewall outer surface extending between a bead and a tread surface; b) providing a camera viewing the green tire on the chuck and generating from the camera an image of the green tire in profile including the tread surface and the sidewall outer surface; c) fitting a first line along a first portion of the image representing the sidewall outer surface and fitting a second line along a second portion of the image representing the tread surface; d) applying calipers to the image to determine a first reference point on the green tire where the sidewall outer surface deviates from the first line and is located a first predetermined distance from the first line and a second reference point on the green tire where the tread surface deviates from the second line and is located a second predetermined distance from the second line; and e) spraying a coating fluid on the sidewall outer surface in a circumferential area bounded by the first and second reference points, said area being less than an entire area of the sidewall outer surface. 2. The method according to claim 1 further comprising performing said steps b) through e) for a second sidewall outer surface of the green tire. 3. The method according to claim 2 further comprising spraying the coating fluid on the tread surface in a annular area bounded by the second reference point and a third reference point where the tread surface is located a third predetermined distance from the second line. 4. The method according to claim 1 further comprising providing another camera viewing the green tire on the chuck, generating an image of the sidewall outer surface from the another camera, and determining a position of the green tire on the chuck. 5. The method according to claim 4 further comprising estimating a center and a radius of the green tire and locating an angle of a bar code on the green tire with respect to the center. 6. The method according to claim 1 further comprising determining a center point of a line extending between the first and second reference points and positioning a spraying robot a predetermined distance from the center point to perform said step e), wherein the spraying robot position is spaced apart from the tire and the predetermined distance is defined prior to the step of determining the center point of the line. 7. The method according to claim 6 further comprising positioning the spraying robot inside the green tire for spraying a sidewall inner surface based upon the center point and a thickness of the green tire between the sidewall inner and outer surfaces. 8. The method according to claim 1 wherein the bead bulges from the sidewall outer surface and the first reference point is located at the bulge of the bead. 9. A method for spraying a coating fluid on a surface of a green tire comprising the steps of: a) providing a green tire on a chuck, the green tire having a first sidewall outer surface extending between a first bead and a tread surface and a second sidewall outer surface extending between a second bead and the tread surface; b) providing a camera viewing the green tire on the chuck and generating from the camera an image of the green tire in profile including the tread surface and the first and second sidewall outer surfaces; c) fitting a first line along a first portion of the image representing the first sidewall outer surface, fitting a second line along a second portion of the image representing the tread surface and fitting a third line along a third portion of the image representing the second sidewall outer surface; d) applying calipers to the image to determine a first reference point on the green tire where the first sidewall outer surface deviates from the first line and is located a first predetermined distance from the first line, a second reference point on the green tire where the tread surface deviates from the second line and is located a second predetermined distance from the second line adjacent the first sidewall outer surface, a third reference point on the green tire where the tread surface deviates from the second line and is located a third predetermined distance from the second line adjacent the second sidewall outer surface, and a fourth reference point on the green tire where the second sidewall outer surface deviates from the third line and is located a fourth predetermined distance from the third line; e) spraying a coating fluid on the first sidewall outer surface in a circumferential first area bounded by the first and second reference points, said first area being less than an entire area of the first sidewall outer surface; f) spraying the coating fluid on the second sidewall outer surface in a circumferential second area bounded by the third and fourth reference points, said second area being less than an entire area of the second sidewall outer surface; and g) spraying the coating fluid on the tread surface in an annular area bounded by the second and third reference points. 10. The method according to claim 9 further comprising providing another camera viewing the green tire on the chuck, generating an image of the first sidewall outer surface from the another camera, and determining a position of the green tire on the chuck. 11. The method according to claim 10 further comprising estimating a center and a radius of the green tire and locating an angle of a bar code on the green tire with respect to the center. 12. The method according to claim 9 further comprising determining a center point of a line extending between the first and second reference points and positioning a spraying robot a predetermined distance from the center point to perform said step e), wherein the spraying robot position is spaced apart from the tire and the predetermined distance is defined prior to the step of determining the center point of the line. 13. The method according to claim 12 further comprising positioning the spraying robot inside the green tire for spraying a sidewall inner surface based upon the center point and a thickness of the green tire between the sidewall inner surface and the first sidewall outer surface. 14. The method according to claim 9 further comprising determining a center point of a line extending between the third and fourth reference points and positioning a spraying robot a predetermined distance from the center point to perform said step f), wherein the spraying robot position is spaced apart from the tire and the predetermined distance is defined prior to the step of determining the center point of the line. 15. The method according to claim 14 further comprising positioning the spraying robot inside the green tire for spraying a sidewall inner surface based upon the center point and a thickness of the green tire between the sidewall inner surface and the second sidewall outer surface. 16. The method according to claim 9 wherein the first bead bulges from the first sidewall outer surface and the first reference point is located at the bulge of the first bead. 17. The method according to claim 9 wherein the second bead bulges from the second sidewall outer surface and the fourth reference point is located at the bulge of the second bead. 18. A method for spraying a coating fluid on a surface of a green tire comprising the steps of: a) providing a green tire on a chuck, the green tire having a first sidewall outer surface extending between a first bead and a tread surface and a second sidewall outer surface extending between a second bead and the tread surface; b) providing a camera viewing the green tire on the chuck and generating from the camera an image of the green tire in profile including the tread surface and the first and second sidewall outer surfaces; c) fitting a first line along a first portion of the image representing the first sidewall outer surface, fitting a second line along a second portion of the image representing the tread surface and fitting a third line along a third portion of the image representing the second sidewall outer surface; d) applying calipers to the image to determine a first reference point on the green tire where the first sidewall outer surface deviates from the first line and is located a first predetermined distance from the first line, a second reference point on the green tire where the tread surface deviates from the second line and is located a second predetermined distance from the second line adjacent the first sidewall outer surface, a third reference point on the green tire where the tread surface deviates from the second line and is located a third predetermined distance from the second line adjacent the second sidewall outer surface, and a fourth reference point on the green tire where the second sidewall outer surface deviates from the third line and is located a fourth predetermined distance from the third line; e) spraying a coating fluid from a robot on the first sidewall outer surface in a circumferential first area bounded by the first and second reference points, said first area being less than an entire area of the first sidewall outer surface; f) spraying the coating fluid from the robot on the second sidewall outer surface in a circumferential second area bounded by the third and fourth reference points, said second area being less than an entire area of the second sidewall outer surface; and g) spraying the coating fluid from the robot on the tread surface in an annular area bounded by the second and third reference points. 