An ultrasonic clamp coagulator assembly that is configured to permit selective cutting, coagulation and clamping of tissue during surgical procedures. An elongated portion of the instrument can be configured for endoscopic applications and has an outside diameter of less than 6 mm. The construction includes a clamping mechanism, including a clamp arm pivotally mounted at the distal portion of the instrument, which is specifically configured to create a desired level of tissue clamping forces. The clamping mechanism includes a two-piece pad design and pad material that enables the higher tissue clamping forces and a force-limiting mechanism that effectively smoothes out abusive tissue forces.
Claims We claim: 1. A tissue pad for use in an ultrasonic clamp coagulator, comprising a first tissue pad portion having a distal end and a proximal end, defining a length L, a first tissue engaging surface having a length corresponding to the length L and a cavity having an opening circumscribed by the first tissue engaging surface. 2. The tissue pad of claim 1 further comprising a second tissue pad portion, the second tissue pad portion made from a composition having a greater resistance to heat than the first tissue pad portion, the second tissue pad portion having a second tissue engaging surface and sized for placement within the cavity. 3. The tissue pad of claim 2, wherein the second tissue pad portion is made from a composition comprising of a polyimide. 4. The tissue pad of claim 2, wherein the second pad portion has a smooth tissue engaging surface. 5. The tissue pad of claim 2, wherein the second tissue engaging surface substantially coincides with the first tissue engaging surface. 6. The tissue pad of claim 1, wherein the first tissue pad portion is made from a composition comprising of PTFE. 7. The tissue pad of claim 1, wherein the tissue engaging surface of the first tissue pad portion is rough. 8. The tissue pad of claim 7, wherein the rough tissue engaging surface of the first tissue pad portion comprises a saw tooth configuration. 9. The tissue pad of claim 1, wherein the first tissue pad portion has a substantially wedge-shaped flange formed on a surface opposite the tissue engaging surface. 10. The tissue pad of claim 1, wherein the cavity is located at the proximal end of the first tissue pad portion. 11. The tissue pad of claim 1, wherein the cavity comprises a circular cross-section. 12. The tissue pad of claim 1, wherein the opening is annular shaped. 13. A method of mounting the first tissue pad portion of claim 1 onto a clamp arm of an ultrasonic clamp coagulator, the clamp arm having a proximal portion and a distal portion, the mounting method comprising the step of: a) inserting the first tissue pad portion into the clamp arm, the first tissue pad portion being oriented during the insertion so that the cavity is positioned at the proximal portion of the arm. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of gluing the first tissue pad portion to the clamp arm. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising the step of inserting the second tissue pad portion within the cavity. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of gluing the second tissue pad portion within the cavity. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the second tissue pad is made from a composition having a greater resistance to heat than the first tissue pad portion. 18. A method of mounting the tissue pad according to claim 9 onto a clamp arm of an ultrasonic clamp coagulator, the clamp arm having a proximal portion and a distal portion, and having a wedge-shaped slot formed therein, the mounting method comprising the step of: a) inserting the first tissue pad portion into the clamp arm by inserting the wedge-shaped flange formed on the first tissue pad portion into the wedge-shaped slot formed in the clamp arm, the first tissue pad portion being oriented during the insertion so that the cavity is positioned at the proximal portion of the arm. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising the step of gluing the first tissue pad portion to the clamp arm. 20. The method of claim 18, further comprising the step of inserting into the cavity a second tissue pad portion made from a composition having a greater resistance to heat than the first tissue pad portion, the second tissue pad portion having a tissue engaging surface and sized for placement within the cavity. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of gluing the second tissue pad portion within the cavity. 22. A tissue pad for use in an ultrasonic clamp coagulator, comprising: a) a first tissue pad portion having a first tissue engaging surface and a cavity having an opening circumscribed by the first tissue engaging surface; and b) a second tissue pad portion having a second tissue engaging surface and sized for mounting within the cavity. 23. The tissue pad of claim 22, wherein the second tissue engaging surface substantially coincides with the first tissue engaging surface. 24. The tissue pad of claim 22, wherein the cavity comprises a circular cross-section. 25. The tissue pad of claim 22, wherein the opening is annular shaped. 26. A method of mounting the tissue pad of claim 22 into a clamp arm having a proximal end and a distal end of an ultrasonic clamp coagulator, comprising the step of: a) inserting the first tissue pad into the clamp arm by orienting the cavity at the proximal end of the clamp arm. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of gluing the first tissue pad portion to the clamp arm. 28. The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of gluing the second tissue pad portion to the clamp arm. 29. The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of gluing said one of the first and second tissue pad portions to the arm of the ultrasonic clamp coagulator. 30. A tissue pad for use in an ultrasonic clamp coagulator, comprising: a) a first tissue pad portion made from a composition comprising PTFE, and having first and second ends, a rough tissue engaging surface disposed therebetween and a cavity having an opening circumscribed by the rough tissue engaging surface; and b) a second tissue pad portion sized for placement within the cavity and made from a composition comprising a polyimide and having a smooth tissue engaging surface. 31. The tissue pad of claim 30, wherein the rough tissue engaging surface substantially coincides with the smooth tissue engaging surface. 32. The tissue pad of claim 30, wherein the cavity comprises a circular cross-section. 33. The tissue pad of claim 30, wherein the opening is annular shaped. 34. A method of mounting the tissue pad of claim 30 into the clamp arm of an ultrasonic clamp coagulator, comprising the step of: a) inserting the first tissue pad into the clamp arm by orienting the cavity at the proximal end of the clamp arm. 