One aspect relates to optically detecting an at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon that has been converted from the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. The aspect can also relate to optically detecting an at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon that has been converted from the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within at least some matter of an at least a portion of an individual responsive to an at least some input energy being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual; and optically detecting an at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon that has been converted from the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon; wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon includes detecting an amount of at least one selected element within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual responsive to the at least some input energy being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual further comprises: inducing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual responsive to the at least some input energy based at least partially on a single input energy event being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: focusing the at least some input energy towards an at least a region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: collimating the at least some input energy towards the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: focusing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from an at least a region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: collimating the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: focusing the at least some input energy towards an at least a region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual; and focusing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from the at least the region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: filtering the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from an at least a region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual, wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon that has been converted from the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon is performed at least partially in response to the filtering the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from the at least the region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: attenuating the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from an at least a region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual, wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon that has been converted from the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon is performed at least partially in response to the attenuating the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from the at least the region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing at least partially within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual at least partially in response to the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon is processed in the optical domain. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon is processed in the electronic domain. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon is displayed over at least one display, and wherein the at least one display includes, at least one from a display group, the display group includes at least one of: an at least one scintillator glasses, a computer-type display, a television-type display, a hospital type display, or a monitor type display. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual comprises: inducing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual over a prescribed depth range to a prescribed depth within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon comprises: outputting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon directly to be viewed by a user. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon comprises: outputting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon indirectly via a multiple-step processor and/or visible-light scintillator device in a manner whose output is to be viewed by a user. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon comprises: outputting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon to a light frequency converter, whose output is detectable by a user. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon comprises: outputting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon to a photodetector, whose output is detectable by a user. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon comprises: outputting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon configured to be detected by a machine-based device. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon is performed at a rate sufficient to substantially capture a physical motion that is consistent with an individual-based physiological process. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon is performed at a rate sufficient to substantially capture a physical motion that is consistent with a user-observable physiological process. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising at least partially processing information associated with the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon. 23. The method of claim 1, further comprising at least partially filtering information associated with the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon. 24. The method of claim 1, further comprising at least partially deconvoluting information associated with the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon includes detecting at least some matter density of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon is performed on a position-by-position basis within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 27. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least some input energy includes a high-energy group, the high energy group includes at least one of at least some X-rays, at least some gamma rays, at least some electrons, or at least some ions. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the optically detecting the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon occurs at least partially to a range of fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing depths within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 29. The method of claim 1, wherein the individual includes at least one from a group of individuals, the group of individuals includes an at least one human, an at least one animal, an at least one organism, and/or an at least one plant. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual at least partially includes a group of matter, the group of matter includes at least one from at least one tissue, at least one bodily fluid, at least a portion of a bone, a boney portion, or at least one bone portion or bone fragment, at least a tooth, or a portion thereof, or an at least partially internal insert. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some input energy has an energy of greater than or equal to at least one from an energy group, the energy group includes 1 KeV, 10 KeV, or 100 KeV. 32. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon further comprises: anatomically inducing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 33. The method of claim 1, wherein the inducing at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon further comprises: functionally inducing the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 34. An apparatus, comprising: an at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion configured to receive at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within at least some matter of an at least a portion of an individual based at least partially on an at least some input energy being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual; wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion configured to optically detect an at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon converted from the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon; and wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion is configured to filter the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from an at least a region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual to within an at least one prescribed energy range. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising: a high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion configured to focus the at least some input energy towards an at least a region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 36. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising: a high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion configured to apply the at least some input energy to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 37. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising: a high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion configured to collimate the at least some input energy towards the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 38. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion is configured to focus the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from an at least a region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 39. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion is configured to collimate the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 40. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising: a high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion configured to focus the at least some input energy towards an at least a region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual; and wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion is configured to focus the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from the at least the region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 41. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion is configured to filter the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from an at least a region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual, and wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion is configured to optically detect the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon that has been converted from the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at least partially in response to the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion configured to filter the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from the at least the region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 42. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion is configured to attenuate the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from an at least a region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual, and wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion is configured to optically detect the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon that has been converted from the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at least partially in response to the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion configured to attenuate the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon from the at least the region within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the individual. 43. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising: an X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing portion configured to X-ray fluorescence visualize, image, or provide information in response to the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion configured to optically detect the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon. 44. The apparatus of claim 34, further comprising: an at least one processing portion configured to process the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon into an optical-processed X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information; and a display configured to present the optical-processed X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information to a user. 45. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein at least one operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable at least partially by a human user. 46. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein at least one operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable at least partially by a machine-based user. 47. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion is configured to have a controllable energy response. 48. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion comprises at least one photodetector. 49. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the at least one fluorescence X-ray receiving portion comprises at least one X-ray spectrometer. 50. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the at least one scintillated viewable and/or visible photon is processed in an optical domain to yield at least one optically processed scintillated viewable and/or visible light. 