A medical instrument assembly and robotic medical system are provided. The medical instrument assembly comprises an outer probe having an elongated shaft, an inner probe having an elongated shaft, coaxially disposed within the outer probe shaft, and a driver interface module having a plurality of actuating elements configured to be driven by a drive unit to independently effect movement of each of the outer and inner probes within at least one degree-of-freedom. The robotic medical system may comprise the driver interface module, a user interface configured for generating at least one command, a drive unit coupled to the actuating elements, and an electric controller configured, in response to the command(s), for directing the drive unit to drive the actuating elements to independently effect movement of each of the outer and inner probes to the degree(s)-of-freedom.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: an outer probe having an elongated shaft; an inner probe having an elongated shaft coaxially disposed within the outer probe shaft; a driver interface module having a plurality of actuating elements configured to be driven by a drive unit to independently effect movement of each of the outer and inner probes within at least one degree-of-freedom; a first cable extending within the outer probe shaft, the first cable coupled to a first one of the actuating elements in the driver interface via a first complementary actuating element to which the first cable is connected; and a second cable extending within the inner probe shaft, the second cable coupled to a second one of the actuating elements in the driver interface via a second complementary actuating element to which the second cable is connected, wherein the first and second actuating elements in the driver interface comprise respective pulleys that pull the first and second cables via the respective first and second complementary actuating elements to thereby independently effect the deflection of the respective outer probe shaft and inner probe shaft. 2. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the inner probe has an end effector associated with the inner probe shaft, and the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an actuation of the end effector. 3. The medical instrument assembly of claim 2, further comprising an additional cable extending within the inner probe shaft, wherein the plurality of actuating elements in the driver interface comprises a respective pulley that pulls the additional cable to effect the actuation of the end effector. 4. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the driver interface module comprises a drivable mechanism in which the outer probe shaft and inner probe shaft are mounted, and a receiver to which the drivable mechanism is configured for being removably mated. 5. The medical instrument assembly of claim 1, wherein the outer and inner probe shafts are flexible catheter shafts. 6. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: an outer probe having an elongated shaft; an inner probe having an elongated shaft coaxially disposed within the outer probe shaft; a driver interface module having a plurality of actuating elements configured to be driven by a drive unit to independently effect movement of each of the outer and inner probes within at least one degree-of-freedom; and a carriage on which the driver interface module is movably disposed. 7. A medical instrument assembly, comprising: an outer probe having an elongated shaft; an inner probe having an elongated shaft coaxially disposed within the outer probe shaft; a drivable mechanism to which the outer and inner probe shafts are mounted, the drivable mechanism having a plurality of actuating elements configured to independently effect movement of each of the outer and inner probes within at least one degree-of-freedom; and a receiver to which the drivable mechanism is configured for being removably mated, the receiver configured for operably coupling a drive unit to the plurality of actuating elements, wherein the receiver has a plurality of complementary actuating elements that mechanically interface with the actuating elements in the drivable mechanism. 8. The medical instrument assembly of claim 7, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises a deflection of at least one of the outer probe shaft and inner probe shaft. 9. The medical instrument assembly of claim 8, further comprising a cable extending within the at least one of the outer probe shaft and inner probe shaft, wherein the plurality of actuating elements comprises a pulley that pulls the cable via a respective complementary actuator to which the cable is connected to effect the deflection of the at least one of the outer probe shaft and inner probe shaft. 10. The medical instrument assembly of claim 7, wherein the inner probe has an end effector associated with the inner probe shaft, and the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an actuation of the end effector. 11. The medical instrument assembly of claim 10, further comprising a cable extending within the inner probe shaft, wherein the plurality of actuating elements comprises a pulley that pulls the cable via a respective complementary actuator to which the cable is connected to effect the actuation of the end effector. 12. The medical instrument assembly of claim 7, wherein the plurality of actuating elements comprises a gear, and the plurality of complementary actuating elements comprises a complementary gear that mechanically interfaces with the gear. 13. The medical instrument assembly of claim 7, wherein the plurality of actuating elements comprises a pulley, and the plurality of complementary actuating elements comprises a complementary pulley that mechanically interfaces with the pulley. 14. The medical instrument assembly of claim 13, wherein the pulley and complementary pulley have matching patterns that interlock with each other. 15. The medical instrument assembly of claim 7, wherein the outer and inner probe shafts are flexible catheter shafts. 16. The medical instrument assembly of claim 7, further comprising a carriage on which the driver interface module is movably disposed. 17. A robotic medical system for use with a coaxial arrangement of an outer probe and an inner probe, comprising: a driver interface module having a plurality of actuating elements; a user interface configured for generating at least one command; a drive unit including a motor array operatively coupled to the respective actuating elements; and an electric controller configured, in response to the at least one command, for directing the drive unit to drive the actuating elements to independently effect movement of each of the outer and inner probes within at least one degree-of-freedom. 18. The robotic medical system of claim 17, wherein the electric controller is configured for directing the drive unit to drive the actuating elements to effect movements of each of the outer and inner probes corresponding to movements at the user interface. 19. The robotic medical system of claim 17, wherein the user interface is located remotely from the drive unit. 20. The robotic medical system of claim 17, wherein the electrical controller is coupled to the drive unit via external cabling. 21. The robotic medical system of claim 17, further comprising a carriage on which the driver interface module is movably disposed. 22. The robotic medical system of claim 17, wherein the drive unit is coupled to the actuating elements via external cabling. 23. The robotic medical system of claim 17, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an axial rotation of the outer and inner probe shafts relative to each other. 24. The robotic medical system of claim 17, wherein the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises a deflection of at least one of the outer probe shaft and inner probe shaft. 25. The robotic medical system of claim 17, wherein the inner probe has an end effector associated with the inner probe shaft, and the at least one degree-of-freedom comprises an actuation of the end effector. 26. The robotic medical system of claim 17, wherein the driver interface module comprises a drivable mechanism in which the coaxial arrangement is mounted, and a receiver to which the drivable mechanism is configured for being removably mated. 27. The robotic medical system of claim 17, further comprising the coaxial arrangement. 28. The robotic medical system of claim 27, wherein the coaxial arrangement is a coaxial flexible catheter arrangement. 