A control system and method base on a model of a neurological structure such as the inferior olive of the brain. In one embodiment, individual inferior olive neurons are modeled in hardware, such as in an integrated circuit, and interconnected to form an artificial inferior olive. The artificial inferior olive thus formed can be used in a universal movement control system. An exemplary system for controlling the operation of a six-legged walker is described. The degree of coupling between neurons can be varied. A model is also provided which mimics the interaction between neurons of the inferior olive, the cerebellar nuclei and Purkinje cells via collateral axons. The model accurately describes the qualitative dynamics of cluster formation and spike-train generation in the olivo-cerebellar system. A universal control system (UCS) based on the olivo-cerebellar system is described.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control system comprising: a plurality of control circuits, each control circuit comprising the following elements: an input receiving connection for receiving an input signal; an oscillation generation circuit for generating at a first output terminal an oscillation output signal having an amplitude, phase and a frequency; a first spike generation circuit in communication with the oscillation generation circuit for generating a first spike signal when the oscillation output signal crosses a first threshold value, the first spike signal being provided at the first output terminal; a second spike generation circuit in communication with the oscillation generation circuit for generating a second spike signal when the oscillation output signal crosses a second threshold value, the second spike signal being provided at the first output terminal; wherein the oscillation output signal, the first spike signal and the second spike signal collectively form a composite output signal which is capable of controlling an actuating element, and wherein characteristic information of the actuating element is provided as part of the input signal to the control circuit to thereby adjust one of the amplitude, phase and frequency of the oscillation output signal. 2. The control system of claim 1, wherein a phase characteristic of the composite output signal of a first control circuit is maintained at a predetermined level relative to a phase characteristic of the composite output signal of a second control circuit. 3. The control system of claim 1, further comprising at least one coupling element for coupling adjacent control circuits. 4. The control system of claim 3, wherein the coupling element comprises a variable impedance element. 5. The control system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of coupling elements, each coupling element connected to two adjacent control circuits to thereby provide coupling between the two adjacent control circuits. 6. The control system of claim 5, wherein the impedance of the coupling elements is altered to thereby modify synchronization between coupled control circuits. 7. The control system of claim 1, further comprising a command input for controlling the coupling between control circuits. 8. The control system of claim 1, further comprising a first cluster of control circuits and a second cluster of control circuits, the first cluster of control circuits being characterized by a higher degree of coupling between control circuits of the first cluster relative to a lower degree of coupling between control circuits of the first cluster and control circuits of the second cluster. 9. The control system of claim 1, wherein the first spike generation circuit generates the first spike signal at a peak of the oscillation output signal. 10. The control system of claim 1, wherein the first spike signal and the second spike signal have different amplitudes. 11. A control system comprising: a plurality of control circuits, each control circuit comprising the following elements: an input receiving connection for receiving an input signal; an oscillation generation circuit for generating at a first output terminal and a second output terminal an oscillation output signal having an amplitude, phase and a frequency; a first spike generation circuit in communication with the oscillation generation circuit for generating a first spike signal when the oscillation output signal crosses a first threshold value, the first spike signal being provided at the first output terminal and the second output terminal; a second spike generation circuit in communication with the oscillation generation circuit for generating a second spike signal when the oscillation output signal crosses a second threshold value, the second spike signal being provided at the first output terminal; wherein the oscillation output signal, the first spike signal and the second spike signal collectively form a first composite output signal at the first output terminal, and the oscillation output signal and the first spike signal collectively form a second composite output signal at the second output terminal, such that at least one of the composite output signals is capable of controlling an actuating element, and wherein characteristic information of the actuating element is provided as part of the input signal to the control circuit to thereby adjust one of the amplitude, phase and frequency of the oscillation output signal. 12. The control system of claim 11, wherein a phase characteristic of the composite output signal of a first control circuit is maintained at a predetermined level relative to a phase characteristic of the composite output signal of a second control circuit. 13. The control system of claim 11, further comprising at least one coupling element for coupling adjacent control circuits. 14. The control system of claim 13, wherein the coupling element comprises a variable impedance element. 15. The control system of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of coupling elements, each coupling element connected to two adjacent control circuits to thereby provide coupling between the two adjacent control circuits. 16. The control system of claim 15, wherein the impedance of the coupling elements is altered to thereby modify synchronization between coupled control circuits. 17. The control system of claim 11, further comprising a command input for controlling the coupling between control circuits. 18. The control system of claim 11, further comprising a first cluster of control circuits and a second cluster of control circuits, the first cluster of control circuits being characterized by a higher degree of coupling between control circuits of the first cluster relative to a lower degree of coupling between control circuits of the first cluster and control circuits of the second cluster. 19. A robotic control system comprising: a plurality of control circuits, each control circuit comprising the following elements: an input receiving connection for receiving an input signal; an oscillation generation circuit for generating at a first output terminal an oscillation output signal having an amplitude, phase and a frequency; a first spike generation circuit in communication with the oscillation generation circuit for generating a first spike signal when the oscillation output signal crosses a first threshold value, the first spike signal being provided at the first output terminal; a second spike generation circuit in communication with the oscillation generation circuit for generating a second spike signal when the oscillation output signal crosses a second threshold value, the second spike signal being provided at the first output terminal; wherein the oscillation output signal, the first spike signal and the second spike signal collectively form a composite output signal which is capable of controlling an actuating element, and wherein a sensor is used to obtain characteristic information of the actuating element such that the characteristic information is provided as part of the input signal to the control circuit to thereby adjust one of the amplitude, phase and frequency of the oscillation output signal; and further wherein the input signal is used to synchronize controlled movement of the actuation elements. 20. A method of controlling a system comprising the following steps: using a plurality of control circuits, each control circuit performing the following steps: receiving an input signal at an input receiving connection; generating at a first output terminal an oscillation output signal having an amplitude, phase and a frequency; generating a first spike signal when the oscillation output signal crosses a first threshold value, the first spike signal being provided at the first output terminal; generating a second spike signal when the oscillation output signal crosses a second threshold value, the second spike signal being provided at the first output terminal; wherein the oscillation output signal, the first spike signal and the second spike signal collectively form a composite output signal which is capable of controlling an actuating element, and further comprising the step of obtaining characteristic information of the actuating element which is provided as part of the input signal to the control circuit to thereby adjust one of the amplitude, phase and frequency of the oscillation output signal. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein a phase characteristic of the composite output signal of a first control circuit is maintained at a predetermined level relative to a phase characteristic of the composite output signal of a second control circuit. 22. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of using at least one coupling element for coupling adjacent control circuits. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the coupling element comprises a variable impedance element. 24. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of using a plurality of coupling elements, each coupling element connected to two adjacent control circuits to thereby provide coupling between the two adjacent control circuits. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising the step of altering the impedance to thereby modify synchronization between coupled control circuits. 26. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of applying a command input for controlling the coupling between control circuits. 27. The method of claim 20, further comprising the step of creating a first cluster of control circuits and a second cluster of control circuits, the first cluster of control circuits being characterized by a higher degree of coupling between control circuits of the first cluster relative to a lower degree of coupling between control circuits of the first cluster and control circuits of the second cluster. 28. A method of controlling a system comprising the following steps: using a plurality of control circuits, each control circuit performing the following steps: receiving an input signal at an input receiving connection; generating at a first output terminal and at a second output terminal an oscillation output signal having an amplitude, phase and a frequency; generating a first spike signal when the oscillation output signal crosses a first threshold value, the first spike signal being provided at the first output terminal and the second output terminal; generating a second spike signal when the oscillation output signal crosses a second threshold value, the second spike signal being provided at the first output terminal; wherein the oscillation output signal, the first spike signal and the second spike signal collectively form a composite output signal at the first output terminal, and the oscillation output signal and the first spike signal collectively form a second composite output signal at the second output terminal, such that at least one of the composite output signals is capable of controlling an actuating element, and further comprising the step of obtaining characteristic information of the actuating element which is provided as part of the input signal to the control circuit to thereby adjust one of the amplitude, phase and frequency of the oscillation output signal. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein a phase characteristic of the composite output signal of a first control circuit is maintained at a predetermined level relative to a phase characteristic of the composite output signal of a second control circuit. 30. The method of claim 28, further comprising the step of using at least one coupling element for coupling adjacent control circuits. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein the coupling element comprises a variable impedance element. 32. The method of claim 30, further comprising the step of using a plurality of coupling elements, each coupling element connected to two adjacent control circuits to thereby provide coupling between the two adjacent control circuits. 33. The method of claim 32, further comprising the step of altering the impedance to thereby modify synchronization between coupled control circuits. 34. The method of claim 28, further comprising the step of applying a command input for controlling the coupling between control circuits. 35. The method of claim 28, further comprising the step of creating a first cluster of control circuits and a second cluster of control circuits, the first cluster of control circuits being characterized by a higher degree of coupling between control circuits of the first cluster relative to a lower degree of coupling between control circuits of the first cluster and control circuits of the second cluster. 