In relation with a laser-induced transport process of an object from a carrier to a collecting device, the invention provides a collecting medium in the collecting device in a liquid state. Prior to the laser-induced transport process, the object is separated from a mass on the carrier by laser irradiation. After the laser-induced transport process, the object, thus selected and separated, is transferred together with the collecting medium to a destination, for example, a container, for further treatment. To this end, a manipulation system for liquids is provided, the system permitting manipulation of the collecting medium with the object contained therein with a high degree of reliability and a high throughput.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for handling objects, which comprises: locating an object on a carrier; and transporting the object by a laser-induced transport process from the carrier to a collecting medium that is in a liquid state and that is held in the form of a drop on a collecting device by at least one of adhesion and surface tension. 2. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises, following the laser-induced transport process, transferring the object with the drop of collecting medium to a target location. 3. The method according to claim 2, which further comprises carrying out the transferring step by conveying of the collecting medium. 4. The method according to claim 2, which further comprises carrying out the transferring step by causing a flow motion of the collecting medium. 5. The method according to claim 2, which further comprises carrying out the transferring step by drop-like dispensing of the collecting medium. 6. The method according to claim 2, which further comprises carrying out the transferring step by sucking the collecting medium. 7. The method according to claim 2, which further comprises: carrying out the transferring step by moving the collecting device relative to the target location. 8. The method according to claim 2, which further comprises carrying out the transferring step by supplying further collecting medium to the collecting medium with the object. 9. The method according to claim 2, which further comprises executing the transferring step automatically. 10. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises targetedly influencing a shaping of a surface of the collecting medium presented to the carrier with a geometry of the collecting device. 11. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises targetedly influencing a shaping of a surface of the collecting medium presented to the carrier with a surface composition of the collecting device. 12. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises selecting the collecting medium dependent upon a following processing step for the object. 13. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises separating the object from a mass located on the carrier by laser irradiation. 14. The method according to claim 1, which further comprises checking a result of the laser-induced transport process by monitoring the collecting medium. 15. The method according to claim 14, which further comprises carrying out the monitoring based upon optical signal processing. 16. The method according to claim 14, which further comprises carrying out the checking step based upon acoustic signals in the ultrasonic range. 17. A device for handling objects located on a carrier, comprising: a collecting device having a tip configured to hold a collecting medium in a liquid state in the form of a drop by at least one of adhesion and surface tension and to receive objects located on the carrier; a holding device shaped to hold the carrier; and a laser configuration operable to carry out a laser-induced transport process of the objects on the carrier from the carrier to said drop of said collecting medium. 18. The device according to claim 17, further comprising an imaging device operable to produce an image of the carrier. 19. The device according to claim 17, wherein said tip has an opening configured to dispense said drop of said collecting medium. 20. The device according to claim 19, wherein said opening of said tip has an inset having an additional surface to hold said drop of said collecting medium. 21. The device according to claim 17, wherein said collecting device, said holding device, and said laser configuration are configured to handle the objects on the carrier and transport the objects by said laser-induced transport process from the carrier to said liquid collecting medium. 22. A method for handling objects, which comprises: locating an object on a carrier; holding a liquid collecting medium in the form of a drop on an object collecting device by at least one of adhesion and surface tension; transporting the object from the carrier to the liquid collecting medium by separating the object from a mass located on the carrier with laser irradiation; and following the laser-induced transport of the object, transferring the drop of collecting medium with the object to a target location by dispensing the drop of collecting medium. 