The system for identifying zones of proximity between a plurality of digitally simulated objects comprises: (a) first memory (111) for storing data describing the geometry of the objects, (b) an initialization module (120) for creating a population of pions, and (c) a central processor unit (140) comprising at least: (c1) a unit (141) for selecting a percentage of the population of pions to be subjected to combats in pairs, (c2) a comparison and calculation unit (142) for evaluating the quality of each of the pions in each pair of pions subjected to a combat, (c3) a marking unit (143) for identifying in each session of the tournament which of the pions of a pair of pions subjected to a combat has won or lost, (c4) an iteration unit (144) for causing the pions that have been subjected to at least one combat to evolve, in association with at least one operator for producing an exploratory mutation, and at least one redefinition operator, and (c5) an extraction module (145) for retaining only the best pions from the population for determining the zones of proximity between at least two objects.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of identifying zones of proximity between at least first and second digitally simulated objects, the method being characterized in that it comprises the following steps: a) providing data describing a geometry of each of the first and the second digitally simulated objects and storing this data in memory, (b) creating a population consisting of a set of N individuals called pions each defined by a first and a second nucleon themselves defined as points belonging to the respective geometries of each of the first and the second objects, (c) organizing sessions of a tournament involving the N pions of the created population, during each of which sessions a percentage of the population is subject to combats during which, for each pair of pions subjected to a combat, and as a function of an evaluation of quality defined on the basis of an aptitude criterion, it is evaluated which pion has won and which pion has lost, and the winner and the loser are identified by a mark that is different after each session of the tournament, (d) after the tournament, performing: an exploratory mutation of pions that lost during a first session; a replacement of pions that lost during a second session, by crossing randomly chosen pions; and a random redefinition of pions that lost during a third session, (e) considering only a population of winners of the combats for processing the pions to be used to identify zones of proximity between the first and the second objects, (f) executing steps (c), (d) and (e) again repetitively, and (g) extracting geometrical information on demand from an updated configuration of the population of pions, during the repetitive execution. 2. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that during the step of extracting the geometrical information, distances between the identified zones of proximity are evaluated. 3. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that data for identifying zones of space describing the geometry of at least one of the first and the second digitally simulated objects comprises polyhedral representations. 4. A method according to claim 3, characterized in that data for identifying zones of space describing the geometry of at least one of the first and the second digitally simulated objects comprises voxel representations. 5. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that data for identifying zones of space describing the geometry of at least one of the first and the second digitally simulated objects comprises representations by means of parameterized surfaces. 6. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that data for identifying zones of space describing the geometry of at least one of the first and the second digitally simulated objects comprises representations by means of clouds of points. 7. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that the aptitude criterion for evaluating the quality of a pion consists in measuring a distance separating the first and the second nucleons defining that pion, the quality of the pion being inversely proportional to the measured distance. 8. A method according to claim 7, characterized in that the distance measurement constituting the aptitude criterion for evaluating the quality of a pion takes into account a square of the distance separating the first and the second nucleons defining that pion. 9. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that it further comprises, after step (a) of providing data describing the geometry of each of the first and the second digitally simulated objects, the following steps: (a1) creating a connectivity map containing information defining properties of adjacency between geometrical elements within the first and the second objects and storing the information of this connectivity map in memory, (a2) creating a proximity map containing information defining proximity properties between the first and the second objects and storing the information of this proximity map in memory. 10. A method according to claim 9, characterized in that mutating the pions that lost during a session of the tournament to generate exploratory mutations for the pions that lost consists in moving the first and the second nucleons constituting a pion on surfaces of the first and the second objects to which the first and the second nucleons respectively belong. 11. A method according to claim 10, characterized in that data for identifying zones of space describing the geometry of at least one of the first and the second digitally simulated objects comprises polyhedral representations, when mutating a pion that lost during a session of the tournament, to generate exploratory mutations for the pions that lost, at least one of the first and the second nucleons constituting that pion and belonging to one of the first and the second objects represented in polyhedral form is subjected to a succession of discrete facet center to facet center movements, considering the information defining the adjacency properties stored in memory. 12. A method according to claim 10, characterized in that data for identifying zones of space describing the geometry of at least one of the first and the second digitally simulated objects comprises polyhedral representations, when mutating a pion that won during the tournament, at least one of the first and the second nucleons constituting that pion and belonging to one of the first and the second objects represented in a polyhedral form is subjected to a movement on a same facet on a disk having for its center an initial position of that point and for its radius a maximum displacement amplitude that depends on an area of the facet on which the displacement is effected. 13. A method according to claim 10, characterized in that data for identifying zones of space describing the geometry of at least one of the first and the second digitally simulated objects comprises polyhedral representations, when mutating a pion that won during the tournament, at least one of the first and the second nucleons constituting that pion and belonging to one of the first and the second objects represented in a polyhedral form is subjected to a movement in a wormhole form from one vertex of one facet to a nearby vertex of another facet that is not necessarily connected, considering the information defining the proximity properties stored in memory. 14. A method according to claim 10, characterized in that data for identifying zones of space describing the geometry of at least one of the first and the second digitally simulated objects comprises polyhedral representations, when mutating a pion that won during the tournament, the first and the second nucleons constituting that pion and respectively belonging to the first and the second objects each represented in a polyhedral form with triangular facets are positioned so that they delimit an edge defining a minimum distance between two triangular facets to which these first and second nucleons respectively belong. 15. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that mutating the pions that lost during a session of the tournament to generate exploratory mutations for the pions that lost consists in moving the first and the second nucleons constituting a pion on the surfaces of the first and the second objects to which the first and the second nucleons respectively belong. 16. A method according to claim 1, characterized in that during a session of the tournament for generating replacements for the pions that lost, when replacing a pion that lost by crossing randomly chosen pions, so as to define a new pion resulting from crossing first and second randomly chosen pions, it is considered that the new pion consists of the first nucleon of the first randomly chosen pion and the second nucleon of the second randomly chosen pion. 17. A method according to claim 1, applied to a set of P digitally simulated objects with P.gtoreq.2, the method being characterized in that it comprises the following steps: (a) providing data describing a geometry of each of the P graphically simulated objects, (b) creating a population consisting of a set of N individuals called pions each defined by a first and a second nucleon, themselves defined as points belonging to the respective geometries of one of the P objects and another of the P objects, (c) organizing sessions of a tournament involving the N pions of the created population, during each of which sessions a percentage of the population is subject to combats during which, for each pair of pions subjected to a combat, and as a function of an evaluation of quality defined on the basis of an aptitude criterion, it is evaluated which pion has won and which pion has lost, and the winner and the loser are identified by a mark that is different after each session of the tournament, (d) after the tournament, performing : an exploratory mutation of pions that lost during a first session, a replacement of pions that lost during a second session, by crossing randomly chosen pions; and a random redefinition of pions that lost during a third session, (e) considering only a population of the winners of the combats for processing the pions to be used to identify zones of proximity between two of the P digitally simulated objects, (f) executing steps (c), (d), and e) again repetitively, and (g) extracting geometrical information on demand from an updated configuration of the population of pions, during the repetitive execution. 18. A method according to claim 17, characterized in that data for identifying zones of space describing the geometry of the P digital simulated objects comprise polyhedral representations and in that the method further comprises, after step (a) of providing data describing the geometry of each of the P digitally simulated objects, the following steps: (a1) creating a connectivity map containing information defining properties of adjacency between geometrical elements within each of the P objects and storing the information of this connectivity map in memory, (a2) creating a proximity map containing information defining proximity properties between the one of the P objects and another of the P objects and storing the information of this proximity map in memory. 19. A system for identifying zones of proximity between a number P of digitally simulated objects with P.gtoreq.2, the system being characterized in that it comprises: (a) first memory means for storing data describing the geometry of each of the P objects, (b) an initialization module for creating a population consisting of a set of N individuals called pions each defined by first and second nucleons, themselves defined as points respectively belonging to the geometries of one of the P objects and another of the P objects, (c) a central processor unit comprising at least: (c1) means for selecting a percentage of the population of the N pions to be subjected to combats two by two during a session of a tournament, (c2) comparison and calculation means for evaluating during a session of a tournament, for each pair of pions subjected to a combat, a quality of each of the pions of the pair of pions on the basis of an aptitude criterion, (c3) marking means for identifying in each session of the tournament which of the pions of a pair of pions subjected to a combat won and which of the pions of said pair of pions subjected to a combat lost, (c4) iteration means for producing an evolution of the pions that have been subjected to at least one combat, the iteration means being associated at least with an operator for exploratory mutation of pions that lost during a first session of the tournament, an operator for replacement of pions that lost during a second session of the tournament by crossing pions selected randomly, and an operator for redefinition of pions that lost during a third session of the tournament, and (c5) an extraction module for retaining for identification of the zones of proximity between at least two of the P objects only best pions from the population as a function of the aptitude criterion. 20. A system according to claim 19, characterized in that it further comprises: (a1) second memory means for storing information representing a connectivity map and defining properties of adjacency between geometrical elements within each of the P objects, (a2) third memory means for storing information representing a proximity map and defining proximity properties between the one of the P objects and another of the P objects. 21. A system according to claim 20, characterized in that: it further comprises a display screen for displaying the digitally simulated objects; it further comprises a haptic interface; and the central processor unit comprises a set of computation units operating in parallel. 22. A system according to claim 19, characterized in that it further comprises a display screen for displaying the digitally simulated objects. 23. A system according to claim 22, characterized in that it further comprises a haptic interface. 24. A system according to claim 19, characterized in that the central processor unit comprises a set of computation units operating in parallel. 