A method is provided for performing a total knee arthroplasty. The method includes making a primary incision near a knee joint of a patient and resecting medial and lateral condyles of the femur of the leg to create at least one femoral cut surface. The resecting step is performed without dislocating the knee joint. The method also includes balancing various ligament tensions to obtain desired tension and moving a femoral component of a total knee implant through the primary incision. The method further includes positioning the femoral component with respect to the at least one femoral cut surface.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of treating a damaged or diseased portion of an articular surface of a bone comprising: determining an extent of the damaged or diseased portion of the articular surface of the bone; removing the damaged or diseased portion of the articular surface to form a recess having a size determined by the extent of the damaged or diseased portion of the articular surface; and inlaying an implant into the recess, the implant having an outer surface configured and dimensioned to form a continuation and replacement of the portion of the articular surface on the bone when implanted, and capable of bearing weight placed upon the articular surface within which the implant is implanted, an inner surface including a porous structure operative to contact bone and to promote tissue growth into or onto the porous structure of bone of the patient, thereby forming a fixation between the implant and the bone of the patient, the outer surface and inner surface transferring a weight placed upon the articular surface to bone beneath the articular surface, wherein the implant includes a metal material. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of removing the damaged or diseased portion of the articular surface includes cutting away the damaged or diseased portion of the articular surface with a cutting tool. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the cutting tool is a milling device. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of cutting away the damaged or diseased portion of the articular surface includes controlling a depth of cut in the bone with a guide which engages the cutting tool. 5. The method of claim 4 further including the steps of: providing a plurality of guides, each of the guides having a different guide surface configuration at least one of which is sized and dimensioned to correspond to an extent of the damaged or diseased portion of the articular surface. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the bone is a femur. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the damaged or diseased portion is located on a distal end of the femur. 8. The method of claim 4 wherein the bone is a tibia. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the damaged or diseased portion is located on a proximal end of the tibia. 10. The method of claim 2 further including the step of connecting cutting tool with a robot, said step of cutting away the damaged or diseased portion of the articular surface includes moving the cutting tool relative to the bone under the influence of force transmitted to the cutting tool from the robot. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein an adhesive is used to secure the implant to the bone. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the metal material is a foam metal material selected from the group consisting of: chromium, titanium, tantalum, and alloys thereof. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein a cutting guide having a cutting guide surface is used to remove the damaged or diseased portion of the articular surface, and wherein the cutting guide is custom fabricated based on imaging information of the first bone. 14. A method of replacing a portion of an articular surface of a first bone, comprising: moving a cutting tool into engagement with the articular surface on the first bone which cooperates with an articular surface on a second bone; cutting away the portion of the articular surface on the first bone with the cutting tool to form a recess in the first bone; and positioning an implant in the recess in the first bone, wherein the implant includes an outer layer including cartilage or a cartilage growth promoting material, the outer layer having an outer surface configured and dimensioned to correspond to the recess, thereby forming a continuation of the articular surface of the first bone when the implant is implanted in the recess, and a base layer, supporting the outer layer, and having an inner surface configured and dimensioned to engage bone tissue when inserted in the recess, the inner surface further including a bone growth promoting substance. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the first bone is the femur. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the second bone is the tibia. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the implant includes a foam metal material. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the cartilage growth promoting material includes cells. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein the bone growth promoting material is located on a first surface of the implant. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the cartilage growth promoting material is located on a second surface of the implant. 21. The method of claim 17 wherein at least a portion of the implant includes a polymer coating. 22. The method of claim 17 wherein the foam metal material is selected from the group consisting of: chromium, titanium, tantalum, and alloys thereof. 23. A method for therapeutic treatment of a joint, the method comprising: removing a portion of an articulating surface of the joint to form a recess; insetting at least a portion of an implant having an articulating load bearing surface replacement, the implant sized and dimensioned to be inset into the recess, and further including a bone growth promoting body operative to support said load bearing surface replacement, said growth promoting body positionable between said surface replacement and bone tissue of the joint, said growth promoting body including a material along a region of contact between said growth promoting body and the bone tissue of the joint, the material operative to promote bone growth to stabilize the implant, whereby a load applied to the surface replacement is transferred to the bone tissue of the joint through said material. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein said bone growth promoting body includes a material that promotes osteoinduction. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the implant inset is sized and shaped to be inset into a recess created in tissue of the joint, the joint selected from the group consisting of: toe, ankle, knee, hip, spine, shoulder, elbow, wrist, and finger. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the surface replacement inset is sized substantially smaller than the entire articulating surface of a joint compartment into which the implant is inset. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein the articulating load bearing surface replacement inset includes a polymer coating. 28. The method of claim 23, wherein the articulating load bearing surface replacement inset includes living tissue. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the living tissue included in the surface replacement inset is cartilage. 30. The method of claim 23, wherein the articulating load bearing surface replacement inset includes a smooth metallic surface. 31. The method of claim 23, wherein the material operative to promote bone growth is a foam metal material having a porous structure. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the foam metal material is impregnated with a bone growth promoting material or a healing agent. 33. The method of claim 31, wherein the foam metal material is selected from the group consisting of: chromium, titanium, tantalum, zirconium, and aluminum. 