A radiation beam analyzer for measuring the distribution and intensity of radiation produced by a CyberKnife.RTM.. The analyzer employs a relative small tank of water into which a sensor is placed. The distance between the sensor and the radiation source is not varied. The tank of water is raised and lowered relative to the sensor to simulate the location of a malady within a patient's body. This movement of the tank permits the radiation from the CyberKnife.RTM. to be properly calibrated and adjusted for a proper treatment of a malady in a patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A radiation beam analyzer for detecting radiation dosimetry of a beam emitted along an axis from a radiotherapy treatment device comprising: a dynamic phantom body formed of a material having a density proximal that of a human body; a tank containing said dynamic phantom body; at least one dosimetry probe constructed and arranged to sense photons and electrons, said at least one dosimeetry probe positioned within said dynamic phantom body; a carriage supporting said tank and said dynamic phantom body; a guideway, said carriage secured to said guideway; a first mechanism incrementally moving said carriage, said tank and said dynamic phantom body relative to said guideway in a X-axis, a Y-axis and a Z-axis, said X-axis, Y-axis and Z-axis are substantially orthogonal to each other; a second mechanism incrementally moving said at least one dosimetry probe within said dynamic body relative to said tank; and a controller connected to and operating said first and said second mechanisms simultaneously to move both said tank and said at least one dosimetry probe relative to each other to maintain the distance between a radiation source and the axis of a beam emitted from the radiation source to said at least one dosimetry probe constant; whereby movement of said dynamic phantom body through a series of locations is carried out so as to provide sufficient data to determine the proper dose of radiation required for radiotherapy treatment. 2. The radiation scanning system of claim 1 wherein said dosimetry probe is an ion chamber. 3. The radiation scanning system of claim 1 wherein said dynamic phantom body includes a tank made from an acrylic material. 4. The radiation scanning system of claim 1 wherein said movement is isocentric. 5. The radiation scanning system of claim 1 wherein said radiotherapy treatment device is a linear accelerator. 6. A method of calibrating a radiotherapy treatment device comprising: providing a source of radiation along an axis; providing a dynamic phantom body formed of a material having a density proximally that of a human body; providing a tank containing said dynamic phantom body; providing at least one dosimetry probe constructed and arranged to sense photons and electrons; positioning said at least one dosimetry probe within said dynamic phantom body; supporting said dynamic phantom body and said tank on a carriage; securing said carriage to a guideway; incrementally moving said carriage, said tank and said dynamic phantom body relative to said guideway in a X-axis, a Y-axis and a Z-axis, said X-axis, said Y-axis and said Z-axis are substantially orthogonal to each other; incrementally moving said at least one dosimetry probe with in said dynamic body relative to said tank; and employing a controller to simultaneously move both said tank and said at least one dosimetry probe relative to each other to maintain the distance between a radiation source and the axis of a beam emitted from the radiation source to said at least one dosimetry probe constant; whereby movement of said dynamic phantom body through a series of locations is carried out so as to provide sufficient data to determine the proper dose of radiation required for radiotherapy treatment. 