A system for producing sausage-shaped products that includes a filling machine for filling a tubular casing with viscous or granular stuff, a clipping machine for dividing the filled tubular casing into sausage-shaped products and closing the sausage-shaped products by closing means; and a transportation device for discharging the sausage-shaped products out of the clipping machine and transporting the sausage-shaped products along a transport path for storing them on rod-like elements, being positioned in an automatic hanging line for accommodating the rod-like elements; wherein the transport path extends from the clipping machine to the distal end of said smoking rod.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for producing sausage-shaped products, comprising: a filling machine for filling a tubular casing with viscous or granular stuff, in particular sausage meat; a clipping machine for dividing the filled tubular casing into sausage-shaped products and closing the sausage-shaped products by closing means; a transportation device for discharging the sausage-shaped products out of the clipping machine and transporting the sausage-shaped products along a transport path for storing them on rod-like elements, in particular smoking rods, being positioned in an automatic hanging line for accommodating the rod-like elements, wherein the transport path extends from the clipping machine to the distal end of said smoking rod, and a weighing device for sensing the weight of at least one of the sausage-shaped products, wherein the weighing device is positioned along the transport path of sausage-shaped products for receiving a sausage-shaped product to be weighed and wherein the weighing device is adapted to transfer the weighed sausage-shaped product to the rod-like element being positioned in the automatic hanging line. 2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the weighing device is positioned at the end of the transport path of sausage-shaped products. 3. The system according to claim 1 further comprising: a drive for linearly movement of the weighing device between a weighing position in which at least one sausage-shaped product is positioned on the weighing device, and a retracted position in which no sausage-shaped product is positioned on the weighing device. 4. The system according to claim 3 further comprising: a piston-cylinder-assembly which allows the linear movement of the weighing device between the weighing position and the retracted position. 5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the weighing device comprises a stud-like projection on which the at least one sausage-shaped product is positioned for the weighing process. 6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the stud-like projection comprises a tapered end facilitating the transfer of the sausage-shaped product on the weighing device. 7. The system according to claim 1 further comprising: a deflector urging the at least one weighed sausage-shaped product from the weighing device after the weighing process. 8. A method for controlling a system for producing sausage-shaped product, with the steps of: providing a tubular casing; filling said tubular casing with viscous or granular stuff, in particular sausage meat; dividing the filled tubular casing into sausage-shaped products and closing the sausage-shaped products by closing means in a clipping machine; discharging at least one sausage-shaped product out of the clipping machine by a transportation device and transporting the sausage-shaped products along a transport path for storing them on rod-like elements, in particular smoking rods, being positioned in an automatic hanging line for accommodating the rod-like elements, wherein the transport path extends from the clipping machine to the distal end of said smoking rod, and sensing the weight of at least one of the sausage-shaped products using a weighing device which is positioned along the transport path of sausage-shaped products for receiving a sausage-shaped product to be weighed and transferring the weighed sausage-shaped product to the rod-like element being positioned in the automatic hanging line. 9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the weighing device is linearly moved between a weighing position in which at least one sausage-shaped product is positioned on the weighing device and a retracted position in which no sausage-shaped product is positioned on the weighing device. 10. The method according to claim 8, wherein the at least one sausage-shaped product is urged from the weighing device onto the rod-like element when the weighing device is moved from the weighing position into the retracted position. 11. The method according to claim 8, wherein the at least one weighed sausage-shaped product is urged from the weighing device onto the rod-like element by a deflector. 12. The method according to claim 8, wherein the weight of the at least one sausage-shaped product is sensed by a sensing element being part of the weighing device. 13. The method according to claim 8, wherein the sum of weights of all sausage-shaped products stored on the rod-like element is calculated on the basis of the weight of the sensed weight of the at least one sausage-shaped product. 14. The method according to claim 8, wherein a tendency for the development of the weight of the sausage-shaped products is derived on the basis of the weight of a single sausage-shaped product. 