A method of printing comprising the steps of: (i) operatively positioning a swipe printer relative to a surface and swiping the printer across the surface; (ii) printing, during the swipe, successive parts of a position-coding pattern onto the surface; (iii) printing, during the swipe, successive parts of a graphic image onto the surface, the position-coding pattern and the graphic image being superimposed; (iv) imaging, during the swipe, portions of the surface on which the printhead has printed the parts of the position-coding pattern; (v) determining, during the swipe, absolute positions of the printhead using imaged parts of the position-coding pattern; and (vi) using the absolute positions to control, during the swipe, printing of the position-coding pattern and the graphic image.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of printing comprising the steps of: (i) operatively positioning a swipe printer relative to a surface and swiping the printer across the surface; (ii) printing, during said swipe, successive parts of a position-coding pattern as a trail onto said surface; (iii) printing, during said swipe, successive parts of a graphic image onto the surface, said position-coding pattern and said graphic image being superimposed; (iv) imaging, during said swipe and using a first image sensor, portions of said surface on which said printhead has printed said trail of the position-coding pattern; (v) determining, during said swipe, absolute positions of the printhead using imaged parts of the position-coding pattern; and (vi) using the absolute positions to control, during said swipe, printing of the position-coding pattern and the graphic image, wherein the first image sensor is positioned downstream of said printhead relative to a swipe direction. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said printhead prints the graphic image and the position-coding pattern substantially simultaneously onto said surface. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said surface is blank in step (i), and wherein an initial position of said swipe printer provides a reference point for said position-coding pattern. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said reference point is an origin. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said origin is based on an assumed initial swipe direction in step (i). 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said origin is a top-left corner of the position-coding pattern, and said initial swipe direction is a left-to-right swipe or a top-to-down swipe. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein step (i) further comprises the sub-steps of: imaging part of a position-coding pattern printed during a previous swipe of the printer; and determining an absolute position of the printhead, wherein said imaged part of the position-coding pattern is contained in an outer perimeter of the position-coding pattern printed during the previous swipe. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said swiping comprises swiping outwardly from said outer perimeter. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said graphic image is printed with at least one first ink and said position-coding pattern is printed with a second ink. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said second ink is an infrared-absorbing ink. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said printer is configured for unidirectional swiping. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said printer comprises a first image sensor for imaging said position-coding pattern, said first image sensor being positioned downstream of a printhead, wherein a swipe direction is defined as upstream. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: sensing relative motion of the printer during the swipe to generate relative motion data; and using the sensed relative motion together with said absolute positions to control printing of the position-coding pattern and the graphic image. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: sensing an orientation of the printer relative to the position-coding pattern; using the orientation together with said absolute positions to control printing of the position-coding pattern and the graphic image. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: accessing an impression identity for said graphic image; associating said impression identity with said graphic image; generating association data indicating an association between the impression identity, the absolute positions and the graphic image; and communicating said association data to a computer system. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the printed position-coding pattern further identifies said impression identity. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein said interactive element is selected from the group comprising: a hyperlink, an input field and a button. 18. The method of claim 15, wherein said association data enables said computer system to associate one or more zones of the graphic image with a corresponding interactive element. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein said impression identity is accessed from any one of: a memory in said printer, said memory storing a plurality of impression identities; and a computer system communicating with said printer. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein said printer is contained in a mobile phone or personal digital assistant. 