Disclosed herein is a device for measuring fluid dispense volumes including one or more wells adapted to receive a fluid; a tube having an internal passageway fluidly coupled to the one or more wells, wherein fluid in the wells passes into the internal passageway via capillary action to form a fluid column having a meniscus spaced from the wells; and a scale coupled to the tube, the scale calibrated to provide an indication of the volume of the fluid based upon the location of the meniscus in the fluid passageway.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A device for measuring fluid dispense volumes, comprising two or more wells adapted to receive a fluid, each one of said two or more wells being fluidly coupled to a single tube having an internal passageway, said single tube being further coupled to a graduated scale wherein fluid in each one of said two or more wells passes into said internal passageway via capillary action and travels a distance to form a fluid column having a meniscus spaced from the well, said meniscus having a location intermediate the ends of said tube; and the location of the meniscus measured against the graduated scale indicates the distance traveled by the fluid, said distance being a direct measure of the fluid volume in the well. 2. The device of claim 1, further comprising a support structure that supports the tube fluidly coupled to each one of the two or more wells. 3. The device of claim 2, wherein the support structure is removably received and secured in a sample carrier of a liquid handling system. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein the sample carrier is adapted to receive a standardized microtiter plate. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the two or more wells are fluidly coupled to a dispensing passageway of a liquid handling system. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein said two or more wells are spaced according to the spacing of a standardized microtiter plate. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the two or more wells has at least a partial spherical-shape. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the two or more wells has a rounded shape. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the two or more wells has a V-shape. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the coupling between each one of said two or more wells and the tube coupled thereto forms an angle of at least about 90 degrees from vertical. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein the coupling between each one of said two or more wells and the tube coupled thereto forms an angle of at least about 85 degrees from vertical. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the coupling between each one of said two or more wells and the tube coupled thereto forms an angle of at least about 80 degrees from vertical. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein the coupling between each one of said two or more wells and the tube coupled thereto forms an angle of between about 0 degrees and about 90 degrees from vertical. 14. The device of claim 1, further comprising: (i) a support structure that supports the tube fluidly coupled to each one of the two or more wells; and (ii) a seal member that provides a seal between the tube and the support structure. 15. The device of claim 14, wherein the seal member is an o-ring. 