A method of characterizing the biological activity of a candidate compound may include exposing cells to the candidate compound, and then exposing the cells to a repetitive application of electric fields so as to set the transmembrane potential to a level corresponding to a pre-selected voltage dependent state of a target ion channel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of high throughput assaying ion channel activity for testing the effect of one or more candidate compounds on biological cells, the method comprising: expressing a selected target ion channel in said cells; expressing a selected counter ion channel in said cells; placing said cells, solvet, voltage sensitive dyes for detecting transmembrane potential changes when said counter ion channels are open said target ion channels are blocked, and at least one candidate compound in each of a plurality of wells of a multiwell plate; repetitively exposing said at least one cell to a plurality of electric field pulses wherein said electric fields are produced with extracellular electrodes positioned in the solvent in each of said plurality of wells so as to cause current flow in opposite directions through cell membranes if said target ion channels are open and said counter ion channels are open; and detecting open counter ion channels and blocked target ion channels by monitoring the transmembrane potential of said cells, wherein said detecting comprises monitoring, without using a patch clamp, changes in the transmembrane potential of cells in each of said plurality of wells by monitoring emission from said voltage sensitive dyes when said target ion channels are blocked and said counter ion channels are open to test the effect of said one or more candidate compounds on said cells in a parallel assay high throughput manner. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said target ion channel comprises a ligand gated ion channel, and said counter ion channel comprises a voltage gated ion channel. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said counter ion channel comprises a sodium channel, and said target ion channel comprises a potassium channel. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said pulses have a maximum amplitude of less than approximately 90 V/cm, wherein said pulses are applied at a rate of at least about 1 per second, and wherein the total duration of each pulse is at least about 1 millisecond. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said maximum amplitude is approximately 20 to 40 V/cm. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein said pulse duration is approximately 2 to 10 milliseconds per phase. 7. The method of Claim 4, wherein said pulses are applied at a rate of approximately 20 to 100 pulses per second. 