A framed device in the form of a bridge for fixing a number of vertebrae together into positions which are uniquely defined relative to the bridge, but which can move with the spine relative to the external environment. The fixation generated by such a bridge is especially useful in Computer Assisted Surgery procedures, either using manual navigation and a tracking system to follow the position of the surgeon's tools relative to the operated vertebrae, or by using a pre-programmed robot mounted on the bridge itself to perform the surgery. Alternative embodiments of the bridge may be used either for performing surgery in one procedure on a number of vertebrae of the spine, or as a reference frame for performing surgery at different locations along the spine, while providing an alignment reference along major lengths or along all of the spine.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of performing surgery on the vertebrae of the spine of a subject, said method comprising: providing a spinal bridge, attaching said spinal bridge at least one end to a first vertebrae in the spine of the subject, said spinal bridge being free to follow movement of the spine of the subject; mounting a surgical robot on said bridge; and performing a surgical procedure on at least said first vertebra, said method being such that movement of the spine does not affect the position of said robot relative to said at least first vertebra, enabling the performance of said surgical procedure. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of accommodating said surgical robot at a number of predetermined locations adapted for positioning said robot on said bridge, and performing said surgery with said robot on a plurality of said vertebrae in a single procedure. 3. A method according to claim 2 and wherein said robot can perform said surgical procedures on a plurality of said vertebrae with a single registration process. 4. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of mounting said robot on a moveable slide on said bridge, such that adjustment of the position of said slide on said bridge enables surgery to be performed on a plurality of vertebrae in a single procedure. 5. A method according to claim 4 and wherein said robot can perform said surgical procedures on a plurality of said vertebrae with a single registration process. 6. A method according to claim 1 and wherein said bridge is also attached to any of a second vertebra of the subject's spine, the subject's skull and the subject's pelvic bone. 7. A method according to claim 1 and wherein said step of attaching said spinal bridge to a first vertebrae is performed by means of either of a bone clamp and at least one K-wire. 8. A method according to claim 1, further comprising utilizing a navigational position probe associated with a computer assisted surgery system, such that the position of said bridge and of said first vertebra are known to said system. 