A device for storing and dispensing endless machining belts for a robotic installation is disclosed. The device includes a support rotating about a vertical axis and having radial arms. Each arm is equipped with means for locating a machining belt, and means for controlling stepwise rotation of the rotating support, in order to bring each arm in turn to a position where the belt may be fitted onto a robot arm.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A device for storing and dispensing endless machining belts for a robotic installation, comprising: means for supporting a plurality of machining belts and means for locating the belts on the supporting means, the supporting and locating means comprise a support rotating about a vertical axis and having radial arms, each arm equipped with means for locating a machining belt; and means for controlling the stepwise rotation of the rotating support, in order to bring each arm in turn to a position where the belt may be fitted onto a robot arm. 2. The device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the locating means comprise retractable pins guided in housings in the arms and engaged in the ends of the belts, and return springs which urge the pins toward a belt holding position. 3. The device as claimed in claim 2, wherein top ends of the belt locating pins form contact surfaces that are pushed by bottom ends of two pulleys of a robot to depress the pins and engage the belt on the pulleys of the robot. 4. The device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the belt is slightly tensioned when positioned on the retractable pins. 5. The device as claimed in claim 2, wherein each radial arm comprises an elongate plate supporting the edges of the belt and comprising orifices at its ends for the locating pins to pass through. 6. The device as claimed in claim 5, wherein the plate comprises an elongate slot extending between the two edges of the belt, for the descent of part of the robot. 7. The device as claimed in claim 1, comprising twelve radial arms. 8. The device as claimed in claim 1, comprising at least one sensor for detecting the presence of machining belts on the radial arms. 