The invention relates to a printhead assembly. The assembly includes a printhead module having a plurality of modular printhead tiles each tile having a plurality of micro-electromechanical nozzle assemblies for operatively printing on a printing medium. Also included are printhead controller integrated circuits for controlling operation of the printhead tiles. The printhead assembly further includes a number of electrical connector assemblies for operatively connecting the printhead tiles. Each tile is mounted to a modular support defining a raised portion and a recessed portion at an end thereof, the tile having electrical connecting strips which overlie the respective recessed portions. Each connector assembly includes a connecting member having a series of parallel spaced conducting strips, said member shaped and configured for fitment into a cavity defined by the raised and recessed portions of two abutting supports to connect the connecting strips of two tiles via said conducting strips.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: a printhead module having a plurality of modular printhead tiles, each tile having a first set of connection strips at one end and a second set of connection strips at a second end; a plurality of electrical connector assemblies for connecting the printhead tiles, each electrical connector assembly having a connecting member for bridging the first set of connection strips of one printhead tile with the second set of connection strips of an adjacent printhead tile; and a plurality of modular supports for each receiving a printhead tile, each modular support defining a first raised portion and a first recessed portion at one end and a second raised portion and a second recessed portion at a second end, the plurality of modular supports configured to abut each other to form a cavity portion defined by the first and second recessed portions of two adjacent modular supports bounded by respectively first and second raised portions, wherein each printhead tile is received in a modular support such that the first set of electrical connection strips overlaps the first raised portion of the modular support, and the second set of electrical connection strips overlaps the second raised portion of the modular support, and each electrical connector assembly is received in a cavity portion such that the connecting member is in electrical contact with a first set of electrical connection strips overlapping the first raised portion and in electrical contact with a second set of electrical connection strips of the second raised portion. 2. The printhead assembly of claim 1, further comprising a ducting assembly having a laminated stack of layers, each layer of the stack having a number of apertures which, when the layers are stacked, provides ducts whereby ink is able to flow from an ink reservoir to the nozzle assemblies. 3. The printhead assembly of claim 2, wherein a curable resin is used as a seal between the ducting assembly and the printhead tiles. 4. The printhead assembly of claim 1, wherein each modular printhead tile has male and female end portions shaped and configured to complementarily receive a respective end portion of another printhead tile. 5. The connector assembly of claim 1, wherein the connecting member is a rectangular block having the series of conducting strips on each surface thereof. 6. The connector assembly of claim 1, wherein the connecting member is formed of a strip of silicone rubber printed to provide sequentially spaced conductive and non-conductive material strips. 7. The connector assembly of claim 1, wherein the conducting strips of the connecting member are provided in a 2:1 relationship with the connecting strips of the printhead tiles. 