Provided is print engine controller of a printhead assembly having a plurality of printhead modules. The controller includes a memory buffer to receive rasterized page data from a computer system, a page image expander for expanding the page data to retrieve page images, and dithering means for dithering a continuous tone ("contone") layer over the page data. The controller also includes a compositor for compositing a black bi-level layer of the contone layer, rendering means for rendering infra-red tags over the contone layer, and an output driving the printhead modules to print the composited page data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A print engine controller of a printhead assembly having a plurality of printhead modules, said controller comprising a plurality of integrated circuits interconnected with connecting members placed in cavities formed by adjacently arranged supports individually supporting the integrated circuits, each integrated circuit comprising: a memory buffer to receive rasterized page data from a computer system; a page image expander for expanding the page data to retrieve page images; dithering means for dithering a continuous tone ("contone") layer over the page data; a compositor for compositing a black bi-level layer of the contone layer; rendering means for rendering infra-red tags over the contone layer; and an output driving the printhead modules to print the composited page data. 2. The print engine controller of claim 1, wherein the rendering means is configured to encode bi-level IR tag data from the page data. 3. The print engine controller of claim 1, wherein the page expander is configured to expand a JPEG-compressed contone CMYK layer, a Group 4 Fax-compressed bi-level dither matrix selection map, and a Group 4 Fax-compressed bi-level black layer, all in parallel. 4. The print engine controller of claim 3, which is configured to generate a fixative layer at each page data dot position wherever there is a need in any C, M, Y, K, or IR channels of page data. 5. The print engine controller of claim 3, wherein the output facilitates the printing of the bi-level CMYK+IR data through the printhead assembly. 6. The print engine controller of claim 3, wherein the dithering means is configured to dither the contone CMYK layer using a dither matrix selected by a dither matrix select map. 7. The print engine controller of claim 6, wherein the compositor is configured to composite the bi-level black layer over a resulting bi-level K layer and add an IR layer to the page data. 