The invention relates to an apparatus for cutting free of at least a part of a tenderloin in a suspended half-carcass. The apparatus comprises a fixture (1) having a pubic bone catch (2) for positioning and support of the half-carcass by the pubic bone thereof. Further the apparatus comprises a cutting device (7) having a sharp edge (9) curving transversely to the edge (9), and a moving device for the cutting device (7) for moving the cutting device (7) with the sharp edge (9) foremost during cutting free of at least a part of the tenderloin in a half-carcass positioned in the pubic bone catch. Moreover, the invention relates to a fixture for a half-carcass or a hindquarters thereof, a pubic bone catch (2) for use in the above apparatus, a cutting device, and a method for cutting free of at least a part of a tenderloin in a suspended half-carcass.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Apparatus for cutting free of at least a part of a tenderloin in a suspended half-carcass, wherein the apparatus comprises a fixture (1) having a pubic bone catch (2) for positioning and supporting the half-carcass by the pubic bone thereof, and the apparatus further comprising a cutting device (7) having a curvilinear sharp edge (9), and an industrial robot including a manipulator for moving the cutting device (7) with the sharp edge (9) foremost during cutting free of at least a part of the tenderloin in a half-carcass positioned and supported by the pubic bone catch. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said pubic bone catch (2) comprises an upper sharp edge (3) with a slope down towards an opposite, upward edge (4) and that the apparatus comprises a lifting device for lifting the pubic bone catch (2) to a predetermined, supporting position or a lowering device for lowering a half-carcass for support of a pubic bone thereof on the pubic bone catch (2). 3. Apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the cutting device (7) comprises a hollow cylinder with an inner surface and an outer surface, and with the sharp edge (9) at one end (8), which end (8) can be obliquely cut and have sharp edges (9) on the oblique cuts. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the sharp edge (9) has a position in extension of either the inner or outer surface of the cylinder, and that this position of the sharp edge (9) can be varied at different parts of the oblique cuts. 5. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the manipulator of the industrial robot is adapted for moving the cutting device (7) in a predetermined path and direction relative to the pubic bone catch (2), so that the sharp edge (9) cuts at the transition between the half-carcass and the tenderloin in the splitting plane of the carcass. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the cutting device is connected to a movable part of the manipulator, and the path and direction of movement of the cutting device relative to the pubic bone catch/fixture is programmed into the control unit of the manipulator. 7. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the moving device is positioned at the side of the fixture intended for introduction of the half-carcass in the fixture. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the fixture (1) comprises an upper displacement device (5), adapted for fixing an upper part of the half-carcass between the upper displacement device (5) and the pubic bone catch (2) by mechanical pressure. 9. Apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the upper displacement device (5) comprises an abutment plate and that said pubic bone catch (2) comprises means for moving the pubic bone catch (2) against the abutment plate to a predetermined position. 10. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the fixture (1) further comprises a lower fixation device (6), engaging with the spine of the half-carcass. 11. Apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a fixture for two half-carcasses, suspended in gambrels, which fixture has a pubic bone catch for each half-carcass. 12. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the fixture (1) is arranged to be movable between a first position, corresponding mainly to the course of the conveyor for suspended half-carcasses, and a second position, in which it is displaced in direction of the cutting device (7). 13. Pubic bone catch (2) for use in the apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an upper sharp edge (3) having a slope down towards an opposite upward edge (4). 14. Fixture for a half-carcass or a hindquarter thereof, said fixture comprising a pubic bone catch for positioning and support of the half-carcass by the pubic bone thereof, wherein the pubic bone catch comprises an upper sharp edge (3) having a slope down towards an opposite, upward edge (4). 15. Pubic bone catch (2) for use in the fixture according to claim 14, further comprising an upper edge (3) having a slope down towards an opposite upward edge (4). 16. Pubic bone catch (2) of claim 15, wherein the upper edge is a sharp edge. 17. Method for cutting free of at least a part of a tenderloin in a suspended half-carcass, including: bringing the half-carcass into contact with a pubic bone catch (2) in a fixture for the half-carcass; performing at least a relative vertical movement between the half-carcass and the pubic bone catch (2), so that the underside of the pubic bone and the top side of the pubic bone catch (2) comes into contact with each other and the pubic bone comes into a recess in the pubic bone catch (2), whereby the half-carcass is positioned; and moving a cutting device (7) having a curvilinear sharp edge (9) using an industrial robot including a manipulator, with the sharp edge foremost during cutting free of at least a part of the tenderloin. 18. Method according to claim 17, including moving the cutting device (7) in a predetermined path and direction relative to the pubic bone catch, so that the sharp edge (9) cuts in at the transition between the half-carcass and the tenderloin in the splitting plane of the carcass. 19. Method according to claim 17, wherein cutting free of the tenderloin is performed by advancing the cutting device (7) at an angle upwards over the head of the tenderloin, rotating the cutting device (7) so that he head of the tenderloin is cut free, moving the cutting device (7) to a downward-facing position, and moving the cutting device (7) in the downward-facing position along the tenderloin. 20. Method according to claim 19, wherein after moving the cutting device in the downward-facing position along the tenderloin, activating a sinew cutter, so that the tenderloin is completely cut free over a substantial distance along a spine of the half-carcass. 21. Method according to claim 17, wherein the method further comprises a step after the positioning and before the cutting free, in which the carcass is fixed by use of one or more device(s) (5, 6). 22. Method according to claim 17, wherein the method further comprises a step after cutting free of a part of the tenderloin, in which the tenderloin is automatically pulled off and transported away. 23. Method for positioning a half-carcass, including: bringing the half-carcass into contact with a pubic bone catch having a predetermined position; and performing at least a relative movement in the lengthwise direction of the half-carcass between the half-carcass and the pubic bone catch, so that the pubic bone and the pubic bone catch come into contact with each other and the pubic bone comes into rest in a recess in the pubic bone catch, whereby the half-carcass is positioned. 24. Method according to claim 23, wherein in bringing the half-carcass into contact with the pubic bone catch, the half-carcass is hanging from its hind leg, the pubic bone catch having an upper, sharp edge sloping down towards an opposite, upward edge. 25. Method for performing a slaughter operation on an anatomic part of a suspended half-carcass, where the half-carcass is positioned in its lengthwise direction by bringing its pubic bone into contact with a pubic bone catch having a predetermined position, and wherein the position of the anatomic part is predicted from the position of the pubic bone catch. 26. Method according to claim 25, where the slaughter operation is performed by an industrial robot including a manipulator, and where the industrial robot is programmed with paths of movement calculated relative to the predicted position of the anatomic part. 27. Method according to claim 25, wherein the half-carcass is hanging from its hind leg, and wherein the pubic bone catch has an upper, sharp edge sloping down towards an opposite, upward edge. 