A mobile brain-based device (BBD) includes a mobile platform with sensors and effectors, which is guided by a simulated nervous system that is an analogue of the cerebellar areas of the brain used for predictive motor control to determine interaction with a real-world environment. The simulated nervous system has neural areas including precerebellum nuclei (PN), Purkinje cells (PC), deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) and an inferior olive (IO) for predicting turn and velocity control of the BBD during movement in a real-world environment. The BBD undergoes training and testing, and the simulated nervous system learns and performs control functions, based on a delayed eligibility trace learning rule.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for controlling movement of a mobile brain-based device in a real-world environment, the brain-based device including a simulated nervous system modeling the cerebellum, the method comprising: during a learning stage of the brain-based device (i) providing visual input to activate synapses from precerebellum nuclei (PN) to Purkinje cells (PC) and from precerebellum nuclei (PN) to deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) above a threshold, (ii) storing those synapses which are above the threshold, (iii) after a certain time, generating an error signal in the event the mobile brain-based device hits an obstacle, (iv) providing the error signal from an inferior olive (IO) to the synapses of the PN to PC and PN to DCN paths, in which those synapses which have been stored for at least the certain time undergo synaptic change due to the error signal, and in which the synaptic connectors in the path I0 to DCN are strong enough to evoke a response causing the mobile brain-based device to move away from the obstacle. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: during a testing stage, (i) providing visual input to activate synapses in the paths PN to PC and PN to DCN above a threshold, (ii) storing the above threshold synapses, wherein, as a result of the synaptic change during the learning stage, activity of the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) evokes a response to cause the brain-based device to avoid the obstacle, and (iii) wherein after a certain time no error signal is generated from the inferior olive (IO) and no further synaptic change occurs. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the certain time is predetermined, and is in the range of 2-4 seconds. 4. A brain-based device comprising: a) a mechanism enabling movement of the brain-based device in a real-world environment; b) a simulated nervous system, being interactive with the real-world environment, for controlling said mechanism to cause the brain-based device to move in the real-world environment; c) said simulated nervous system including a model of the cerebellum having synapses which are eligible for plasticity only after a given time interval to enable the model to predict motor control of said mechanism; and d) wherein the device has a real-world environment learning mode and a real-world environment post-learning mode to predict obstacles in the path of movement of the device, wherein, during the learning mode, (i) at a time t.sub.o, visual input to the brain-based device activates certain synapses of the cerebellum model above a threshold, said certain synapses are stored in a delay buffer, and activity of the cerebellum model is not strong enough to evoke a motor response to control said mechanism; and (ii) at a time t.sub.o, subsequent to time t.sub.o, the certain synapses stored in the buffer are eligible for synaptic change, an error signal is generated in response to an obstacle in the path of movement of the brain-based device, synaptic plasticity change of said certain synapses occurs in response to the error signal, and synaptic connections become strong enough to evoke a motor control of said mechanism to cause the brain-based device to move away from the obstacle. 5. A brain-based device according to claim 4, wherein, during the post-learning mode; a) at a time t.sub.o, visual input to the brain-based device activates certain synapses above a threshold, said certain synapses are stored in a delay buffer, activity of the cerebellum evokes a motor control response, and due to synaptic change occurring during the learning mode, causes the brain-based device to avoid the obstacle in its path before a collision; and b) during a time period subsequent to time t.sub.o, no error signal is generated and no additional synaptic change occurs. 6. A brain-based device, according to claim 5, wherein said model of said cerebellum comprises precerebellum nuclei (PN) and a cerebellar cortex having Purkinje cells (PC) and deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN), and an inferior olive (IO), wherein said precerebellar nuclei outputs to said cerebellar cortex, said Purkinje cells (PC) inhibit said deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) for turning and velocity control of the brain-based device, and said interior olive (IO) simulates climbing fiber input to said cerebellar cortex. 7. A brain-based device, according to claim 6, wherein said simulated nervous system further comprises a visual cortical area (MT) for providing input to said Purkinje cells (PC). 8. A brain-based device, according to claim 7, wherein said mechanism comprises a camera for providing visual input to said visual cortical area (MT). 9. A brain-based device, according to claim 8, wherein said mechanism comprises detectors for providing turn and velocity input to said inferior olive (IO). 10. A brain-based device, according to claim 9, wherein said mechanism comprises a motor and wheels driven by said motor, and wherein said motor receives input from said deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) and from said inferior olive (IO) to control the turning and velocity of the brain-based device. 11. A brain-based device, according to claim 10, wherein said given time interval is a fixed delay in the range of 2-4 seconds. 