An ambidextrous robotic master controller includes a mounting base secured to a support, a shoulder member pivotally connected to the mounting base and, connected in series to the shoulder, an upper arm member, a forearm member, an inner wrist member, and an outer wrist member. An ambidextrous grip link is pivotally connected to the outer wrist member and is movable to a right hand position or a left hand position. An ambidextrous hand grip member is pivotally connected to the grip link member. The controller includes suitable encoders engaged between connected elements thereof to sense and signal relative movement therebetween. The controller is usable by either a right or left handed person to control a manipulator device having links and joints analogous to the links and joints of the controller.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. An ambidextrous controller arm apparatus for controlling an operation and comprising: (a) a base member adapted for securing to a support structure; (b) an ambidextrous robotic master controller arm connected to said base member in such a manner as to be movable relative thereto to thereby control said operation; (c) an ambidextrous grip link member pivotally connected to said controller arm in spaced relation to said base member, said grip link member being pivotable between a right hand position and a left hand position; and (d) an ambidextrous hand grip member connected to said grip link member to enable grasping to move said arm to control said operation, and an encoder engaged between said grip link member and said hand grip member. 2. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein: (a) said hand grip member is pivotally connected to said grip link member. 3. An apparatus as set forth in claim 2 wherein: (a) a grip encoder engaged between said hand grip member and said grip link member, said grip encoder sensing and signaling relative pivotal movement between said hand grip member and said grip link member. 4. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 and including: (a) a base encoder engaged between said base member and said controller arm, said base encoder sensing and signaling relative movement between said base member and said controller arm. 5. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 wherein: (a) said control arm is formed by at least two arm links pivotally connected together; and (b) an arm encoder is engaged between said arm links, said arm encoder sensing and signaling relative pivoting between said arm links. 6. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 and including: (a) a grip link lock member coupled with said controller arm and movable to releasably secure said grip link member in said right hand position or said left hand position. 7. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 and including: (a) a grip link lock member threadedly coupled with said controller arm and rotatable to releasably secure said grip link member in said right hand position or said left hand position. 8. An apparatus as set forth in claim 1 and including: (a) at least one switch unit positioned on said hand grip member, said switch unit enabling control of a function remote from said apparatus. 9. An ambidextrous controller arm apparatus comprising: (a) a base member adapted for securing to a support structure; (b) a shoulder member pivotally connected to said base member and enabling swing movement of said ambidextrous robotic master controller arm; (c) an upper arm member pivotally connected to said shoulder member and enabling elevation movement of said ambidextrous robotic master controller arm; (d) a forearm member pivotally connected to said upper arm member and cooperating with said upper arm member to enable extension and retraction of said ambidextrous robotic master controller arm; (e) an ambidextrous grip link member pivotally connected to said forearm member and pivotable between a right hand position and a left hand position; (f) an ambidextrous hand grip member pivotally connected to said grip link member and enabling a forearm roll movement; and (g) a respective encoder engaged between said base member and said shoulder member, between said shoulder member and said upper arm member, between said upper arm member and said forearm member, and between said grip link member and said hand grip member, each of the encoders sensing and signaling relative pivotal movement between the sets of pivotally connected members. 10. An apparatus as set forth in claim 9 and including: (a) a wrist member pivotally connected to said forearm member, having said grip link member pivotally connected thereto, and enabling a wrist pitch movement of said hand grip member. 11. An apparatus as set forth in claim 9 and including: (a) a wrist member pivotally connected to said forearm member, having said grip link member pivotally connected thereto, and enabling a wrist yaw movement of said hand grip member. 12. An apparatus as set forth in claim 9 and including: (a) an inner wrist member pivotally connected to said forearm member and enabling a wrist pitch movement of said hand grip member; and (b) an outer wrist member pivotally connected to said inner wrist member, having said grip link member pivotally connected thereto, and enabling a wrist yaw movement of said hand grip member; and (c) a wrist pitch encoder engaged between said inner wrist member and said forearm member to sense and signal relative pivotal movement therebetween and a wrist yaw encoder engaged between said outer wrist member and said inner wrist member to sense and signal relative pivotal movement therebetween. 13. An apparatus as set forth in claim 12 and including: (a) a grip link lock nut threadedly coupled with said outer wrist member and rotatable to releasably secure said grip link member in said right hand position or said left hand position. 14. An apparatus as set forth in claim 9 and including: (a) at least one switch unit positioned on said hand grip member, said switch unit enabling control of a function remote from said apparatus. 15. An ambidextrous controller arm apparatus comprising: (a) a base member adapted for securing to a support structure; (b) a shoulder member pivotally connected to said base member and enabling swing movement of said ambidextrous robotic master controller arm; (c) an upper arm member pivotally connected to said shoulder member and enabling elevation movement of said ambidextrous robotic master controller arm; (d) a forearm member pivotally connected to said upper arm member and cooperating with said upper arm member to enable extension and retraction of said ambidextrous robotic master controller arm; (e) an inner wrist member pivotally connected to said forearm member and enabling a wrist pitch movement; (f) an outer wrist member pivotally connected to said inner wrist member and enabling a wrist yaw movement; (g) an ambidextrous grip link member pivotally connected to said outer wrist member and pivotable between a right hand position and a left hand position; (h) an ambidextrous hand grip member pivotally connected to said grip link member and enabling a forearm roll movement; and (i) a respective encoder engaged between said base member and said shoulder member, between said shoulder member and said upper arm member, between said upper arm member and said forearm member, between said forearm member and said inner wrist member, between said inner wrist member and said outer wrist member, and between said grip link member and said hand grip member, each of the encoders sensing and signaling relative pivotal movement between the sets of pivotally connected members. 16. An apparatus as set forth in claim 15 and including: (a) a grip link lock nut threadedly coupled with said outer wrist member and rotatable to releasably secure said grip link member in said right hand position or said left hand position. 17. An apparatus as set forth in claim 15 and including: (a) at least one switch unit positioned on said hand grip member, said switch unit enabling control of a function remote from said apparatus. 