A virtual wheel provides a leg pair as a conveyance mechanism for a land vehicle. The virtual wheel propels the vehicle across a surface using a repetitive motion of the legs that contact the ground as would a wheel, due to their geometry. Vehicle embodiments include at least two-, three-, four- and six-wheeled vehicles, both transverse and in-line. Additionally, the invention provides a bipedal walking robot. One embodiment provides a robotic mule--a payload-carrying vehicle. The invention combines the flexible mobility of bipedal vehicles with the stability and functionality of very large-wheeled vehicles. Additionally, a bimodal conveyance mechanism readily converts between walking and rolling modes
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A virtual wheel, said virtual wheel comprising: a leg pair, each leg of the pair including a curved foot that contacts the underlying surface as would a wheel, each leg of the pair connected to a common axle; and at least one actuator for applying motive force to said each leg under the control of a controller programmed for producing a reciprocating stepping motion by said leg pair. 2. The virtual wheel of claim 1, wherein said virtual wheel is provided in any of single, bipedal, tripedal, quadrupedal and hexapedal configurations. 3. The virtual wheel of claim 1, wherein said virtual wheel is mounted in any of: transverse pairs on a common axle; a staggered configuration; an in-line configuration; independent axles; directly on a body of said vehicle without axles. 4. The virtual wheel of claim 1, wherein said leg is jointed. 5. The virtual wheel of claim 1, wherein said foot is attached to said leg by means of a joint, so that said foot rotates relative to said leg. 6. The virtual wheel of claim 1, wherein said leg is provided with a shock absorbing means. 7. The virtual wheel of claim 1, wherein said foot defines an arc of a circle. 8. The virtual wheel of claim 1, wherein said foot has curved footpads. 9. The virtual wheel of claim 1, wherein said foot is a scimitar foot. 10. The virtual wheel of claim 1, wherein said controller activates said leg pair in a coordinated manner with other leg pairs. 