An End-Of-Arm-Tooling for a robot that includes at least one tool mounted upon a section of channel having a generally cruciform cross sectional shape that includes lobes having an arcuate-shaped portion, one end of the section of channel being adapted to be attached to a robot arm.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An End-Of-Arm-Tooling for a robot comprising: a section of channel having a generally cruciform cross sectional shape that includes lobes having an exterior mounting surface that includes an arcuate-shaped center portion surface that terminates in flat end portions, said arcuate-shaped portion describing an arc of less than ninety degrees, one end of said section of channel being adapted to be attached to a robot arm; and at least one tool mounted upon said section of channel. 2. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 1 further including a bracket with an arcuate clamp portion, said arcuate portion extending over said channel and co-operating with said arcuate shaped lobes to allow positioning of said bracket upon said section of channel to obtain a desired angle with said channel, said bracket also including at least one arm extending from said clamp portion, said arm being formed from U-shaped channel with said tool being mounted upon said arm. 3. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 2 wherein said section of channel is a first section of channel and further wherein the tooling includes a second section of channel between said bracket and said tool. 4. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 2 wherein said channel also includes at least one slot extending longitudinally along said channel; said slot adapted to receive at least one channel nut that is operative to secure one of a bracket and a tool to said channel. 5. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 1 wherein said channel also includes at least one slot extending longitudinally along said channel; said slot adapted to receive at least one channel nut that is operative to secure one of a bracket and a tool to said channel. 6. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 5 wherein said slot includes a pair of lips formed upon opposite surfaces that extend over a portion of said channel nut, said lips being received by corresponding grooves formed in said channel nut and a longitudinal groove extending along the base the of said slot and further wherein said channel nut includes a threaded bore extending therethrough, the threaded bore receiving a set screw which engages said longitudinal groove and forces said channel nut against said lips to secure said channel nut within said slot. 7. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 5 including a plurality of grooves positioned equally about the circumference of said channel and separated by said lobes. 8. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 5 further including a longitudinal bore formed through said channel, said bore adapted to receive at least one of pneumatic and hydraulic lines. 9. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 5 further including a cruciform shaped bracket attached to said channel with at least one channel nut and set screw, said cruciform shaped bracket having a plurality of arms extending therefrom, each of said arms having at least one aperture formed therethrough, said aperture adapted to secure one of a bracket and tool to said arm. 10. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 9 wherein said channel is a first channel and further wherein a second channel is attached to said arm of said cruciform shaped bracket. 11. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 5 further including a bracket with Currently Amended arcuate clamp portion, said arcuate portion extending over said channel and co-operating with said arcuate shaped lobes to allow positioning of said bracket upon said section of channel to obtain a desired angle with said channel, said bracket also including at least one arm extending from said clamp portion, said arm being formed from U-shaped channel with said tool being mounted upon said arm. 12. An End-Of-Arm-Tooling for a robot comprising: a section of channel having a generally cruciform cross sectional shape that includes lobes having an exterior mounting surface that includes an arcuate-shaped center portion surface that terminates in flat end portions, said arcuate-shaped portion describing an arc of less than ninety degrees, one end of said section of channel being adapted to be attached to a robot arm; a bracket attached to said section of channel; a second section of channel having a generally cruciform cross sectional shape that also includes lobes having an arcuate-shaped portion, one end of said second section of channel being attached to said bracket; and at least one tool mounted upon said second section of channel. 13. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 12 further including a bracket with an arcuate clamp portion, said arcuate portion extending over said channel and co-operating with said arcuate shaped lobes to allow positioning of said bracket upon said section of channel to obtain a desired angle with said channel, said bracket also including at least one arm extending from said clamp portion, said arm being formed from U-shaped channel with said tool being mounted upon said arm. 14. The End-Of-Arm-Tooling according to claim 13 said second channel also includes at least one slot extending longitudinally along said channel; said slot adapted to receive at least one channel nut that is operative to secure one of a bracket and a tool to said second channel. 15. A method for attaching a tool to a robot comprising the steps of: (a) providing a robot having a controllable movable arm; (b) attaching a section of channel having a generally cruciform cross sectional shape that includes lobes having an exterior mounting surface that includes an arcuate-shaped center portion surface that terminates in flat end portions with the arcuate-shaped portion describing an arc of less than ninety degrees to the robot arm; and (c) attaching a tool to the section of channel. 16. The method according to claim 15 wherein step (c) includes providing a bracket with an arcuate clamp portion, said arcuate portion extending over said channel and co-operating with said arcuate shaped lobes to allow positioning of said bracket upon said section of channel to obtain a desired angle with said channel, said bracket also including at least one arm extending from said clamp portion, said arm being formed from U-shaped channel with said tool being mounted upon said arm. 17. The method according to claim 16 wherein the section of channel is a first section of channel and further wherein the tooling includes a second section of channel between the bracket and the tool. 18. The method according to claim 15 wherein the section of channel includes at least one slot extending longitudinally along the channel; the slot adapted to receive at least one channel nut that is operative to secure one of a bracket and a tool to the channel in step (c). 