Method and apparatus for testing of LCD cells is disclosed. An LCD cell under test (14, 30) may be mounted to translatable table (40) between polarization state generator (10) and polarization state analyzer (16). For each location on cell (14, 30) to be tested, a variety of known polarization states (22) are launched through LCD cell (14, 30) and detected by polarization state analyzer (16). Electrical signals representative of polarization states are acquired by computer (18). Within computer (18), a model (58, 60) of polarization properties of LCD cell (14, 30) is developed based on estimations of what physical parameters of LCD cell (14, 30) are believed to be. RMS differences between simulated polarization properties and measured polarization properties are minimized by iteratively refining (60) modeled physical cell properties, at which point cell thickness and other physical parameters of the LCD cell may be deduced.
Claims I claim: 1. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to a method utilizing a computer processor for determining at least one physical parameter of a liquid crystal cell under test to determine whether said liquid crystal cell under test is defective comprising: A) directing sequences of polarization states generated by a polarization state generator at said liquid crystal cell under test, each polarization state of said sequences of polarization states differing from other polarization states of said sequences of polarization states in orientation, ellipticity and handedness, B) analyzing said sequences of polarization states as modified by said liquid crystal cell under test by a polarization state analyzer, and converting analyzed said sequences of polarization states into corresponding sequences of electrical signals, C) using said computer processor to calculate polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test from said sequences of electrical signals, D) using said computer to develop a computer model including at least one estimated physical parameter of said liquid crystal cell under test, and adjust said at least one estimated physical parameter until a close match is obtained between analyzed said polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test and calculated said polarization properties of said computer model of a liquid crystal cell, E) providing at least one indication of a closely matched said estimated physical parameter representative of a corresponding physical parameter of said liquid crystal cell under test, wherein said at least one indication further comprises indicating one or more of the group of said estimated physical parameters comprising cell gap, twist angle, rubbing direction and pre-tilt angle. 2. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 1 further comprising: calculating a polarization matrix of said liquid crystal cell under test, said polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties obtained from analyzed said sequences of polarization states as modified by said liquid crystal cell under test, calculating a polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model of said liquid crystal cell under test, iteratively modifying one or more of said estimated physical parameters comprising pre-tilt, rubbing direction, cell gap and twist angle in said computer model until said polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model is closely matched to said polarization matrix of said liquid crystal cell under test. 3. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 2 wherein said calculating a polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model further comprises: representing a cross-section of said computer model of a liquid crystal cell as a plurality of layers of a uniaxial birefringent material, with tilt angle and orientation of each said layer of said plurality of layers varying in a known manner, calculating a polarization matrix for each said layer of said plurality of layers, and from a plurality of polarization matrices developed by said plurality of layers, calculating a composite polarization matrix from said plurality of layers using the formula: M.sub.cell=M.sub.QM.sub.Q-1. . . M.sub.2M.sub.1 where M.sub.cell is the calculated composite Mueller matrix of the liquid crystal cell, and M.sub.i (where i=1 to Q) are the calculated polarization matrices of Q individual layers of said plurality of layers of uniaxial birefringent material representing said cross-section of said computer model of the liquid crystal cell. 4. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 2 wherein said calculating a polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model further comprises: representing a cross-section of said computer model of a liquid crystal cell as a plurality of layers of a uniaxial birefringent material wherein values for an ordinary and extraordinary refractive index of each layer of said plurality of layers is known, calculating a polarization matrix for each said layer of said plurality of layers, from a plurality of polarization matrices developed by said plurality of layers, calculating a composite polarization matrix using the formula: M.sub.cell=M.sub.QM.sub.Q-1. . . M.sub.2M.sub.1 where M.sub.cell is the calculated composite Mueller matrix of the liquid crystal cell, and M.sub.i (where i=1 to Q) are the calculated polarization matrices of Q individual layers of said plurality of layers of uniaxial birefringent material representing said cross-section of said computer model of the liquid crystal cell. 5. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 2 wherein at least one of said group of estimates of physical parameters of pre-tilt, rubbing direction, cell gap and twist angle for said liquid crystal cell under test are known a priori, and calculating said polarization matrix associated with said liquid crystal cell under test and calculating said polarization matrix associated with said computer model having said known at least one a priori parameter incorporated therein. 6. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 2 further comprising obtaining a lowest root mean square difference between elements of said polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model and said polarization matrix obtained from said polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test to determine when said polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test and said polarization matrix indicative of said polarization states from said liquid crystal cell are closely matched. 7. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 6 further comprising using a Mueller matrix format or a Jones matrix format for each said matrix. 8. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 6 further comprising calculating said polarization matrix of said liquid crystal cell under test and said polarization matrix of said computer model considering only retardance components for each respective said polarization matrix. 9. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 8 further comprising: directing said sequences of polarization states at one or more incident angles and from one or more directions through said liquid crystal cell, performing a polar decomposition on said polarization matrix of said liquid crystal cell under test, performing a curve fit on said polarization matrix of said liquid crystal cell under test in order to minimize said root mean square difference between said elements of said polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said computer model and corresponding elements of said polarization matrix indicative of said polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test. 10. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 9 further comprising: displaying an image illustrating trajectory of said polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test and said polarization properties of said curve fit on a Poincare sphere, and providing adjustments for varying a viewing angle of said Poincare sphere. 11. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 10 further comprising: allowing a selection of which of said at least one estimated physical parameters of said liquid crystal cell under test are to be measured, and allowing a priori ones of said at least one estimated physical parameters to be held constant in said computer model. 12. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 1 further comprising allowing a choice of either a specific location on said liquid crystal cell under test to be measured or automated measurements using a map of predetermined XY coordinates on said liquid crystal cell under test to be measured. 13. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 1 wherein said D) further comprises: varying an incident angle, a direction of said incident angle or varying both said incident angle and said direction of said incident angle at which said plurality of polarization states having different orientation, ellipticity and handedness is launched through said liquid crystal cell. 14. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 1 further comprising: calculating a plurality of polarization matrices from said sequences of polarization states, and; developing a composite polarization matrix from said plurality of polarization matrices, said composite polarization matrix indicative of polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test. 15. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to a method using a computer processing device to analyze data representative of measured polarization states of a liquid crystal cell under test to determine at least one physical parameter of said liquid crystal cell under test and comprising: A) launching a beam of light having a plurality of polarization states through said liquid crystal cell under test, each polarization state of said plurality of polarization states having different orientation, ellipticity and handedness from other said polarization states of said plurality of polarization states, B) after said plurality of polarization states pass through said liquid crystal cell under test, measuring polarization states as altered by said liquid crystal cell under test at selected points along launched said plurality of polarization states, and converting measured said polarization states into said data representative of said measured polarization states, C) in a computer processing device, developing a liquid crystal cell model including modeled polarization properties based on at least one estimated physical parameter of said liquid crystal cell under test, D) using said data representative of said measured polarization states, adjusting said computer model until a close match is obtained between said modeled polarization properties and polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test, E) whereby when said close match is obtained, said at least one estimated physical parameter of said liquid crystal cell model is indicative of a corresponding said physical parameter of said liquid crystal cell under test. 16. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 15 wherein said step A) further comprises launching a continuum of time-varying polarization states containing said plurality of polarization states having different orientation, ellipticity and handedness. 17. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 15 further comprising launching and measuring a sufficient number of said plurality of polarization states having different orientation, ellipticity and handedness to calculate at least a pure retardance matrix. 18. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 15 further comprising launching and measuring a sufficient number of said plurality of polarization states having different orientation, ellipticity and handedness to allow calculation of a full Mueller or Jones matrix. 19. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 15 wherein said D) further comprises iteratively adjusting said at least one of said estimated physical parameters of said liquid crystal cell model until a lowest root mean square difference between said polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell model and polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test is obtained. 20. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 19 wherein said D) further comprises varying at least one of said estimated physical parameters comprising cell gap, twist angle, rubbing direction and pre-tilt angle. 21. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 20 further comprising displaying a varied said at least one estimated physical parameter after said close match is obtained, said at least one closely matched, varied estimated physical parameter representative of a corresponding physical parameter of said liquid crystal cell under test. 22. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 15 further comprising mounting said liquid crystal cell to an XY translatable stage so that said liquid crystal cell may be moved in X and Y directions to enable measurement at any location on said liquid crystal cell. 23. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to a method using a computer processor to determine physical parameters of a liquid crystal cell, said method comprising: A) measuring polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test, and converting measured said polarization properties into signals representative of said measured polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test, B) In said computer processor, developing a mathematical model of a liquid crystal cell, said mathematical model using estimated physical parameters to model said liquid crystal cell under test, C) using said signals representative of said measured polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test, adjusting values in said mathematical model of said liquid crystal cell until a close match is obtained between polarization properties of said mathematical model of a liquid crystal cell and said measured polarization properties of said liquid crystal cell under test, D) providing an indication of quality of said liquid crystal cell under test based on said estimated physical parameters of a closely matched said mathematical model of a liquid crystal cell to said liquid crystal cell under test. 24. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 23 wherein said A) further comprises: launching and analyzing a sufficient number of timevarying polarization states each having significantly different orientation, ellipticity and handedness, so as to cover a large portion of a Poincare sphere through said liquid crystal cell under test. 25. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 24 wherein said B) further comprises: modeling said liquid crystal cell as a plurality of homogenous layers of a uniaxial birefringent material with known values for ordinary and extraordinary refractive indices of each layer, and wherein orientation and tilt of said layers vary in a known manner, calculating a polarization matrix for each said layer of said homogenous layers, from a plurality of polarization matrices developed from respective said plurality of homogenous layers, calculating a composite polarization matrix for said mathematical model using the formula M.sub.cell=M.sub.QM.sub.Q-1. . . M.sub.2M.sub.1 where M.sub.cell is the calculated composite Mueller matrix of the liquid crystal cell, and M.sub.i (where i=1 to Q) are the calculated polarization matrices of Q individual layers of said plurality of layers of uniaxial birefringent material representing said cross-section of said computer model of the liquid crystal cell. 26. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 25 wherein said C) further comprises iteratively varying one or more mathematical values corresponding to one or more of said estimated physical parameters until said close match is obtained. 27. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 26 wherein said D) further comprises displaying closely matched said one or more of said estimated physical parameters representative of physical parameters of said liquid crystal cell under test. 28. A liquid crystal viewing screen tested for defects during manufacture according to the method set forth in claim 27 further comprising selecting a repeat ratio between said sequences of polarization states directed at said liquid crystal cell under test and received said sequences of polarization states such that sequential polarization measurements of said liquid crystal cell under test are made with dissimilar said polarization state generator and said polarization state analyzer configurations so that accuracy of said step C) is enhanced. 