An apparatus for hardening a sealant on a substrate is disclosed in the present invention. The apparatus includes a chamber receiving at least a pair of bonded substrates, and at least one supporting unit supporting the bonded substrates, attached to inner side surfaces of the chamber, and having a substantially flat contact surface contacting the bonded substrates.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for hardening a sealant located between a pair of bonded substrates of a liquid crystal display device comprising: a chamber receiving at least the pair of bonded substrates of the liquid crystal display device; an introduction hole introducing heated air into the chamber, wherein an inside of the chamber is heated by the introducing heated air; a plurality of supporting bars inside the chamber, each supporting bar having a substantially flat first surface contacting the bonded substrates and having long sides and at least one short side, and a connecting member at the at least one short side of the supporting bars, the long sides of the supporting bar being separated from an inner side surface of the chamber; and an attaching unit having one end attached to the chamber and another end attached the connecting member of the supporting bars, wherein the connecting member is a hole, wherein the hole has a quadrilateral cross-section and the attaching unit has a round cross-section; and wherein the hole is larger than the attaching unit inserted therein in order that the supporting bars are tilted in accordance with the round cross-section of the attaching unit. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the connecting member has a length corresponding to that of the attaching unit. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the supporting bars have a substantially flat second surface facing into other bonded substrates. 4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the supporting bars form a plurality of steps. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the supporting bars have a quadrilateral cross-section. 6. An apparatus for hardening a sealant located between a pair of bonded substrates of a liquid crystal display device comprising: a chamber receiving at least the pair of bonded substrates of the liquid crystal display device; an introduction hole introducing heated air into the chamber, wherein an inside of the chamber is heated by the introducing heated air; a plurality of supporting bars inside the chamber, each supporting bar having a substantially flat first surface contacting the bonded substrates and a connecting member on each side of the supporting bars; and an attaching unit having one end attached to the chamber and another end attached the connecting member of the supporting bars, wherein the connecting member includes an empty space inside the connecting member and passes through an entire supporting bar, wherein the empty space has a quadrilateral cross-section and the attaching unit has a round cross-section; and wherein the empty space is larger than the attaching unit inserted therein in order that the supporting bars are tilted in accordance with the round cross-section of the attaching unit. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the supporting bars have a substantially flat second surface facing into other bonded substrates. 8. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the supporting bars form a plurality of steps. 9. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the supporting bars have a quadrilateral cross-section. 