A method of transferring storage devices within a storage device testing system includes actuating an automated transporter to substantially simultaneously retrieve multiple storage devices presented for testing, and actuating the automated transporter to substantially simultaneously deliver each retrieved storage device to a respective test slot of the storage device testing system and substantially simultaneously insert each storage device in the respective test slot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage device testing system comprising: an automated transporter; at least one rack arranged about the automated transporter for access by the automated transporter; multiple test slots housed by each rack, each test slot being configured to receive a storage device for testing; a transfer station arranged for access by the automated transporter, the transfer station presenting multiple storage devices for testing; and a manipulator attached to the automated transporter, the manipulator comprising multiple couplers arranged in at least a one-dimensional array, each coupler being configured to transport a storage device. 2. The storage device testing system of claim 1, wherein each coupler is arranged substantially parallel to one another for holding storage devices substantially parallel to one another. 3. The storage device testing system of claim 1, wherein each coupler is configured to releasably attach to a storage device transporter. 4. The storage device testing system of claim 1, wherein the manipulator comprises: a manipulator body; and multiple couplers disposed on the manipulator body and spaced from one another in an arrangement that corresponds to at least one of: a test slot layout, allowing the manipulator to substantially simultaneously service multiple test slots, and a tote receptacle layout, allowing the manipulator to substantially simultaneously service multiple tote storage device receptacles of a storage device tote presented to the storage device testing system. 5. The storage device testing system of claim 1, wherein the transfer station comprises a transfer station housing configured to receive and support multiple storage device totes in a presentation position for servicing by the automated transporter, wherein each storage device tote comprises a tote body defining multiple storage device receptacles configured to each house a storage device. 6. The storage device testing system of claim 1, wherein the transfer station comprises a conveyor. 7. A manipulator for a storage device testing system, the manipulator comprising: a manipulator body; and multiple couplers disposed on the manipulator body and spaced from one another in an arrangement that corresponds to a storage device servicing layout, allowing the manipulator to substantially simultaneously service multiple storage devices at once. 8. The manipulator of claim 7, wherein the storage device servicing layout comprises a test slot layout of the storage device testing system, allowing the manipulator to substantially simultaneously service multiple test slots. 9. The manipulator of claim 7, wherein the storage device servicing layout comprises a tote receptacle layout, allowing the manipulator to substantially simultaneously service multiple tote storage device receptacles of a tote that carries storage devices. 10. The manipulator of claim 7, wherein the storage device servicing layout comprises arranging the couplers in at least a one-dimensional array according to a coupler spacing, allowing the manipulator to transport storage devices substantially parallel to one another. 11. The manipulator of claim 10, wherein each coupler is arranged substantially parallel to one another for holding storage devices substantially parallel to one another. 