A manipulator for supporting and displacing an object comprises a base. A moving portion supports the object. Two articulated mechanisms each having five rotational joints between links, with each articulated mechanism being connected to the base by two of the rotational joints. The moving portion is connected to both the articulated mechanisms by moving-portion joints. The articulated mechanisms and moving-portion joints are arranged with respect to each other between the base and the moving portion so as to constrain movement of the moving portion to displacements in two translational degrees of freedom and two rotational degrees of freedom with respect to the base. Four actuators are each operatively connected to a different one of the rotational joints between the base and the articulated mechanisms so as to selectively control the displacements of the moving portion in any one of the four degrees of freedom of the moving portion.
Claims We claim: 1. A manipulator for supporting and displacing an object, comprising: a base; a moving portion adapted to support the object; at least two articulated mechanisms each having at least five rotational joints between links, with the axes of each the at least five rotational joints of both the articulated mechanisms all being permanently parallel to one another, with each articulated mechanism being connected to the base by two of said rotational joints, the moving portion being connected to both said articulated mechanisms by moving-portion joints, the articulated mechanisms and moving-portion joints being arranged with respect to each other between the base and the moving portion so as to constrain movement of the moving portion to displacements in two translational degrees of freedom and three rotational degrees of freedom with respect to the base; and at least four actuators being each operatively connected to a different one of the rotational joints between the base and the articulated mechanisms so as to selectively control the displacements of the moving portion in any one of the two translational degrees of freedom and in two of the rotational degrees of freedom of the moving portion. 2. The manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the base is mounted to a linear actuator, whereby the moving portion is displaceable along three translational degrees of freedom and two rotational degrees of freedom by actuation of the actuators. 3. The manipulator according to claim 2, wherein the direction of the linear actuator is parallel to the axes of each of the at least five rotational joints of both said articulated mechanisms. 4. The manipulator according to claim 2, further comprising a rotational actuator connected to one of said moving-portion joints to actuate a rotation of the moving portion, whereby the moving portion is displaceable along three translational degrees of freedom and three rotational degrees of freedom. 5. The manipulator according to claim 1, further comprising a rotational actuator connected to one of said moving-portion joints to actuate a rotation of the moving portion, whereby the moving portion is displaceable along two translational degrees of freedom and three rotational degrees of freedom by actuation of the actuators. 6. The manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the two articulated mechanisms are five-bar mechanisms. 7. The manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the moving-portion joints comprise a pair of universal joints and anyone of a cylindrical joint and prismatic joint between the universal joints, the universal joints each being connected to one said rotational joint of the articulated mechanisms, the moving portion being secured to the one of the cylindrical joint and prismatic joint. 8. The manipulator according to claim 7, further comprising a rotational actuator connected to one of said universal joints to actuate a rotation of the moving portion, whereby the moving portion is displaceable along three translational degrees of freedom and three rotational degrees of freedom. 9. The manipulator according to claim 1, wherein the moving portion supports a tool. 