In one embodiment, a crystallization and screening plate comprises a plurality of cells open at a top and a bottom, a frame that defines the cells in the plate, and at least two films. The first film seals a top of the plate and the second film seals a bottom of the plate. At least one of the films is patterned to strongly pin the contact lines of drops dispensed onto it, fixing their position and shape. The present invention also includes methods and other devices for manual and high-throughput protein crystal growth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A screening and crystallization plate for manual and high-throughput biological and organic crystal growth comprising: a plurality of cells open at a top and a bottom; a frame that defines the cells in the plate; at least one first film or layer sealing a bottom of the plate; at least one second film sized to seal the a top of the plate; and at least one sealer for sealing the second film to the plate after at least one liquid drop is dispensed on the first film or layer; wherein the first film or layer is patterned to produce strong pinning at at least one location on the film or layer of at least one contact line of the at least one liquid drop to be dispensed onto the first film or layer. 2. The plate of claim 1, wherein the first film or layer and the second film are x-ray transparent. 3. The plate of claim 1, wherein the frame comprises a plurality of scoring marks to facilitate cutting and removal of the film or layer around each cell. 4. The plate of claim 1, wherein the cells are circular such that a circular cutting tool removes at least one of the films or layers covering the cells to retrieve at least one crystal. 5. The plate of claim 1, wherein at least one of the films or layers is stamped or bar-coded to identify the plate or each individual cell. 6. The plate of claim 1, wherein a region of the first film or layer that is patterned has at least one chemical property related to contact line pinning that is different from a chemical property of a region of the first film or layer that is unpatterned. 7. The plate of claim 1, wherein the first film or layer is patterned to produce strong contact line pinning at at least one specific location on the first film or layer, and where a dimension of a pattern perpendicular to a plane of the film or layer is smaller than a height of the at least one liquid drop to be dispensed onto the film or layer. 8. The plate of claim 1, further comprising a third film or a sheet placed near a middle of the frame, wherein the third film or the sheet holds the drops. 9. The plate of claim 8, wherein the third film or the sheet is patterned to produce strong pinning at at least one position on the film or sheet of at least one contact line of the at least one liquid drop dispensed onto the third film or the sheet, and wherein a dimension of the pattern perpendicular to a plane of the film or sheet is smaller than a height of the at least one liquid drop to be dispensed onto the film or sheet. 10. The plate of claim 1, wherein the films or layers are made of plastic. 11. The plate of claim 1, wherein the cells are rectangular. 12. The plate of claim 1, wherein the sealer comprises a gasket. 13. The plate of claim 1, wherein at least one drop containing at least one molecule to be crystallized and at least one reservoir drop are held on the first film or layer. 14. The plate of claim 1, wherein the first film or layer and the second film are optically transparent. 15. A crystallization apparatus comprising: a crystallization plate designed for use with at least one coverslip; and at least one coverslip comprising at least one patterned area and at least one unpatterned area such that the patterned area produces stronger contact line pinning of at least one liquid drop at at least one location on the coverslip than on an unpatterned coverslip; wherein the coverslip is a medium to hold the drop. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the pattern comprises at least one disk or at least one ring, and wherein a dimension of the disk or ring perpendicular to the plane of the coverslip is smaller than a height of the at least one liquid drop to be dispensed onto the coverslip. 17. The plate of claim 7, wherein a dimension of the surface pattern perpendicular to the plane of the film or layer is between 1 and 50 microns. 18. The plate of claim 7, wherein a dimension of the surface pattern perpendicular to the plane of the film or layer is at least 50 microns. 19. The plate of claim 1, wherein a surface topography of the first film or layer is patterned to produce strong pinning at at least one location on the film or layer of at least one contact line of the at least one liquid drop dispensed onto the first film or layer. 20. A plate for biological research, comprising: a plurality of cells open at a top and a bottom; a frame that defines the cells in the plate; at least one first film or layer sealing a bottom of the plate; at least one second film sized to seal a top of the plate; and at least one sealer for sealing the second film to the plate after at least one liquid drop is dispensed on the first film or layer; wherein the first film or layer is patterned to produce strong pinning at at least one location on the film or layer of at least one contact line of the at least one liquid drop dispensed onto the first film or layer. 21. The plate of claim 20, wherein at least one of the films or layers is stamped or bar-coded to identify the plate or each individual cell. 22. The plate of claim 20, wherein a surface pattern of the film or layer comprises a plurality of circular disks, a plurality of elliptical disks, a plurality of circular rings, a plurality of elliptical rings, at least one set of concentric circular rings, or at least one set of concentric elliptical rings, and wherein a disk or ring height or depth perpendicular to a plane of the film is smaller than a height of the at least one liquid drop to be dispensed onto the film or layer. 23. The plate of claim 20, wherein a region of the first film that is patterned has at least one chemical property related to contact line pinning that is different from a chemical property of a region of the first film that is unpatterned. 24. The plate of claim 20, wherein the films or layers are made of plastic. 25. The plate of claim 20, wherein the sealer comprises a gasket. 26. The plate of claim 20, wherein the first film or layer and the second film are optically transparent. 27. The plate of claim 22, wherein a width of the rings is 5 to 100 microns. 28. The plate of claim 20, wherein a dimension of a surface pattern perpendicular to a plane of the film or layer is between 1 and 50 microns. 29. The plate of claim 20, wherein a dimension of a surface pattern perpendicular to a plane of the film or layer is at least 50 microns. 30. The plate of claim 22, wherein a surface topography of the film or layer is patterned to define the disks or rings that pin contact lines. 31. A screening and crystallization plate for manual and high-throughput biological and organic crystal growth comprising: a plurality of cells open at a top and a bottom; a frame that defines the cells in the plate; and at least one film or layer sealing a bottom of the plate; wherein the film or layer is patterned to produce strong pinning at at least one location on the film or layer of at least one contact line of at least one liquid drop dispensed onto the film or layer. 32. The plate of claim 31, wherein the film or layer is x-ray transparent. 33. The plate of claim 31, wherein the film or layer is stamped or bar-coded to identify the plate or each individual cell. 34. The plate of claim 31, wherein a pattern of the film or layer comprises a plurality of circular disks, a plurality of elliptical disks, a plurality of circular rings, a plurality of elliptical rings, at least one set of concentric circular rings, or at least one set of concentric elliptical rings, and wherein a dimension of the pattern perpendicular to a plane of the film or layer is smaller than a height of the at least one liquid drop to be dispensed onto the film or layer. 35. The plate of claim 31, wherein a region of the film or layer that is patterned has at least one chemical property related to contact line pinning that is different from a chemical property of a region of the film that is unpatterned. 36. The plate of claim 1, wherein a pattern of the film or layer comprises a plurality of circular disks or a plurality of elliptical disks, and wherein a disk height or depth perpendicular to a plane of the film is smaller than a height of the at least one liquid drop to be dispensed onto the film. 37. The plate of claim 1, wherein a pattern of the film or layer comprises a plurality of circular rings, a plurality of elliptical rings, at least one set of concentric circular rings, or at least one set of concentric elliptical rings, and wherein a ring height perpendicular to a plane of the film or layer is smaller than a height of the at least liquid drop to be dispensed onto the film or layer. 38. The plate of claim 37, wherein a width of the rings is smaller than a diameter of the rings. 39. The plate of claim 37, wherein a width of the rings is 5 to 100 microns. 40. The plate of claim 36, wherein a dimension of the surface pattern perpendicular to the plane of the film or layer is between 1 and 50 microns. 41. The plate of claim 36, wherein a dimension of the surface pattern perpendicular to the plane of the film or layer is at least 50 microns. 42. The plate of claim 36, wherein a dimension of the surface pattern perpendicular to the plane of the film or layer is less than 200 microns. 43. The plate of claim 37, wherein a dimension of the surface pattern perpendicular to the plane of the film or layer is between 1 and 50 microns. 44. The plate of claim 37, wherein a dimension of the surface pattern perpendicular to the plane of the film or layer is at least 50 microns. 45. The plate of claim 37, wherein a dimension of the surface pattern perpendicular to the plane of the film or layer is less than 200 microns. 46. The plate of claim 7, wherein a dimension of a surface pattern perpendicular to the plane of the film or layer is less than 200 microns. 47. The plate of claim 20, wherein a dimension of a surface pattern perpendicular to a plane of the film or layer is less than 200 microns. 48. The plate of claim 1, wherein a position on the first film or layer of at least one contact line of the at least one drop dispensed onto the first film or layer is fixed by a pattern, and wherein the at least one liquid drop is held in place on the first film or layer by the pattern. 49. The plate of claim 48, wherein the contact line of the at least one liquid drop will not move from its place on the first film or layer when the plate is inverted. 