An apparatus and method for in vivo and ex vivo control, detection and measurements of radiation in brachytherapy accomplished through scintillating material detection. One example includes scintillating fibers placed along a delivery guide such as a catheter for measuring applied radiation levels during brachytherapy treatments, sensing locations of a radiation source or providing feedback of sensed radiation. The catheter may also be a mammosite type catheter. The scintillating fibers provide light output levels correlating to the levels of radiation striking the fibers. The output may then be used to measure and compute radiation distribution maps using Monte Carlo reconstruction simulation. Adjustments to a radiation treatment may be made as needed based on actual and measured applied dosages. Characteristics of a radiation source may also be measured using scintillating materials.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An active delivery guide comprising: a receptacle having a wall and a first end and a second end, an opening configured at the first end to receive a source of radiation; and at least one radiation detector, including scintillating material arranged along the wall and extending from proximate the first end to proximate the second end, the at least one radiation detector emitting a light level in proportion to sensed incident levels of radiation. 2. The active delivery guide of claim 1, wherein said scintillating material comprises at least one of one or more scintillating fibers, a scintillating crystal, and a scintillating liquid or gas encased in an encasement. 3. The active delivery guide of claim 1, wherein said active delivery guide is configured to be insertable in a biological subject for use in brachytherapy. 4. The active delivery guide of claim 3, wherein the biological subject is a human or an animal and the active delivery guide comprises an active catheter. 5. The active delivery guide of claim 1, further comprising at least one photo detector responsive to said scintillating material for measuring light levels induced by the radiation source. 6. The active delivery guide of claim 5, wherein said scintillating material is detachably connected to said at least one photo detector. 7. The active delivery guide of claim 5, wherein said at least one photo detector comprises one of a photomultiplier tube, a photodiode, a charge-coupled device (CCD) and a solid state photomultiplier (SSPM). 8. The active delivery guide of claim 1, wherein said at least one scintillating material comprises at least one fiber having a length arranged along the length of the active delivery guide. 9. The active delivery guide of claim 1, wherein said delivery guide has a wall and said scintillating material is embedded in said wall. 10. The active delivery guide of claim 1, wherein said scintillating material is arranged about a circumference of the delivery guide. 11. The active delivery guide of claim 4, wherein said receptacle comprises a conduit for supporting the source of radiation or at least one radiation detector in a plurality of positions within the active catheter. 12. The active delivery guide of claim 4, further comprising an expandable balloon operatively attached to the active catheter. 13. The combination of claim 1 and a radiation source. 14. The combination of claim 13, further comprising a robotic controller for moving the radiation source along the active delivery guide. 15. A system for brachytherapy, comprising: a radiation sensing device having a receptacle configured with an opening to receive a radiation source, and the receptacle having a wall comprising scintillating material arranged along a length of the wall; a photo sensor connected to the sensing device; and a delivery system connected to said sensing device, wherein said delivery system moves the radiation source in said sensing device according to a pre-determined plan and said radiation sensing device is configurable for use with said delivery system. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein said scintillating material comprises at least one scintillating fiber. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the pre-determined plan is based upon the intensity and distribution characteristics of said radiation source. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein said radiation sensing device emits light levels in proportion to radiation levels penetrating said sensing device. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the light levels are indicative of the position of said radiation source within the sensing device. 20. The system of claim 15, wherein said sensing device is implantable in a biological subject. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein said biological subject is a human or an animal. 22. The system of claim 15, wherein said radiation sensing device comprises a plurality of radiation sensing devices or emitting devices. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein said plurality of radiation sensing devices and are arranged in a pre-determined configuration in relation to each other and a target for radiation treatment. 24. The system of claim 15, wherein said sensing device has an output indicative of a measurement of applied radiation. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the measurement comprises a dosage map for radiation therapy. 26. The system of claim 24, wherein the output is processed in real-time to provide a multi-dimensional distribution map of applied radiation. 27. The system of claim 26, wherein the output is processed by Brachytherapy Dose Monte Carlo simulation or other treatment planning simulation. 28. The system of claim 24, wherein the output provides a basis to alter the pre-determined plan to achieve a pre-determined radiation distribution goal. 29. The system of claim 15, further comprising a data acquisition system coupled to said photo sensor and processing signals from said photo sensor to generate a radiation map indicative of radiation detected by said radiation sensing device. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein said delivery system is a robotic controller and said data acquisition system is connected to said robotic controller for receiving signals indicating a position of the radiation source in said sensing device. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the data acquisition system controls said robotic controller and the position of the radiation source based on the received signals from said photo sensor. 32. The system of claim 29, wherein said data acquisition system generates the radiation map using Brachytherapy Dose Monte Carlo. 33. The system of claim 15, further comprising an active fiber array to characterize the radiation source. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein said active fiber array comprises at least one scintillating fiber coupled to the said photo sensor for detecting light levels. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein said at least one scintillating fiber comprises a plurality of scintillating fibers aligned substantially parallel to one another. 36. The system of claim 33, wherein the radiation source is characterized by moving the radiation source across said active fiber array to measure radiation intensities and directionality along a length of the radiation source. 37. The system of claim 33, wherein said active fiber array has a size that renders an effective reading of dwelling positions for the radiation source. 38. The system of claim 15, wherein said delivery system comprises one of a robotic controller, gun and catheter. 39. A method for characterizing a radiation source for use in radiation therapy, said method comprising the steps of: moving at least one of a therapeutic radiation source and a radiation detector, including scintillating material, in relation to the other; measuring radiation characteristics of the radiation source in multiple orientations of the radiation source in relation to the radiation detector; and recording the measured radiation characteristics and associating the measured radiation characteristics with the radiation source to map the radiation characteristics of the radiation source in the multiple orientations for use in brachytherapy treatment planning and treatment application. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein said step of reading and associating measured radiation characteristics comprises recording and associating at least one of directionality, a dwelling position and intensity. 41. The method of claim 39, wherein said moving step comprises moving the radiation source relative to at least one of a scintillating fiber, a rod having scintillating material at one end and an active scintillating material array. 42. A radiation source characterized by the process of claim 39. 43. A method for detecting radiation in brachytherapy, said method comprising the steps of: inserting a radiation source into a delivery guide, the delivery guide comprising scintillating material configured along an extent of the delivery guide, the delivery guide configured to permit movement of the radiation source along the scintillating material; and measuring a level of radiation emitted by the radiation source by detecting light emitted by the delivery guide. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein the delivery guide is an active delivery guide containing scintillating material and further comprising the steps of: stepping the radiation source in pre-determined increments along the active delivery guide; and computing the location of the radiation source in the active delivery guide based on output signals of the active delivery guide. 45. The method of claim 44, further comprising the step of verifying a location based on the stepping with the computed location. 46. The method of claim 43, further comprising the steps of: determining characteristics of the radiation source prior to said inserting step; generating a treatment plan based on the characteristics; and controlling the radiation source within the delivery guide in accordance with the treatment plan. 47. The method of claim 46, wherein said step of determining characteristics of the radiation source comprises determining at least one of directionality of the radiation source and intensity of the radiation source. 48. The method of claim 46, wherein said step of determining the characteristics comprises: moving the radiation source past a radiation detector having scintillating material; and measuring light levels generated by the radiation detector to determine emission properties of the radiation source. 49. The method of claim 43, further comprising the steps of: implanting a plurality of active delivery guides into a biological system in a predetermined arrangement; and operatively connecting the active delivery guides to a photo detector for measuring the output of the active delivery guides as induced by the radiation source. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein said inserting step comprises inserting the radiation source into the plurality of active delivery guides. 51. The method of claim 49, further comprising the step of computing a radiation map based on the output of the active delivery guides. 52. The method of claim 51, further comprising altering a treatment plan based on the computed radiation map to achieve a pre-determined radiation treatment goal. 53. A radiation detector for use in brachytherapy, said detector comprising: scintillating material responsive to radiation and configured to be coupled to a photo detector, wherein said scintillating material is insertable in a biological body and the photo detector detects light levels emitted by said scintillating material and provides outputs indicative of radiation levels detected by said scintillating material, wherein the scintillating material is configured to form at least in part a delivery guide to guide movement of a radiation source along the scintillating material, the radiation source producing the radiation. 54. The radiation detector of claim 53, wherein said scintillating material comprises at least one of a scintillating liquid or gas encased in an encasement and a scintillating crystal. 55. The radiation detector of claim 53, wherein said radiation detector comprises a catheter. 56. The radiation detector of claim 53, wherein said scintillating material comprises at least one scintillating fiber. 57. The combination of the radiation detector of claim 53 and a photo detector. 58. The method of claim 39, further comprising rotating the radiation source around a long axis to achieve the multiple orientations. 59. The active delivery guide of claim 1, wherein said opening is configured at the first end to receive a source of radiation. 60. The active delivery guide of claim 1, wherein said scintillating material comprises at least two scintillating fibers wherein cross verification of signals between two locations of the at least two scintillating fibers yields local dose information. 61. The system of claim 15, wherein said wall comprises said scintillating material arranged within the wall. 62. The system of claim 15, wherein said scintillating material comprises at least two scintillating fibers wherein cross verification of signals between two locations of the at least two scintillating fibers yields local dose information. 63. The radiation detector of claim 53, wherein said scintillating material comprises at least two scintillating fibers wherein cross verification of signals between two locations of the at least two scintillating fibers yields local dose information. 64. A system for brachytherapy, comprising: a radiation sensing device having a receptacle configured with an opening to receive a radiation source, and the receptacle having a wall comprising scintillating material arranged along a length of the wall; a photo sensor connected to the sensing device; a delivery system connected to said sensing device, wherein said delivery system moves the radiation source in said radiation sensing device according to a pre-determined plan and said radiation sensing device is configurable for use with said delivery system; and a data acquisition system coupled to said photo sensor and processing signals from said photo sensor to generate a radiation map to compare with a brachytherapy dose Monte Carlo or output from a treatment planning algorithm to either alter a treatment plan to accommodate actual dose delivery information or verify accurate dose delivery for quality assurance. 65. The system of claim 64, wherein said scintillating material is arranged within the wall. 