Torque control capability is provided to a position controlled robot by calculating joint position inputs from transformation of the desired joint torques. This is based on calculating the transfer function 1/E(s), which relates the desired joint torque to joint position. Here E(s) is a servo transfer function D(s) or an effective servo transfer function D*(s). The use of an effective servo transfer function D*s) is helpful in cases where joint nonlinearities are significant. The effective servo transfer function D*(s) is defined with respect to an ideal joint transfer function G*(s)=1/(I.sub.effs.sup.2+b.sub.effs), where I.sub.eff is an effective moment of inertia and b.sub.eff is an effective damping coefficient.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic control method for a position controlled robot, the method comprising: a) determining a closed loop position transfer function of a selected joint of the robot relating a commanded input joint position to an actual joint position; b) selecting a dynamic open loop joint torque to position transfer function relating to the selected joint; c) determining a corresponding effective servo transfer function of the selected joint from said closed loop position transfer function and said dynamic open loop torque to position transfer function; d) providing a desired dynamic torque of the selected joint; and e) determining said commanded input joint position of the selected joint corresponding to said desired dynamic torque from said desired dynamic torque, said closed loop position transfer function and said effective servo transfer function. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said dynamic open loop joint torque to position transfer function is a physical transfer function of said selected joint. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said dynamic open loop joint torque to position transfer function is an idealized transfer function of said selected joint. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said dynamic open loop joint torque to position transfer function differs substantially from a physical transfer function of said selected joint. 5. A robotic control method for a position controlled robot, the method comprising: selecting two or more joints of the robot; and providing desired torque inputs to each of the selected joints as corresponding position inputs according to the method of claim 1. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said closed loop position transfer function of said selected joint of the robot is given by a function T(s) of complex frequency s, wherein said dynamic open loop joint torque to position transfer function relating to said selected joint is given by a function H(s), and wherein said effective servo transfer function of said selected joint is given by a function E(s). 7. A robotic control system comprising: a) a position controlled robot having a closed loop position transfer function of a selected joint of the robot relating a commanded input joint position to an actual joint position; b) a processor including a torque to position converter, wherein said torque to position converter is capable of providing said commanded input joint position corresponding to a desired dynamic torque of the selected joint according to a method comprising: selecting a dynamic open loop joint torque to position transfer function relating to the selected joint; determining a corresponding effective servo transfer function of the selected joint from said closed loop position transfer function and said dynamic open loop torque to position transfer function; and determining said commanded input joint position of the selected joint corresponding to said desired dynamic torque from said desired dynamic torque, said closed loop position transfer function and said effective servo transfer function. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said open loop joint torque to position transfer function relating to said selected joint is a physical transfer function of said selected joint. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein said open loop joint torque to position transfer function relating to said selected joint is an idealized transfer function of said selected joint. 10. The system of claim 7, wherein said open loop joint torque to position transfer function relating to said selected joint differs substantially from a physical transfer function G(s) of said selected joint. 11. The system of claim 7, wherein said closed loop position transfer function of said selected joint of the robot is given by a function T(s) of complex frequency s, wherein said dynamic open loop joint torque to position transfer function relating to said selected joint is given by a function H(s), and wherein said effective servo transfer function of said selected joint is given by a function E(s). 