A robotic appliance with a joystick sensor and associated methods of operation are provided. In one embodiment, the robotic appliance includes: a housing, a joystick sensor configured to provide sensed signals that vary as the robotic appliance traverses a surface area and comes in contact with an obstacle, a controller adapted to receive the sensed signals, wherein the controller determines the direction of the obstacle in relation to the robotic appliance and an x-y plane corresponding to the surface area based on the sensed signals and controls the robotic appliance based on the direction of the obstacle, a propelling mechanism, and a bumper that defines a periphery for a front section and a rear section of the robotic appliance in the x-y plane, wherein the bumper is in operative communication with the joystick sensor so that movement of the bumper in relation to the housing varies the sensed signals.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic appliance, including: a housing; a joystick sensor mounted to the housing and configured to provide one or more sensed signals that vary as the robotic appliance traverses a surface area and comes in contact with an associated obstacle; a propelling mechanism mounted to the housing and in communication with the controller, wherein the propelling mechanism moves the robotic appliance over the surface area; a bumper that defines a periphery for at least a front section and a rear section of the robotic appliance in an x-y plane corresponding to the surface on which the robotic appliance is positioned, wherein the bumper is in operative communication with the joystick sensor so that movement of the bumper in relation to the housing varies the one or more sensed signals provided by the joystick sensor; and a controller mounted to the housing and adapted to receive the one or more sensed signals from the joystick sensor, wherein the controller determines the direction of the associated obstacle in relation to the x-y plane, based at least in part on the one or more sensed signals and controls an operation of the propelling mechanism based at least in part on the direction of the obstacles; the joystick sensor including: a two-axis potentiometer joystick including a spring-activated return-to-center shaft; and a head attached to the shaft. 2. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 1 wherein the one or more sensed signals vary in a manner that at least indicates the direction of the obstacle in relation to the robotic appliance and the x-y plane. 3. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 1 wherein the bumper is movably secured to the housing to permit the bumper to move up to a predetermined distance in relation to the housing in at least the x-y plane when the bumper comes in contact with the obstacle. 4. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 1 wherein the bumper is formed by multiple sections. 5. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 1, further including: a brush roll assembly received by the housing and in operative communication with the controller, wherein the controller controls operation of the brush roll assembly; and a dirt cup assembly releasably received by the housing to receive and collect dirt and dust when the brush roll assembly is operated. 6. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 1, further including: a vacuum/dirt cup assembly releasably received by the housing, the vacuum/dirt cup assembly including a suction motor in operative communication with the controller and a dirt cup assembly in operative communication with a nozzle and the suction motor to receive and collect dirt and dust when the suction motor is operated. 7. The robotic appliance of claim 1 wherein the bumper includes a socket oriented toward the housing and movement of the socket is generally consistent with movement of the bumper and wherein the joystick sensor is positioned on the housing so that at least a portion of the head is within the socket such that the shaft on the joystick sensor is moved when the robotic appliance comes in contact with the obstacle. 8. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 1, further including: a plurality of bumper springs interposed between the housing and the bumper for spacing the bumper from the housing and resiliently biasing the bumper toward a predetermined normal position in relation to the housing; and a plurality of brackets secured to the bumper to moveably secure the bumper to the housing and permit restricted movement of the bumper in relation to the housing in the x-y plane. 9. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 1 wherein the bumper includes at least one socket oriented toward the housing and movement of the socket is generally consistent with movement of the bumper, wherein the housing includes a corresponding boss positioned on the housing so that at least a portion of the boss is within the associated socket, and wherein each socket and boss combination restrict movement of the bumper in relation to the housing in at least the x-y plane. 10. A robotic appliance, including: a housing; a joystick sensor mounted to the housing and configured to provide one or more sensed signals that vary as the robotic appliance traverses a surface area and comes in contact with an associated obstacle, wherein the joystick sensor includes a shaft and a biasing member for urging the shaft to a center position; a propelling mechanism mounted to the housing and in communication with the controller, wherein the propelling mechanism moves the robotic appliance over the surface area; a bumper that defines at least a portion of a periphery of the robotic appliance in an x-y plane corresponding to the surface on which the robotic appliance is positioned, wherein the bumper is in operative communication with the joystick sensor so that movement of the bumper in relation to the housing varies the one or more sensed signals provided by the joystick sensor; and a controller mounted to the housing and adapted to receive the one or more sensed signals, wherein the controller determines the direction of the obstacle in relation to the x-y plane, based at least in part on the one or more sensed signals and controls an operation of the propelling mechanism to move away from the associated obstacle in response to the contact with the associated obstacle and to continue traversing the surface so as to avoid the associated obstacle based at least in part on the direction of the associated obstacle. 11. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 10 wherein the one or more sensed signals vary in a manner that at least indicates the direction of the obstacle in relation to the robotic appliance and the x-y plane. 12. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 10 wherein the bumper is movably secured to the housing to permit the bumper to move up to a predetermined distance in relation to the housing in at least the x-y plane when the bumper comes in contact with the obstacle. 13. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 10 wherein the bumper is formed by multiple sections. 14. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 10, further including: a brush roll assembly received by the housing and in operative communication with the controller, wherein the controller controls operation of the brush roll assembly; and a dirt cup assembly releasably received by the housing to receive and collect dirt and dust when the brush roll assembly is operated. 15. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 10, further including: a vacuum/dirt cup assembly releasably received by the housing, the vacuum/dirt cup assembly including a suction motor in operative communication with the controller and a dirt cup assembly in operative communication with the suction motor and the surface area to receive and collect dirt and dust when the suction motor is operated. 16. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 10, the joystick sensor including: a head mounted on the shaft. 17. The robotic appliance of claim 16 wherein the bumper includes a socket oriented toward the housing and movement of the socket is generally consistent with movement of the bumper and wherein the joystick sensor is positioned on the housing so that at least a portion of the head is within the socket such that the shaft on the joystick sensor is moved when the robotic appliance comes in contact with the obstacle. 18. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 10, further including: a plurality of bumper springs interposed between the housing and the bumper for spacing the bumper from the housing and resiliently biasing the bumper toward a predetermined normal position in relation to the housing; and a plurality of brackets secured to the bumper to moveably secure the bumper to the housing and permit restricted movement of the bumper in relation to the housing in the x-y plane. 19. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 10 wherein the bumper includes at least one socket oriented toward the housing and movement of the socket is generally consistent with movement of the bumper, wherein the housing includes a corresponding boss positioned on the housing so that at least a portion of the boss is within the associated socket, and wherein each socket and boss combination restrict movement of the bumper in relation to the housing in at least the x-y plane. 20. A robotic appliance for performance of a desired task while traversing a surface area, the robotic appliance including: a housing; a return-to-center joystick sensor mounted to the housing and configured to provide one or more sensed signals that vary as the robotic appliance traverses a surface area and comes in contact with an associated obstacle; a propulsion mechanism mounted to the housing; a cleaning element mounted to the housing; first control means for powering up the robotic appliance; second control means for selecting an operating mode for the robotic appliance; third control means for starting operation of the robotic appliance; processing means mounted to the housing and adapted to receive the one or more sensed signals in communication with the first, second, and third control means, propulsion mechanism, and cleaning element for: i) controlling the propulsion mechanism to move the robotic appliance over the surface area based at least in part on the operating mode selected, ii) controlling the cleaning element to perform the desired task based at least in part on the operating mode selected, iii) determining when the robotic appliance comes in contact with the obstacle and at least a direction of the obstacle in relation to the robotic appliance and an x-y plane corresponding to the surface area, and iv) controlling the robotic appliance in response to the contact with the obstacle; and a bumper that defines a periphery for at least a front section and a rear section of the robotic appliance in the x-y plane, wherein the bumper is in operative communication with the joystick sensor so that movement of the bumper in relation to the housing varies the one or more sensed signals provided by the joystick sensor. 21. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 20, further including: means for varying the one or more sensed signals in a manner that at least indicates the direction of the obstacle in relation to the robotic appliance and the x-y plane. 22. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 20, further including: a resilient member for biasing the bumper toward a predetermined normal position in relation to the housing. 23. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 20, the cleaning element including: a brush roll assembly received by the housing and in operative communication with the controller; and a dirt cup assembly releasably received by the housing to receive and collect the dirt and dust when the brush roll assembly is operated. 24. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 20, the cleaning element including: a vacuum/dirt cup assembly releasably received by the housing, the vacuum/dirt cup assembly including: a suction motor in operative communication with the controller; and a dirt cup assembly in operative communication with the suction motor and the surface area to receive and collect dirt and dust when the suction motor is operated. 25. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 20 wherein the bumper is movably secured to the housing to permit the bumper to move up to a predetermined distance in relation to the housing in at least the x-y plane when the bumper comes in contact with the obstacle. 26. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 20 wherein the bumper is formed by multiple sections. 27. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 20 wherein the bumper includes at least one socket oriented toward the housing and movement of the socket is generally consistent with movement of the bumper, wherein the housing includes a corresponding boss positioned on the housing so that at least a portion of the boss is within the associated socket, and wherein each socket and boss combination restrict movement of the bumper in relation to the housing in at least the x-y plane. 28. A robotic appliance for performance of a desired task traversing a surface area, the robotic appliance including: a housing; a resiliently biased return-to-center joystick sensor mounted to the housing and configured to provide one or more sensed signals that vary as the robotic appliance traverses a surface area and comes in contact with an obstacle; traction means mounted to the housing; functional means mounted to the housing; a bumper that defines a periphery of the robotic appliance in an x-y plane corresponding to the surface area, wherein the bumper is in operative communication with the joystick sensor so that movement of the bumper in relation to the housing varies the one or more sensed signals provided by the joystick sensor; first control means for powering up the robotic appliance; second control means for selecting an operating mode for the robotic appliance; third control means for starting operation of the robotic appliance; and processing means mounted to the housing and adapted to receive the one or more sensed signals in communication with the traction means, functional means, and first, second, and third control means for: i) controlling the traction means to propel the robotic appliance over the surface area based at least in part on the operating mode selected, ii) controlling the functional means to perform the desired task based at least in part on the operating mode selected, iii) determining when the robotic appliance comes in contact with the obstacle and at least a direction of the obstacle in relation to the robotic appliance and the x-y plane based at least in part on the one or more sensed signals, and iv) controlling movement of the robotic appliance to move away from the obstacle in response to the contact with the obstacle in response to the contact with the obstacle and to continue traversing the surface area so as to avoid the obstacle based at least in part on the direction of the obstacle. 29. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 28, further including: means for varying the one or more sensed signals in a manner that at least indicates the direction of the obstacle in relation to the robotic appliance and the x-y plane. 30. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 28, further including: means for resiliently biasing the bumper toward a predetermined normal position in relation to the housing. 31. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 28, the functional means including: a brush roll assembly received by the housing and in operative communication with the controller; and a dirt cup assembly releasably received by the housing to receive and collect the dirt and dust when the brush roll assembly is operated. 32. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 28, the functional means including: a vacuum/dirt cup assembly releasably received by the housing, the vacuum/dirt cup assembly including: a suction motor in operative communication with the controller; and a dirt cup assembly in operative communication with the suction motor and the surface area to receive and collect dirt and dust when the suction motor is operated. 33. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 28 wherein the bumper is movably secured to the housing to permit the bumper to move up to a predetermined distance in relation to the housing in at least the x-y plane when the bumper comes in contact with the obstacle. 34. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 28 wherein the bumper is formed by multiple sections. 35. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 28 wherein the bumper includes at least one socket oriented toward the housing and movement of the socket is generally consistent with movement of the bumper, wherein the housing includes a corresponding boss positioned on the housing so that at least a portion of the boss is within the associated socket, and wherein each socket and boss combination restrict movement of the bumper in relation to the housing in at least the x-y plane. 36. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 20, the joystick sensor including: a two-axis potentiometer joystick including a spring-activated return-to-center shaft; and a head mounted on the shaft. 37. The robotic appliance as set forth in claim 28, the joystick sensor including: a two-axis potentiometer joystick including a spring-activated return-to-center shaft; and a head mounted on the shaft. 