An apparatus including a micro-mechanical calibration member having at least a portion that is elastically biasable away from a neutral position in response to mechanical contact. The apparatus may also include a fixed member proximate the micro-mechanical calibration member which may be referenced to automatically detect deflection of the micro-mechanical calibration member away from the neutral position. The micro-mechanical calibration member may also be configured to receive a micro-mechanical contacting member to provide the mechanical contact employed to bias the micro-mechanical calibration member away from the neutral position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a substrate; a first layer located on the substrate; a second layer located over the first layer; and calibration means, wherein the calibration means includes an elastically deformable member comprising at least a portion of the second layer and having at least one feature dimension other than thickness that is less than about 50 microns, wherein the elastically deformable member is elastically deformable in response to contact with a micro-mechanical end-effector having at least one feature dimension that is less than about 50 microns. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the elastically deformable member is displaceable between a neutral position and a deflected position. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the neutral position is a predetermined position relative to the substrate. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the calibration means includes a reference feature that is stationary relative to the substrate. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the elastically deformable member and the reference feature each include detection features by which an orientation of the elastically deformable member relative to the reference feature may be determined. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the detection features are edges of the elastically deformable member and the reference feature. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a micro-mechanical device having a predetermined orientation relative to the calibration means, wherein the micro-mechanical device has at least one feature dimension other than thickness that is less than about 50 microns. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a micro-mechanical device assembled to the substrate at a predetermined location relative to the calibration means, wherein the micro-mechanical device has at least one feature dimension other than thickness that is less than about 50 microns. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of micro-mechanical devices each having a predetermined orientation relative to the calibration means, wherein at least one of the plurality of micro-mechanical devices has at least one feature dimension other than thickness that is less than about 50 microns. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the calibration means includes a plurality of elastically deformable members. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the calibration means includes a stationary portion coupled to the substrate by a portion of the first layer, the stationary portion being at least indirectly coupled to the elastically deformable member, and wherein a gap separates at least a portion of the elastically deformable member from the substrate such that at least a portion of the elastically deformable member is mobile relative to the substrate, the gap having a thickness substantially equal to at least about a thickness of the first layer. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a micro-electro-mechanical device having a predetermined orientation relative to the substrate, wherein the micro-electro-mechanical device has at least one feature dimension other than thickness that is less than about 50 microns. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a micro-electro-mechanical system having a predetermined orientation relative to the substrate, wherein the micro-electro-mechanical system has at least one feature dimension other than thickness that is less than about 50 microns. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein: the elastically deformable member is elastically deformable between first and second orientations; the second orientation is angularly offset relative to the first orientation; and the angular offset is detectable by machine vision detection. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a fixed member that is immobile relative to the substrate, wherein: the elastically deformable member is biased to a neutral position that is fixed relative to the fixed member; the elastically deformable member is configured to receive a micro-mechanical contacting member having at least one feature dimension that is less than about 50 microns; and the elastically deformable member is elastically deformable away from the neutral position in response to mechanical contact from the micro-mechanical contacting member. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein: the fixed member includes a first detection enhancement feature; and the elastically deformable member includes a second detection enhancement feature; wherein a relative orientation of the first and second detection enhancement features is automatically detectable. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the first detection enhancement feature comprises an edge of the fixed member and the second detection enhancement feature is an edge of the elastically deformable member, wherein the first and second detection enhancement features each comprise a portion of a detection enhancement layer. 18. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the relative orientation of the first and second displacement detection features is automatically detectable by visual imaging. 19. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the elastically deformable member comprises a resilient member coupled to a displaceable member, wherein the resilient member has a first end that is fixed relative to the fixed member and a second end that is coupled to the displaceable member such that the displaceable member is elastically displaceable relative to the fixed member, wherein the displaceable member is configured to receive the micro-mechanical contacting member. 20. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the micro-mechanical contacting member is a micro-mechanical end-effector having at least one feature dimension that is less than about 50 microns. 