A method is provided for restricted update sharing of removable media in a media library. Media is allowed to be retrieved from storage slots of a media library and moved to a drive in a restricted update mode. The media includes short term attributes that include short term media data structures, and long term attributes. A file system includes short term memory and long term memory associated with the media. Updates to the long term attributes and long term memory are restricted. Updates to the short term attributes and the short term memory are allowed. The short term memory of the file system is refreshed each time the media is moved to the drive, which includes changing data in the short term memory back to an original state and rebuilding the data in the short term memory from the media data structures of the short term attributes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for restricted update sharing of removable media in a media library, comprising: allowing media to be retrieved from storage slots of a media library and moved to a drive in a restricted update mode, wherein the media comprises: short term attributes that include short term media data structures, and long term attributes; providing a file system comprising a short term memory and a long term memory associated with the media; restricting updates to the long term attributes of the media; restricting updates to the long term memory of the file system, wherein the long term memory corresponds to the long term attributes of the media; allowing updates to the short term attributes of the media; allowing updates to the short term memory of the file system, wherein the short term memory corresponds to the short term attributes of the media; and refreshing the short term memory of the file system each time the media is moved to the drive, wherein refreshing the short term memory of the file system comprises: changing data in the short term memory of the file system back to an original state for the data in the short term memory; and rebuilding the data in the short term memory of the file system from the media data structures of the short term attributes each time the media is moved to the drive. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: allowing a plurality of servers to access the media of the media library in the restricted update mode, wherein: the plurality of servers each comprise their associated file system, and the plurality of servers each respectively update their short term memory by making changes thereto; and refreshing respectively the short term memory for at least one of the plurality of servers each time the media is moved to the drive. 