A wafer processing system and method in which a wafer, having a diameter, is movable between a loadlock and a processing chamber. A transfer chamber is arranged for selective pressure communication with the loadlock and the processing chamber. The transfer chamber having a configuration of lateral extents such that the wafer is movable through the transfer chamber between the loadlock and processing chamber along a wafer transfer path and the configuration of lateral extents causes the wafer, having the wafer diameter and moving along the wafer transfer path, to interfere with at least one of the loadlock and the processing chamber for any position along the wafer transfer path. The wafer includes a center and the wafer transfer path cab be defined by movement of the center through the transfer chamber. Swing arms are described that can independently move by different angles in opposing directions from a home position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for processing wafers comprising: at least one loadlock including a wafer station wherein said wafer station is configured for supporting said wafers in a column within the loadlock; a transfer chamber in selective pressure communication with said loadlock; a processing chamber including at least one processing station such that the processing chamber is in selective communication with said transfer chamber and said wafers can be transferred between the loadlock and the processing chamber through the transfer chamber; and a swing arm arrangement including at least one swing arm that is pivotally supported in said transfer chamber and having a distal end that is configured for rotationally moving said wafers between the wafer station in the loadlock and the processing station, said swing arm being positionable in a home position within said transfer chamber, when said loadlock and said processing chamber are both in pressure isolation from said transfer chamber, and configured for swinging said distal end a first angular displacement in one direction from the home position to said wafer station such that any horizontal component of movement of the distal end from the home position to the wafer station is along one portion of a semicircular path and for swinging said distal end a second angular displacement in an opposite direction from said home position to said processing station such that any horizontal component of movement of the distal end from the home position to the processing station is along another portion of the semicircular path and the first angular displacement is different from said second angular displacement such that the loadlock and the processing chamber are simultaneously pressure isolatable from the transfer chamber and from one another substantially only when the swing arm is in the home position and said swing arm is configured for transporting said wafers directly into and out of said column by reaching into the loadlock and wherein said swing arm is configured for placing and picking said wafers to and from said processing station. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said first angular displacement is less than said second angular displacement. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein each swing arm is limited to providing transfer of said wafers on a radial path that extends in a plan view between one processing station in the processing chamber and said wafer station in the loadlock. 4. The system of claim 1 wherein said loadlock and said processing chamber are arranged on a pair of opposite sidewalls of said transfer chamber which opposite sidewalls partially form a peripheral boundary of the transfer chamber such that the processing chamber and the loadlock are each adjacent to one of the opposite sidewalls outside of the transfer chamber and so that the distal end of the swing arm can pick and place one of said wafers at either one of the wafer station in the loadlock and the processing station in the processing chamber. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein the swing arm pivots around no more than one axis of rotation such that any lateral movement of the distal end in a plan view is limited to a circular motion around the axis of rotation. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein said semicircular path serves as a wafer transfer path between the wafer station in the loadlock and the processing station in the processing chamber and includes the home position therebetween. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein said swing arm is at least generally rigid in extending from a pivot axis to said distal end during the rotational movement such that the distal end moves on the semicircular path. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said swing arm is configured for laterally moving the wafer only by rotation about said pivot axis. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein said swing arm arrangement is receivable in the transfer chamber at said home position in pressure isolation from said processing chamber without supporting said wafers and, when the swing arm arrangement otherwise supports at least one wafer at the home position, that wafer extends at least partially into the loadlock such that the loadlock is not pressure isolatable from the transfer chamber. 10. The system of claim 9 wherein said loadlock and said transfer chamber cooperate to define a first slit aperture for transferring said wafers therethrough between the loadlock and the transfer chamber, and said transfer chamber and said processing chamber cooperate to define a second slit aperture for transferring said wafers therethrough between the transfer chamber and the processing chamber, said first slit aperture and said second slit aperture being arranged on opposing sides of the transfer chamber with respect to one another and at least approximately parallel with one another and said transfer arrangement includes one or more wafer paddles each one of which is configured for supporting one of said wafers such that each wafer paddle extends at least partially into the first slit aperture at said home position. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein said wafers each include a wafer diameter and wherein each wafer paddle is configured for supporting one of said wafers having said wafer diameter and said system further comprising: a first slit door supported in said loadlock and configured for movement between a first sealed position and a first open position such that the loadlock is pressure sealed from the transfer chamber with the first slit door in the first sealed position; and a second slit door supported in said transfer chamber and configured for movement between a second sealed position and a second open position such that the transfer chamber is pressure sealed from the processing chamber with the second slit door in the second sealed position and each wafer paddle is receivable at said home position laterally between the first and second slit doors in said first and second sealed positions while said wafer diameter is not laterally receivable between said first and second slit doors in said first and second sealed positions when one of the wafers is supported by one of the wafer paddles in the home position. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein said processing chamber includes a pair of side-by-side first and second process stations defining a process station center line extending through a first center of the first process station and a second center of the second process station and each process station is configured for applying the treatment process to one of said wafers, and a line of symmetry extends between the process stations normal to said process station center line, said wafer station is configured for supporting at least one of said wafers laterally offset from said process station center line and located on said line of symmetry, and said swing arm arrangement includes at least a first swing arm and a second swing arm, each of which defines an at least generally rigid elongation axis and each of which pivots about a first pivot axis and a second pivot axis, respectively, located between the wafer station and the process station center line, and each of the first swing arm pivot axis and the second swing arm pivot axis is equally offset from said line of symmetry on opposite sides thereof to define a pivot axis center line that is parallel to the process chamber center line and normal to said line of symmetry and, at said home position, the elongation axis of the first swing arm is substantially parallel to the elongation axis of the second swing arm with the first swing arm extending toward the second pivot axis of the second swing arm and the elongation axis of the second swing arm extending toward the first pivot axis of the first swing arm. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein said wafer station is configured for supporting a plurality of said wafers at least generally in a stacked relationship to form said column. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the first process station, the second process station, the first axis, the second axis and the wafer column cooperate to define a pentagonal shape in a plan view. 15. In a system for processing wafers at least including a load lock having a wafer station and a processing chamber having a processing station, an improvement comprising: a transfer arrangement including a transfer chamber in selective pressure communication with said loadlock and said processing chamber, said transfer chamber including a swing arm arrangement having at least a first swing arm and a second swing arm configured for coaxial rotation about a common axis of rotation and each swing arm includes a wafer paddle for supporting one of said wafers thereon for use in rotationally transporting the wafers along a semicircular transfer path between the wafer station in the loadlock and the processing station in the processing chamber, said first and second swing arms being configured so that one of the swing arms can rotate one wafer paddle on the transfer path toward the processing station while the other one of the swing arms independently rotates another wafer paddle on the transfer path toward the wafer station and each of the first and second swing arms moves each wafer paddle through a home position in rotating between the wafer station and the processing station with the first swing arm and the second swing arm being positionable in said home position within the transfer chamber such that the load lock and the processing chamber are simultaneously pressure isolatable from the transfer chamber and from one another substantially only when the swing arms are in the home position, and the wafer station is reached by rotating through a first angular offset from the home position such that any horizontal component of movement of each wafer paddle from the home position to the wafer station is along one portion of the semicircular path with the processing station being reached by rotating through a second angular offset from the home position such that any horizontal component of movement of each wafer paddle from the home position to the processing station is along another portion of the semicircular path and the first angular offset is different from the second angular offset; and said wafer station is configured for supporting said wafers in a column and each swing arm is configured for transporting said wafers into and out of said column by reaching directly into said loadlock with each wafer paddle and each swing arm configured for placing and picking the wafers to and from said processing station by reaching directly into said processing chamber with each wafer paddle. 16. The improvement of claim 15 wherein the first angular offset is less than the second angular offset. 17. The improvement of claim 15 wherein the first and second swing arms, in said home position, support a first one and a second one of said wafers, respectively, in a way which provides for sensing the presence of at least one of the first and second ones of the wafers. 18. The improvement of claim 17 further comprising: a sensor arrangement for sensing the presence of at least one of the first and second wafers when supported in a side-by-side generally spaced apart relationship. 19. In a system for processing wafers at least including a load lock having a wafer station and a processing chamber having a processing station, an improvement comprising: a transfer arrangement including a transfer chamber in selective pressure communication with said loadlock and said processing chamber and said transfer chamber including a swing arm arrangement having at least a first swing arm and a second swing arm configured for coaxial rotation about a common axis of rotation and each swing arm includes a wafer paddle for supporting one of said wafers thereon for use in rotationally transporting the wafers along a semicircular transfer path between the wafer station in the loadlock and the processing station in the processing chamber wherein said semicircular transfer path serves as a wafer transfer path between the wafer station in the loadlock and the processing station in the processing chamber and includes a home position, said first and second swing arms being configured so that one of the swing arms can rotate one wafer on the semicircular transfer path toward the processing station while the other one of the swing arms independently rotates another wafer on the semicircular transfer path toward the wafer station with the first swing arm and the second swing arm being positionable in said home position within the transfer chamber such that the loadlock and the processing chamber are simultaneously pressure isolatable from the transfer chamber and from one another substantially only when the swing arms are in the home position and any lateral component of movement of each wafer paddle is on the semicircular transfer path and said swing arm arrangement includes a drive arrangement at least for simultaneously selectively rotating the first swing arm and the second swing arm paddles at different angular velocities on the semicircular transfer path such that one of the swing arms rotates one paddle between the home position and the wafer station at one angular velocity while the other swing arm rotates another paddle between the home position and the processing station at another, different angular velocity so that rotating the swing arms oppositely from the home position causes one of the swing arms to arrive at the processing station while the other one of the swing arms simultaneously arrives at the wafer station; and said wafer station is configured for supporting said wafers in a column and each swing arm is configured for transporting said wafers into and out of said column by reaching directly into said loadlock with each wafer paddle and each swing arm is configured for placing and picking the wafers to and from said processing station by reaching directly into said processing chamber with each wafer paddle. 20. The improvement of claim 13 wherein each swing arm pivots only around said common axis of rotation such that any lateral movement of each wafer paddle in a plan view is limited to a circular motion on the semicircular transfer path around the common axis of rotation. 21. The improvement of claim 15 wherein said semicircular transfer path serves as a wafer transfer path between the loadlock and the processing chamber and includes the home position therebetween. 22. The improvement of claim 15 wherein each swing arm is at least generally rigid in extending from the common axis of rotation to its wafer paddle during the rotational movement such that the paddle moves on the semicircular path. 23. The improvement of claim 22 wherein each swing arm is configured for laterally moving the wafer only by a circular rotation about said common axis. 24. The improvement of claim 19 wherein each swing arm pivots only around said common axis of rotation such that any lateral movement of each wafer paddle in a plan view is limited to a circular motion on the semicircular transfer path around the common axis of rotation. 25. The improvement of claim 19 wherein each swing arm is at least generally rigid in extending from the common axis of rotation to its wafer paddle during the rotational movement such that the paddle moves on the semicircular path. 26. The improvement of claim 25 wherein each swing arm is configured for laterally moving the wafer only by a circular rotation about said common axis. 27. In a system for processing wafers at least including a load lock having a wafer station and a processing chamber having a processing station, an improvement comprising: a transfer arrangement including a transfer chamber in selective pressure communication with said loadlock and said processing chamber and said transfer chamber including a swing arm arrangement having at least a first swing arm and a second swing arm configured for coaxial rotation about a common axis of rotation and each swing arm includes a wafer paddle for supporting one of said wafers thereon for use in rotationally transporting the wafers along a semicircular transfer path between the wafer station in the loadlock and the processing station in the processing chamber, said first and second swing arms being configured so that one of the swing arms can rotate one wafer paddle on the semicircular transfer path from a home position toward the processing station while the other one of the swing arms independently rotates another wafer paddle on the semicircular transfer path from the home position toward the wafer station with the first swing arm and the second swing arm being positionable in said home position within the transfer chamber when said transfer chamber is in pressure isolation from both the processing chamber and the loadlock such that the loadlock and the processing chamber are simultaneously pressure isolatable from the transfer chamber and from one another substantially only when the swing arms are in the home position and any lateral component of movement of each wafer paddle is on the semicircular transfer path and said swing arm arrangement includes a drive arrangement at least for selectively rotating the paddles of the first swing arm and the second swing arm in opposite directions from the home position on the semicircular path by different angular amounts; and said wafer station is configured for supporting said wafers in a column and each swing arm is configured for transporting said wafers into and out of said column by reaching directly into said loadlock with each wafer paddle and each swing arm is configured for placing and picking the wafers to and from said processing station by reaching directly into said processing chamber with each wafer paddle. 28. The improvement of claim 27 wherein said first swing arm and said second swing arm each rotate at least approximately at the same given angular velocity in said opposite directions in relation to the home position such that one of the swing arms rotates for a first length of time from the home position to reach the wafer station and the other one of the swing arms rotates for a second length of time, that is different from the first length of time, from the home position to reach the processing station. 29. The improvement of claim 28 wherein said drive arrangement includes a first motor for selectively rotating said first swing arm and a second motor for selectively rotating said second swing arm, independent of the rotation of the first swing arm. 30. The improvement of claim 27 wherein said semicircular transfer path serves as a wafer transfer path between the wafer station in the loadlock and the processing station in the processing chamber such that each swing arm pivots only around said common axis of rotation and any lateral movement of each wafer paddle in a plan view is limited to a circular motion on the semicircular transfer path around the common axis of rotation. 31. The improvement of claim 27 wherein each swing arm is at least generally rigid in extending from the common axis of rotation to its wafer paddle during the rotational movement such that the paddle moves on the semicircular path. 32. The improvement of claim 31 wherein each swing arm is configured for laterally moving the wafer only by a circular rotation about said common axis. 