A method and apparatus for constructing spatial representations of referents is provided. The method and apparatus have application in any area where a spatial representation of a referent is required. Examples are image processing and machine vision. In image processing the "referents" are signal sources which are being viewed by an image processing sensor, eg CCD array. The image sources will be points in a scene, for example. Currently available image systems must be aware of the relative positions of the image sensors. In prior art image systems, this information is usually provided a priori. In the present invention, no a priori information on the arrangement of the image sensors is required. Instead, a geometrical representation of the referents is produced by obtaining signals from the referents and utilizing the signals in order to provide the geometrical representation. The geometrical representation is built up purely from the signals provided by the sensors themselves. The invention assumes that behavioral differences between signals for any two referents imply a distance between the referents, and this assumption is utilized in order to build up the geometrical representation of the referents.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of producing a geometrical representation of a plurality of referents in space, comprising a step of obtaining signals from a plurality of referents and a step of uti lising the signals in order to provide the geometrical representation of the referents, wherein the step of utilising the signals includes predicating that differences in the signals from the referents imply an actual distance between the referents, in accordance with a theory of spatial redundancy, predicating that the differences in signals are related to the actual distance between the referents by a monotonically increasing function, predicating that the differences (b) in signals implies an actual distance (a) between the associated referents, and utilising the signal differences (b) to determine a geometrical distance (g) for locators constituting the geometrical representation, wherein the geometrical distance (g) is a function of the actual distance (a). 2. The in accordance with claim 1, wherein the step of obtaining signals includes the step of obtaining signals from sensors associated with the referents. 3. The in accordance with claim 2, wherein the referents are the sensors. 4. The in accordance with claim 3 wherein the sensors are one or more of the following type of sensor; light, pressure, sound, heat, motion, infrared, tension, radiation, sonar, range-finder, chemical, physical, electromagnetic, protein and molecular. 5. The in accordance with claim 2, wherein the referents are sources being measured by the sensors. 6. The in accordance with claim 1, wherein the step of utilising the signals comprises the further steps of quantifying an error (.epsilon.) in the geometrical representation of the referents, and repositioning locators by changing the geometrical distance (g) between locators, with the intention of reducing .epsilon.. 7. The in accordance with claim 6, wherein the step of utilising the signals to provide the geometrical representations of the referents, includes the step of repeating the method steps of claim 6 periodically. 8. The in accordance with claim 6, wherein the step of utilising the signals to provide the geometrical representation of the referents includes the steps of repeating the method steps of claim 6 continuously. 9. The in accordance with claim 8, wherein the step of repositioning the locators is implemented by way of a hill climbing algorithm. 10. The in accordance with claim 9, wherein, the hill climbing algorithm utilised is the gradient descent method. 11. The in accordance with claim 8, wherein the step of repositioning locators, includes the step of determining a momentum of locators within the geometrical representation, and repositioning the locators in dependence on the momentum. 12. The in accordance with claim 11 wherein the sensors are one or more of the following type of sensor; light, pressure, sound, heat, motion, infrared, tension, radiation, sonar, range-finder, chemical, physical, electromagnetic, protein and molecular. 13. The in accordance with claim 6, wherein the step of repositioning locators includes the step of sampling the possible population of referents and repositioning the locators corresponding to the sampled referents. 14. The in accordance with claim 13, wherein the step of sampling the possible population of referents, includes the step of sampling pairs of referents from a set of all possible parts of referents. 15. The in accordance with claim 14, wherein each pair of referents comprises a unit and wherein the number of units utilised comprises the workforce, the step of utilising the signals comprising the further step of determining a size of workforce to be used to provide signals to provide the geometrical representation of the referents. 16. The in accordance with claim 15, wherein the step of determining the size of the workforce includes the step of determining that the workforce will be a complete workforce, wherein there is one unit for each possible pair of referents. 17. The in accordance with claim 15, wherein the step of determining the size of the workforce includes the step of determining that the workforce will be an incomplete workforce, wherein the number of units is less than the number of all possible pairs of referents. 18. The in accordance with claim 17, wherein the workforce is constituted by an ordered selection of pairs of referents. 19. The in accordance with claim 18, wherein the workforce is constituted from samples of pairs of referents which are selected in accordance with their utility in effecting the geometrical representation of the referents. 20. The in accordance with claim 19, comprising the further step of reselecting pairs of referents to be included in the workforce in an evolving fashion on the basis of their utility. 21. The in accordance with claim 20, wherein a unit is considered to have a high utility, and is therefore more likely to be selected, if the signal difference b or the geometrical distance g of the unit is relatively small. 22. The in accordance with claim 20, wherein a unit is considered to have low utility, and is more likely to be deselected, if the signal difference b or the geometrical distance g of the unit is relatively large. 23. The in accordance with claim 17, wherein the workforce is constituted from random samples of pairs of referents. 24. The in accordance with claim 17, wherein the workforce is constituted from samples of pairs of referents which are selected in accordance with their utility in effecting the geometrical representation of the referents. 25. The in accordance with claim 15, wherein the step of utilising the signals comprises the further step of storing historical information about the difference (b) in signals of a unit. 26. The in accordance with claim 25, wherein the step of utilising the signal differences (b) to determine geometrical distance (g) for locators includes the step of utilising the historical information. 27. The in accordance with claim 1, wherein the step of utilising the signals comprises the further step of determining a statistic, .mu., which is a measure of the expected behavioural difference between signals from a pair of referents where there is no correlation between signals. 28. The in accordance with claim 27, wherein signal difference (b) values that are greater than .mu. are not utilised. 29. The in accordance with claim 27, wherein signal difference (b) values that are close to or at the value of .mu. are not utilised. 30. The in accordance with claim 27, wherein the steps of determining the statistic .mu., includes the step of determining .mu. for a pair or a subset of all possible pairs of referents. 31. The in accordance with claim 27, wherein the step of determining the statistic .mu., includes the step of determining .mu. for all possible pairs of referents. 32. The in accordance with claim 1, wherein each referent may provide a plurality of separate types of signal, providing a signal value for each type. 33. The in accordance with claim 32, wherein each separate type of signal is treated as being associated with a separate referent, and a geometrical representation is provided for each type. 34. The in accordance with claim 33, wherein a separate locator is provided for each type of signal, and the separate locators are then geometrically combined to produce a single locator. 35. The in accordance with claim 34, wherein the plurality of separate types are combined and treated as a single signal value. 36. The in accordance with claim 1, wherein for an n dimensional space of the referents, the method of utilising the signal comprises the step of providing n+m dimensional space within which to organise the geometrical representation. 37. The in accordance with claim 36, comprising the further step of subsequently reducing the geometrical representation to n dimensions. 38. The in accordance with claim 1, wherein for an n dimensional space of the referents, the method of utilising the signal comprises the step providing n-m dimensional space for the geometrical representation. 39. The in accordance with claim 1, wherein the referents are sources of data. 40. The in accordance with claim 39, wherein the sources of data are provided from a database. 41. The in accordance with claim 39, wherein the referents are sources of data relating to non-physical domains. 42. The in accordance with claim 1, wherein the referents are associated with motor commands for a motor sub-system. 43. The in accordance with claim 42, wherein the step of providing the geometrical representation includes the step of providing a geometrical representation of a plurality of sensors and providing a geometrical representation of the motor commands combined with the geometrical representation of the plurality of sensors. 44. The in accordance with claim 43, wherein the step of providing the positional representation of each motor command includes the step of dividing the motor command into a plurality of sub-motor commands, and positioning a locator for each of the sub-motor commands in the geometrical representation. 45. The in accordance with claim 1, wherein the referents are biological neurons. 46. A computer program embodied in a computer readable medium, for controlling a computer to implement the in accordance with claim 1. 47. An apparatus for producing a geometrical representation of a plurality of referents in space, comprising means for obtaining signals from a plurality of referents and means for utilising the signals in order to provide the geometrical representation of the referents, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to predicate that differences in the signals from the referents imply an actual distance between the referents, in accordance with a theory of spatial redundancy, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to predicate that the differences in signals are related to the actual distance between the referents by a monotonically increasing function and wherein the means for utilising the signals in order to provide a geometrical representation of the referents, is arranged to predicate that the differences (b) in signals implies an actual distance (a) between the associated referents, and is arranged to utilise the signal differences (b) to determine a geometrical distance (g) for locators constituting the geometrical representation, wherein the geometrical distance (g) is a function of the actual distance (a). 48. The in accordance with claim 47, wherein means for obtaining signals includes sensors associated with the referents. 49. The in accordance with claim 48, wherein the referents are the sensors. 50. The in accordance with claim 49 wherein the sensors are one of more of the following type of sensor; light, pressure, sound, heat, motion, infrared, tension, radiation, sonar, range-finder, chemical, physical, electromagnetic, protein and molecular. 51. The in accordance with claim 48, wherein the referents are sources being measured by the sensors. 52. The in accordance with claim 51 wherein the sensors are one of more of the following type of sensor; light, pressure, sound, heat, motion, infrared, tension, radiation, sonar, range-finder, chemical, physical, electromagnetic, protein and molecular. 53. The in accordance with claim 47, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to quantify an error (.epsilon.) in the geometrical representation of the referents, and reposition locators by changing the geometrical distance (g) between locators, with the intention of reducing .epsilon.. 54. The in accordance with claim 53, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to sample the possible population of referents and reposition the locators corresponding to the sampled referents. 55. The in accordance with claim 54, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to sample pairs of referents from a set of all possible parts of referents. 56. The in accordance with claim 55, wherein each pair of referents comprises a unit and wherein the number of units utilised comprises the workforce, the means for utilising the signals being arranged to determine a size of workforce to be used to provide signals to provide the geometrical representation of the referents. 57. The in accordance with claim 56, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to determine that the workforce will be a complete workforce, wherein there is one unit for each possible pair of referents. 58. The in accordance with claim 57, wherein a unit is considered to have low utility, and is more likely to be deselected, if the signal difference b or the geometrical distance g of the unit is relatively large. 59. The in accordance with claim 56, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to determine that the workforce will be an incomplete workforce, wherein the number of units is less than the number of all possible pairs of referents. 60. The in accordance with claim 59, wherein the workforce is constituted by an ordered selection of pairs of referents. 61. The in accordance with claim 59, wherein the workforce is constituted from random samples of pairs of referents. 62. The in accordance with claim 61, wherein the workforce is constituted from samples of pairs of referents which are selected in accordance with their utility in effecting the geometrical representation of the referents. 63. The in accordance with claim 61, wherein the workforce is constituted from samples of pairs of referents which are selected in accordance with their utility in effecting the geometrical representation of the referents. 64. The in accordance with claim 62, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to reselect pairs of referents to be included in the workforce in an evolving fashion on the basis of their utility. 65. The in accordance with claim 64, wherein a unit is considered to have a high utility, and is therefore more likely to be selected, if the signal difference b or the geometrical distance g of the unit is relatively small. 66. The in accordance with claim 56, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to store historical information about the difference (b) in signals of a unit. 67. The in accordance with claim 66, wherein the means for utilising the signal differences (b) to determine geometrical distance (g) for locators is arranged to utilise the historical information. 68. The in accordance with claim 53, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to quantify the error (.epsilon.) and reposition the locators periodically. 69. The in accordance with claim 53, wherein the means for utilising the signals to provide the geometrical representation of the referents is arranged to quantify the error (.epsilon.) and reposition the locators continuously. 70. The in accordance with claim 69, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to apply a hill climbing algorithm. 71. The in accordance with claim 70, wherein the hill climbing algorithm utilised is the gradient descent method. 72. The in accordance with claim 47, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to determine a statistic, .mu., which is a measure of the expected difference between signals from a pair of referents where there is no correlation between signals. 73. The in accordance with claim 72, wherein signal difference (b) values that are greater than .mu. are not utilised. 74. The in accordance with claim 72, wherein signal difference (b) values that are close to or at the value of .mu. are not utilised. 75. The in accordance with claim 72, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to determine .mu. for a pair or a subset of all possible pairs of referents. 76. The in accordance with claim 72, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to determine .mu. for all possible pairs of referents. 77. The in accordance with claim 47, wherein each referent may provide a plurality of separate types of signal, and wherein the means for obtaining signals is arranged to obtain a signal value for each type. 78. The in accordance with claim 77, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to treat each separate type of signal as being associated with a separate referent, and to provide a geometrical representation is provided for each type. 79. The in accordance with claim 77, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to provide a separate locator for each type of signal, and to geometrically combine the separate locators to produce a single locator. 80. The in accordance with claim 77, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to combine the plurality of separate types and treat them as a single signal value. 81. The in accordance with claim 47, wherein for an n dimensional space of the referents, the means for utilising the signal is arranged to provide n+m dimensional space within which to organise the geometrical representation. 82. The in accordance with claim 81, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to subsequently reduce the geometrical representation to n dimensions. 83. The in accordance with claim 47, wherein for an n dimensional space of the referents, the means for utilising the signal is arranged to provide an n-m dimensional space for the geometrical representation. 84. The in accordance with claim 47, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to determine a momentum of locators within the geometrical representation, and reposition the locators in dependence on the momentum. 85. The in accordance with claim 47, wherein the referents are sources of data. 86. The in accordance with claim 85, wherein the sources of data are provided from a database. 87. The in accordance with claim 85, wherein the referents are sources of data relating to non-physical domains. 88. The in accordance with claim 47, wherein the referents are associated with motor commands for a motor sub-system. 89. The in accordance with claim 88, wherein the means for utilising the signals is arranged to provide a geometrical representation of a plurality of sensors and to provide a geometrical representation of the motor commands combined with the geometrical representation of the plurality of sensors. 90. The in accordance with claim 47, wherein the referents are biological neurons. 91. A system comprising a motor sub-system and a sensor sub-system, and a means for calibrating the motor sub-system to the sensor sub-system, which is arranged to provide a positional representation associated with a motor command in a geometrical representation provided by the sensor sub-system. 92. A mobile robotic apparatus, comprising a system in accordance with claim 91. 