A geometric end effector system for use on a robot. The system includes a platform and a frame secured to the platform. At least one base is arranged at a predetermined position on the frame. The system also has an anchor mount secured to the base and a component connected to an end of the anchor mount by a collar assembly. A key is arranged between the component and the anchor mount.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A geometric end effector system, said system including: a platform; a frame secured to said platform; a plurality of bases arranged at predetermined positions on said frame; an anchor mount secured to at least one of said bases; a component connected to said anchor mount by a collar assembly; and a key arranged between said component and said anchor mount. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein said key is a cross key that ensures no rotation occurs between said component and said anchor mount. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein said anchor mount having a breakaway point or region. 4. The system of claim 3 wherein said anchor mount having a flange with a plurality of grooves arranged at predetermined intervals from one another. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein said flange having four grooves with 90.degree. intervals arranged therebetween. 6. The system of claim 4 wherein said breakaway region is arranged adjacent to said flange. 7. The system of claim 3 wherein said breakaway point generally occurs at an intersection of a flange and a cylindrical member of said anchor mount. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein said breakaway point is defined by a reduced thickness of material or any other known weakening methodology or technique at said intersection. 9. The system of claim 1 wherein said component is a boom or junction member. 10. The system of claim 9 further including accessory members secured to said boom, said junction member or said anchor mount. 11. The system of claim 1 wherein said collar assembly including a first and second collar half, said halves having a semi circular circumferential groove on an inner diameter thereof, said groove having a first and second angled surface, said angled surfaces will urge flanges of said anchor mount and said component into engagement with each other. 12. The system of claim 11 wherein each of said angled surfaces having an angle of approximately 15.degree. from a centerline of said collar assembly. 13. The system of claim 9 wherein said boom having a breakaway point arranged at a predetermined position thereon. 14. The system of claim 1 further including at least one locating ball, said locating ball allows for the end effector system to be precisely aligned and held in a predetermined position. 15. An end effector or fixture system for use on a robot, said system including: a frame; at least one anchor mount secured to said frame, said anchor mount having a breakaway point that will fail when a predetermined force engages the end effector system allowing for quick recovery of the robot through replacement of said anchor mount; a component connected to said anchor mount by a collar assembly; and a key arranged between said component and said anchor mount. 16. The system of claim 15 further including a platform secured to said frame. 17. The system of claim 15 further including at least one base arranged at a predetermined position on said frame. 18. The system of claim 15 wherein said key is a cross key. 19. The system of claim 15 wherein said anchor mount having a flange and a cylindrical member, said flange having at least one groove, said key is arranged in said groove to rotatably fix said component with respect to said anchor mount. 20. The system of claim 15 wherein said component is a boom or junction member. 21. The system of claim 20 further including accessory members secured to said boom, said junction member, or said anchor mount. 22. The system of claim 21 wherein said junction member and said accessory member having an orifice and tool ball for calibrating the position of said members with respect to the end effector system. 23. A method of assembling a geometric end effector system for use on a robot, said method including the steps of: securing at least one breakaway anchor mount to a base, said base secured to a frame of the end effector system; fastening a boom or junction member to an end of said anchor mount with a collar assembly and a key; fastening an accessory member to an end of said boom or said junction member; and securing said frame to the robot. 