An apparatus and method of recycling exhaust tubes used to manufacture optical fiber includes the automated use of 1) a machine vision system that signals a conveyor system when to stop so that a cutting machine will cut contaminates and discoloration from an exhaust tube at the correct place and provides an indication on whether the exhaust tube is reusable, 2) a conveyor system to transport reusable exhaust tubes to different stations, and 3) a robotic arm to load exhaust tubes onto the conveyor system, and unload exhaust tubes from the conveyor system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of recycling a plurality of exhaust tubes used in manufacturing optical fiber, comprising the steps of: determining, using image processing, which of said plurality of exhaust tubes are reusable; transporting, using a first mechanized transport means, reusable exhaust tubes to a cutting station; cutting, at a prescribed angle, one edge of each of said reusable exhaust tubes received at said cutting station such that identified contaminates and discoloration that cannot be cleaned are removed from said edge of each of said reusable exhaust tubes, wherein a position for said cutting of said one edge of each of said reusable exhaust tubes to remove said identified contaminates and discoloration is determined via said image processing; transporting, using a second mechanized transport means, said reusable exhaust tubes to a cleaning station; and automatically cleaning said reusable exhaust tubes received at said cleaning station. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said determining step further comprises the step of measuring a length of each of said plurality of exhaust tubes and determining whether said length exceeds a minimum required length for reuse of an exhaust tube. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said determining step further comprises the step of inspecting each of said plurality of exhaust tubes having an acceptable length for reuse. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of said first mechanized transport means and said second mechanized transport means is selected from the group consisting of a conveyor belt and a robotic arm. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein said transporting step further comprises the steps of: stopping said first mechanized transport means at said cutting station; positioning said reusable exhaust tubes for said cutting; and starting said first mechanized transport means after said reusable exhaust tubes have been cut. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said transporting step further comprises the steps of: stopping said second mechanized transport means at said cleaning station; removing said reusable exhaust tubes from said second mechanized transport means into a cleaning tub; and loading said reusable exhaust tubes onto said second mechanized transport means after said exhaust tubes have been cleaned. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said first mechanized transport means and said second mechanized transport means are the same type of transport mechanism. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein said first mechanized transport means and said second mechanized transport means are under the control of said image processing. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said cleaning step further comprises the steps of: placing, under the control of said image processing, each of said reusable exhaust tubes onto at least one brush in a cleaning tub; scrubbing each of said reusable exhaust tubes in said cleaning tub with chemicals for a predetermined interval; and rinsing each of said reusable exhaust tubes in said cleaning tub at least one time. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said cleaning step further comprises the step of closing a cover of said cleaning tub under the control of said image processing. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein said at least one brush is operable to rotate inside each of said reusable exhaust tubes for said predetermined interval and said exhaust tubes are held in a fixed position. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein said scrubbing step occurs in a first compartment of said cleaning tub and said rinsing step occurs in a second compartment of said cleaning tub. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said reusable exhaust tubes have different diameters and respective ones of said reusable exhaust tubes are placed, under the control of said image processing, onto respective correspondingly sized brushes in a cleaning tub. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein each of said reusable exhaust tubes are operable to rotate for a predetermined interval and said at least one brush is held in a fixed position. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein said prescribed angle is 90 degrees. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein said transporting step further comprises the step of lifting and moving one exhaust tube at a time. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein each of said transporting steps occur at a variable speed. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein said first mechanized transport means and said second mechanized transport means are responsive to signals supplied via said image processing. 