A method is disclosed for enhancing the operational capacity of a hobby servo having an internal potentiometer and internal components that limit a rotational capacity. The method comprises disconnecting the internal potentiometer, modifying the internal components to increase the rotational capacity, and connecting the hobby servo to an external potentiometer. The method further comprises operably connecting the hobby servo to an auxiliary shaft that is displaced from the hobby servo, connecting the external potentiometer to the auxiliary shaft, and utilizing feedback from the external potentiometer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for extending the operational capacity of a hobby servo having an internal potentiometer and internal components that limit a rotational capacity, comprising: disconnecting the internal potentiometer; modifying the internal components to increase the rotational capacity; connecting the hobby servo to an external potentiometer; operably connecting the hobby servo to an auxiliary shaft that is displaced from the hobby servo; connecting the external potentiometer to the auxiliary shaft; and utilizing feedback from the external potentiometer as a basis for proportionally controlling the auxiliary shaft. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising mounting the hobby servo and the auxiliary shaft within a single support frame. 3. The method of claim 2 further comprising mounting the single support frame within an operational environment. 4. The method of claim 2 further comprising connecting the auxiliary shaft to an operational load. 5. The method of claim 4 further comprising controlling the operational load with a motor associated with the hobby servo based on a signal received by the servo motor, the signal corresponding to a rotational status of the auxiliary shaft. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the feedback utilized to proportionally control the auxiliary shaft is data related to rotational control of the auxiliary shaft. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the feedback utilized to proportionally control the auxiliary shaft is data related to position control of the auxiliary shaft. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the external potentiometer has a rotational range of less than one hundred and eighty angular degrees. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the external potentiometer has a rotational range greater than one hundred and eighty angular degrees. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the external potentiometer facilitates proportional control of the auxiliary shaft utilizing a coded input signal. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein operably connecting the hobby servo to an auxiliary shaft comprises: attaching an output gear to the output shaft; and attaching an auxiliary gear to the auxiliary shaft, wherein the output gear and the auxiliary gear are operably engaged. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the output gear has a greater diameter than the auxiliary gear. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the output gear has a smaller diameter than the auxiliary gear. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein operably connecting the hobby servo to an auxiliary shaft comprises: attaching an enhancement sprocket to the output shaft; attaching an auxiliary gear to the auxiliary shaft; operably engaging a chain with the enhancement sprocket; and operably engaging the chain with the auxiliary gear. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the enhancement sprocket has a greater diameter than the auxiliary gear. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein operably connecting the hobby servo to an auxiliary shaft comprises: attaching an enhancement sprocket to the output shaft, wherein the enhancement sprocket is configured to engage a belt; attaching an auxiliary gear to the auxiliary shaft, wherein the auxiliary gear is configured to engage a belt; operably engaging a belt with the enhancement sprocket; and operably engaging the belt with the auxiliary gear. 17. The method of claim 1 further comprising attaching a mechanical item to the auxiliary shaft. 18. The method of claim 17 further comprising actuating the mechanical item. 19. The method of claim 1 wherein modifying the internal components to increase the rotational capacity comprises removing a mechanical stopping mechanism. 20. A method for extending the operational capacity of a hobby servo having an internal potentiometer and internal components that limit a rotational capacity, comprising: disconnecting the internal potentiometer; modifying the internal components to increase the rotational capacity; connecting the hobby servo to an external potentiometer; operably connecting the hobby servo to an auxiliary shaft that is displaced from the hobby servo; connecting the auxiliary shaft to the external potentiometer; connecting the auxiliary shaft to an operational load; and utilizing feedback from the external potentiometer as a basis for controlling the operational load. 21. A method for extending the operational capacity of a hobby servo having an internal potentiometer and internal components that limit a rotational capacity, comprising: disconnecting the internal potentiometer; modifying the internal components to increase the rotational capacity; connecting the hobby servo to an external potentiometer; attaching an auxiliary gear to an auxiliary shaft wherein the auxiliary shaft is displaced from the hobby servo; attaching an output gear to a hobby servo output shaft wherein the output gear has a smaller diameter than the auxiliary gear; operably connecting the output gear to the auxiliary gear; connecting the auxiliary shaft to the external potentiometer; utilizing feedback from the external potentiometer as a basis for controlling the auxiliary shaft; and wherein extending the operational capacity includes extending the torque and rotational capacities of the hobby servo. 