Fastener delivery apparatus for automatically selecting and delivering fasteners such as rivets to a setting tool. The fasteners are pre-loaded in a package and dispense via at least one fastener delivery tube that interconnects the setting tool to a fastener feeder device. The fastener feeder device releases selected fasteners from the package into the delivery tube. The fasteners are transportable individually or in groups in the tube from the feeder device to the tool. A transfer station attached to the tool or the delivery tube transfers a fastener from the delivery apparatus into the tool, the transfer station being moveable between a first position in which an exit of the transfer station is adjacent to the tool so that a delivered fastener may be inserted by the transfer station into the tool and a second position in which it is clear of the tool so as to permit the tool or a portion thereof to move towards a workpiece to insert a loaded fastener. The delivery tube has wear resistant elements. The apparatus allows smooth, rapid and reliable delivery of fasteners of various sizes and types to the nose of a setting tool in any particular order and provides all the fastener types for any particular work cycle.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Fastener supply apparatus for a fastener setting tool comprising at least one fastener delivery tube for interconnecting the setting tool and a fastener reservoir, the fasteners being transportable individually or in groups in the tube from the reservoir towards the tool, an intermediate buffer disposed between the delivery tube and the tool for temporarily storing a plurality of fasteners, the buffer having an outlet that is connectable to the tool, the delivery tube being releasably connectable to said intermediate buffer by a docking device, wherein the docking device has a first portion connected to an outlet end of the delivery tube and a second portion connected to an inlet end of the intermediate buffer, the first and second portions being movable relative to each other to engage and provide a fastener path between the tube and the buffer. 2. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first portion has a fastener gate that is closed by a biasing member when the first and second portions are disengaged and is opened against the force of the biasing member when the first and second portions are engaged. 3. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein there is provided a transfer station for transferring a fastener delivered from the outlet of the buffer into a fastener delivery passage in a nose of the tool. 4. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the buffer has an escapement mechanism at its outlet. 5. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the buffer is disposed adjacent to said tool. 6. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the buffer is in the form of a magazine. 7. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the delivery tube is flexible. 8. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein there is provided at least one source of compressed air that is connected to said delivery tube and which supplies the air to the tube so as to propel the fasteners along the tube. 9. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein there is more than one buffer. 10. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the docking device operates automatically. 11. Fastener supply apparatus for a fastener setting tool comprising at least one fastener delivery tube for interconnecting the setting tool and a fastener reservoir, the Fasteners being transportable individually or in groups in the tube from the reservoir towards the tool, an intermediate buffer magazine disposed between the delivery tube and the tool for temporarily storing a plurality of fasteners, the buffer having an inlet and an outlet, an escapement mechanism disposed at the outlet for selectively releasing one or more fasteners from the buffer and delivering said one or more fasteners to the tool, the delivery tube being releasably connectable to said inlet of said intermediate buffer by a docking device, wherein the docking device has a first portion at the outlet of the delivery tube and a second portion at the inlet of the intermediate buffer magazine, the first and second portions being movable relative to each other to engage and provide a fastener path between the tube and the buffer. 12. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the first portion has a fastener gate that is closed by a biasing member when the first and second portions are disengaged and is opened against the force of the biasing member when the first and second portions arc engaged. 13. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 11, wherein there is provided a transfer station for transferring a fastener delivered from the outlet of the buffer into a fastener delivery passage in a nose of the tool. 14. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the buffer is disposed adjacent to said tool. 15. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the delivery tube is flexible. 16. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 11, wherein there is provided at least one source of compressed air that is connected to said delivery tube and which supplies the air to the tube so as to propel the fasteners along the tube. 17. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 11, wherein there is more than one buffer magazine. 18. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the docking device operates automatically. 19. Fastener supply apparatus for a fastener setting tool comprising at least one fastener delivery tube for interconnecting the setting tool and a fastener reservoir, the fasteners being transportable individually or in groups in the tube from the reservoir towards the tool, an intermediate buffer magazine disposed between the delivery tube and the tool for temporarily storing a plurality of fasteners, the buffer having an inlet and an outlet, the delivery tube being releasably connectable to said inlet of said intermediate buffer by an automatic docking device, the outlet of the buffer magazine being connectable to said tool, the docking device having a fastener retention gate that is closed when the delivery tube and buffer are disengaged and is opened when the delivery tube and buffer are engaged. 20. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the gate is biased to the closed position by a biasing member. 21. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the docking device has a first portion connected to, or at, the outlet of the delivery tube and a second portion connected to, or at, the inlet of the intermediate buffer, the first and second portions being movable relative to each other to engage and provide a fastener path between the tube and the buffer. 22. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 19, wherein there is provided a transfer station for transferring a fastener delivered from the outlet of the buffer into a fastener delivery passage in a nose of the tool. 23. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the buffer has an escapement mechanism at its outlet. 24. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the buffer is disposed adjacent to said tool. 25. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the delivery tube is flexible. 26. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 19, wherein there is provided at least one source of compressed air that is connected to said delivery tube and which supplies the air to the tube so as to propel the fasteners along the tube. 27. Fastener supply apparatus according to claim 19, wherein there is more than one buffer. 