In a method or system for minimally-invasive therapy on a patient, a minimally-invasive therapy apparatus is provided. While performing the minimally-invasive therapy on the patient with a minimally-invasive therapy apparatus, the patient is ventilated with a jet ventilator to reduce a magnitude of the patient's breathing and increase a frequency of the patient's breathing.
Claims I claim as my invention: 1. A method for minimally-invasive therapy on a patient, comprising the steps of: providing a minimally-invasive therapy apparatus comprising a medical tool inserted into the patient; providing a jet ventilator; while performing the minimally-invasive therapy on the patient with the minimally-invasive therapy equipment ventilating the patient with the jet ventilator to reduce a magnitude of the patient's breathing and increase a frequency of the patient's breathing; and synchronizing operation of the minimally-invasive therapy apparatus comprising said medical tool insertion with the jet ventilator by connecting a signal output of the jet ventilator having signals indicative of respiration breathing control to said minimally-invasive therapy equipment. 2. A method of claim 1 wherein the jet ventilator has a signal output connected to control an interface for a movement sensor and evaluation unit for movement. 3. A method of claim 2 wherein said interface connects to a data bus also connected to an image processing unit. 4. A method of claim 3 wherein the jet ventilator connects through an interface to an image correction unit. 5. A method of claim 4 wherein the image correction unit has gating controlled by a waveform of the jet ventilator. 6. A method of claim 4 wherein said image correction unit is connected to a data bus also connected to a display unit for imaging. 7. A method of claim 3 wherein a robot control unit is also connected to said data bus, said robot control unit connecting to a patient-proximal control unit for an x-ray system and a needle robot. 8. A method of claim 1 including providing an imaging device for imaging the patient to assist in performing the minimally-invasive therapy. 9. A method of claim 8 wherein said imaging device comprises an x-ray machine. 10. A method of claim 8 wherein the x-ray machine comprises a robotic x-ray detector with a C-shaped arm on which an x-ray radiator and detector are mounted. 11. A method of claim 8 wherein the ventilator has a signal output connected to an image system for at least partially controlling the image system based on ventilation by the jet ventilator. 12. A method of claim 1 wherein guidance of the medical tool is observed by use of an imaging system. 13. A method of claim 12 wherein the jet ventilator has a signal output connected through an interface to the imaging system. 14. A method of claim 1 wherein the medical tool comprises a needle inserted into the patient. 15. A method of claim 1 wherein the minimally-invasive therapy medical tool comprises a needle being inserted into a tumor in the patient. 16. A method of claim 1 wherein said jet ventilator is connected through an interface to a physiological signal processing unit. 17. A method of claim 1 wherein said physiological signal processing unit is connected to a data bus, said data bus also connecting to an image processing unit for imaging. 18. A system for minimally-invasive therapy on a patient, comprising: a minimally-invasive therapy apparatus comprising a medical tool inserted into the patient; a jet ventilator for ventilating said patient to reduce a magnitude of the patient's breathing and increase a frequency of the patient's breathing while performing the minimally-invasive therapy on the patient; and a control unit for said minimally-invasive therapy apparatus which receives a signal output of the jet ventilator having signals indicative of respiration breathing control to synchronize said medical tool insertion into the patient with the jet ventilator. 19. A system of claim 18 wherein further including an imaging device for imaging the patient while the minimally-invasive therapy apparatus is performing the therapy. 20. A system of claim 18 wherein the ventilator has a signal output connected to an imaging system for at least partially controlling the imaging system based on ventilation by the jet ventilator. 21. A system of claim 18 wherein the medical tool comprises a needle. 22. A system according to claim 18 wherein guidance of the medical tool is observed by use of an imaging system. 23. A system of claim 18 wherein the medical tool comprises a needle inserted into a tumor in the patient. 