A space transportation propellant depot has multiple locations, sources and capabilities. Maximizing known mature technologies coupled with realistic industrial techniques results in the incremental development of a propellant source on the moon. Propellant depots are economically driven locations with defined services, sources of propellant and innovation in the pursuit of transportation related commerce as mankind explores for resources beyond Earth.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An orbital propellant depot system, comprising: a low Earth orbit propellant depot that is supplied with propellant from an Earth based source, the low Earth orbit propellant depot storing propellant and refueling vehicles; and a lunar orbit propellant depot that is supplied with propellant from a lunar propellant source, the lunar orbit propellant depot storing propellant and refueling spacecraft. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising another propellant depot located at Lagrange point one, the Lagrange point one propellant depot storing propellant and refueling spacecraft. 3. The system of claim 1, in which the low Earth orbit propellant depot comprises a basic frame structure having expansion connectors. 4. The system of claim 3, in which the low Earth orbit propellant depot further comprises at least one salvaged launch vehicle stage having a second use attachment. 5. The system of claim 1, in which the low Earth orbit propellant depot comprises cryogenic storage. 6. The system of claim 5, in which the cryogenic storage comprises a sunshade. 7. The system of claim 5, in which the cryogenic storage comprises a plurality of magnetic suspension plates supporting a cryogenic tank. 8. The system of claim 1, in which the low Earth orbit propellant depot comprises a tether system. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a ring tank system including a plurality of propellant tanks that can circumscribe a salvaged vehicle to increase the tankage of the salvaged vehicle, the ring tank system comprising rotational propellant feed lines and rotational propellant vent lines. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a lunar lander that transports payload to and from a lunar surface and docks with the low Earth orbit propellant depot and/or the lunar orbit propellant depot. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the lunar lander is docked, standardized payload containers are transferred via a space containerized cargo system. 12. The system of claim 10, further comprising a lunar surface space truss that is transported within a standardized payload container by the lunar lander, the lunar surface space truss, once assembled, receiving payload from the lunar lander and lowering the received payload to the lunar surface. 13. The system of claim 10, further comprising a lunar surface utility vehicle comprising a cargo lifter, the lunar surface utility vehicle receiving payload from the lunar lander and lowering the received payload to the lunar surface. 14. The system of claim 1, further comprising a lunar rover miner that excavates regolith, heats the regolith to extract gaseous oxygen and gaseous hydrogen and other resources, and stores the extracted gas within tanks. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising a lunar utility vehicle having a material handling jib that facilitates collecting the gas tanks from the lunar surface after the lunar rover miner has filled the tanks and left the filled tanks on the lunar surface. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising a lunar processing plant that converts the extracted gas into cryogenic propellants, the cryogenic propellants comprising the lunar propellant source. 