The invention relates to alpha amylases and to polynucleotides encoding the alpha amylases, and methods of making and using them. In addition methods of designing new alpha amylases and methods of use thereof are also provided. The alpha amylases have increased activity and stability at increased pH and temperature.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide comprising: (a) an amino acid sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:2, wherein the polypeptide has alpha-amylase activity; (b) a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO: 1, wherein the polypeptide has alpha-amylase activity; or (c) an amino acid sequence comprising an enzymatically active fragment of the polypeptide of (a) or (b). 2. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide having alpha amylase activity comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 97% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:2, or an enzymatically active fragment thereof. 3. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide having alpha amylase activity comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2, or an enzymatically active fragment thereof. 4. A protein preparation comprising (a) the polypeptide of claim 1, or (b) the protein preparation of (a), wherein the protein preparation comprises a liquid or a solid protein preparation. 5. The isolated, synthetic or recombinant polypeptide of claim 1, further comprising at least one glycosylation site. 6. A composition comprising the polypeptide of claim 1. 7. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide having alpha-amylase activity, wherein the polypeptide is encoded by a nucleic acid that hybridizes under conditions of high stringency to the full complement of SEQ ID NO:1, wherein the conditions of high stringency comprise a wash step comprising 15 minutes at 72.degree. C. in a solution comprising 150 mM NaCl, 20 mM Tris hydrochloride, pH 7.8, 1 mM Na.sub.2EDTA, 0.5% SDS. 8. An isolated, synthetic, or recombinant polypeptide comprising: (a) an amino acid sequence having at least 95% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:2, and having at least one or more conservative amino acid substitutions, deletions or insertions, wherein the polypeptide has alpha amylase activity, wherein the conservative amino acid substitutions comprise: substitution of a isoleucine, valine, leucine or methionine for another; substitution of arginine for lysine, glutamic acid for aspartic acid or glutamine for asparagine, and having an alpha amylase activity; or (b) an amino acid sequence comprising an enzymatically active fragment of (a). 9. A method of hydrolyzing a polysaccharide or oligosaccharide linkage comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) contacting a substance containing the polysaccharide or oligosaccharide with the polypeptide of claim 1, under conditions which facilitate the hydrolysis of the polysaccharide or oligosaccharide linkage. 10. A method for washing an object comprising (i) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (ii) contacting said object with the polypeptide of claim 1 under conditions sufficient for said washing. 11. A method for textile desizing comprising (i) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (ii) contacting a textile with the polypeptide of claim 1 under conditions effective for said desizing. 12. A method for treatment of lignocellulosic fibers comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) contacting the lignocellulosic fibers with the polypeptide of claim 1, under conditions effective for hydrolyzing the lignocellulosic fibers, thereby modifying a property of the lignocellulosic fiber. 13. A method for producing a high-maltose, a high-glucose syrup or a mixed syrup comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) liquefying a polysaccharide or oligosaccharide using an effective amount of a polypeptide of claim 1 to obtain a soluble polysaccharide or oligosaccharide hydrolysate; and saccharifying the soluble polysaccharide or oligosaccharide hydrolysate, thereby producing a high-maltose, a high-glucose syrup or a mixed syrup. 14. A method for making ethanol comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, (b) contacting a polysaccharide-comprising or oligosaccharide-comprising composition with the polypeptide of claim 1, to produce a sugar, and (c) fermenting the sugar of (b) to produce ethanol. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the method further comprises contacting the polysaccharide-comprising or oligosaccharide-comprising composition with a second polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, or a beta amylase, or another enzyme. 16. A method for corn wet milling comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) contacting a corn or a corn starch with the polypeptide of (a) under conditions sufficient for the polypeptide to hydrolyze an oligosaccharide or a polysaccharide in the corn or corn starch. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises addition of a second polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, or a beta amylase, or another enzyme. 18. A dry milling process comprising: (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) contacting a whole ground grain with the polypeptide of (a), under conditions sufficient for the polypeptide to hydrolyze an oligosaccharide or a polysaccharide in the whole ground grain. 19. The dry milling process of claim 18, wherein the process further comprises addition of a second polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, or a beta amylase, or another enzyme. 20. A process for preparing a dough, or a baked product prepared from the dough, comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) adding the polypeptide to the dough. 21. A process for retarding the staling of a dough, a bread, or a baked product prepared from the dough, comprising (a) providing the polypeptide of claim 1, and (b) adding the polypeptide to the dough, bread, or baked product in an amount which is effective to retard the staling of the bread, bread, or baked product. 22. The method of any one of claims 9, 13, or 14, wherein the polysaccharide or oligosaccharide is comprised in or derived from a starch, rice, germinated rice, corn, barley, wheat, legume, sweet potato, milo, sorghum, rye, bulger or a combination thereof. 23. The method of claim 12, wherein the lignocellulosic fibers are comprised in or derived from a starch, rice, germinated rice, corn, barley, wheat, legume, sweet potato, milo, sorghum, rye, bulger or a combination thereof. 24. The method of any one of claims 9, 12, or 13, wherein the method further comprises addition of a second polypeptide having alpha amylase activity, or a beta amylase, or another enzyme. 