Contact lens molds and systems and methods for producing contact lens molds are described. The contact lens mold sections include two optical quality surfaces, a flange circumscribing at least a portion of the two optical quality surfaces, and an elongate member extending from the flange. Two mold sections can contact one another to form a mold assembly having a contact lens shaped cavity. The mold sections are structured to form a contact lens having an edge that does not require further physical modification before placement on an eye. Systems and methods are described which direct a molten polymeric material into cavities corresponding to the mold sections.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A contact lens mold section, comprising: a single, unitary mold section body comprising a first optical quality surface structured as a negative of an optical quality anterior surface of a contact lens, a substantially opposing second optical quality surface structured as a negative of an optical quality posterior surface of a contact lens, a flange region circumscribing the first and second optical quality surfaces, and an elongated region extending substantially radially outwardly from the flange region, the elongated region includes a first portion having a substantially uniform width and a second portion having a diverging width, the second portion being adjacent the flange region and being thinner than the first portion of the elongated region, the single, unitary mold section body being structured to be operatively coupled to an additional contact lens mold section body to form a contact lens mold assembly defining a contact lens shaped cavity between the single, unitary mold section body and the additional contact lens mold section body. 2. The mold section of claim 1 wherein the first portion of the elongated region has a thickness of between about 0.5 mm and about 3.0 mm. 3. The mold section of claim 1 wherein the elongated region has a length greater than an outer diameter of the flange region. 4. The mold section of claim 3 wherein the length of the elongated region is at least about 15 mm. 5. The mold section of claim 3 wherein the length of the elongated region is between about 30 mm and about 35 mm. 6. The mold section of claim 1 further comprising indicia located on the elongated region. 7. The mold section of claim 6 wherein the indicia comprises a surface of the elongated region, the surface being roughened relative to another surface of the elongated region. 8. The mold section of claim 6 wherein the indicia comprises a machine readable surface. 9. The mold section of claim 1 wherein the flange region includes at least one non-circumferential recess. 10. The mold section of claim 9 wherein the recess extends into the flange region from a surface of the flange region contiguous with the second optical quality surface. 11. The mold section of claim 1 wherein the elongated region has a length and is substantially planar along the entire extent of the length thereof. 12. A mold assembly comprising: a first, unitary mold section and a second, unitary mold section structured substantially identically to the first, unitary mold section, each of the first and second, unitary mold sections comprising a first optical quality surface structured as a negative of an optical quality anterior surface of a contact lens, a substantially opposing second optical quality surface structured as a negative of an optical quality posterior surface of a contact lens, a flange region circumscribing the first and second optical quality surfaces, and an elongated region extending substantially radially outwardly from the flange region, the elongated region includes a first portion having a substantially uniform width and a second portion having a diverging width, the second portion being adjacent the flange region and being thinner than the first portion of the elongated region; and the first, unitary mold section and the second, unitary mold section being coupled so as to form a lens shaped cavity between the first optical quality surface of the first mold section and second optical quality surface of the second mold section. 13. The assembly of claim 12 wherein the coupled mold sections define a first region of contact located radially outwardly from the lens shaped cavity and a second region of contact located radially outwardly from the first region of contact. 