Artificial neurons and processing elements for artificial neurons are disclosed. One processing element generates a continuous value signal based on the first plurality of inputs and generates a responsiveness based on a second plurality of inputs. An output value determining portion generates an output signal that is equal to a predetermined value when the responsiveness signal corresponds to a non-responsive and equal to the continuous value signal when the responsiveness signal corresponds to a responsive state. Another processing element produces an output signal having a magnitude equal to zero except during a fixed time after an event when the output signal has a magnitude based on an event time.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A processing element for an artificial neuron, comprising: a first plurality of inputs; a continuous value determining portion configured to generate a continuous value signal based on the first plurality of inputs; a second plurality of inputs; a responsiveness determining portion configured to generate a responsiveness signal corresponding to either a responsive state or a non-responsive state based on the second plurality of inputs; and an output value determining portion configured to receive the continuous value signal and the responsiveness signal and generate an output signal, wherein the output signal is equal to a predetermined value when the responsiveness signal corresponds to the non-responsive state and the output signal is equal to the continuous value signal when the responsiveness signal corresponds to the responsive state, wherein the continuous value signal is equal to the multiplicative product of a first set of at least two inputs of the first plurality of inputs subtracted from the multiplicative product of a second set of at least two inputs of the first plurality of inputs. 2. The processing element of claim 1, wherein the responsiveness determining portion generates a threshold value based on a pair of inputs of the second plurality of inputs, wherein the responsiveness signal corresponds to the non-responsive state when a first input of the second plurality of inputs is less than the threshold value and the responsiveness signal corresponds to the responsive state when a second input of the second plurality of inputs is less than the threshold value. 3. The processing element of claim 2, wherein the state of the responsiveness signal does not change if the first input of the second plurality of inputs is greater than the threshold value and the second input of the second plurality of inputs is greater than the threshold value. 4. The processing element of claim 3, wherein the threshold value is based on a third input of the second plurality of inputs and a fourth input of the second plurality of inputs. 5. The processing element of claim 4, wherein the threshold value is equal to the third input subtracted from the fourth input. 6. The processing element of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of inputs and the second plurality of inputs have values corresponding to the concentrations of respective solutions of a plurality of solutions. 7. The processing element of claim 6, further comprising: an actuator configured to receive the output signal and change the concentration of an output solution based on the output signal. 