A method for identifying a catalyst composition for use in the heterogeneous Ziegler-Natta addition polymerization of an olefin monomer, said catalyst composition comprising a procatalyst comprising a magnesium and titanium containing procatalyst and a cocatalyst said method comprising: a) providing a library comprising at least one procatalyst compound, b) forming a catalyst composition library by contacting the member of said procatalyst library with one or more cocatalysts and contacting the resulting mixture with an olefin monomer under olefin polymerization conditions thereby causing the polymerization reaction to take place, c) measuring at least one variable of interest during the polymerization, and d) selecting the catalyst composition of interest by reference to said measured variable.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for identifying a catalyst composition comprising the steps of: A) providing a library comprising at least one procatalyst compound, B) forming a catalyst composition library by contacting the members of said procatalyst library with one or more cocatalysts and contacting the resulting mixture with an olefin monomer under olefin polymerization conditions thereby causing a polymerization reaction to take place, C) measuring at least one variable of interest during the polymerization, and D) selecting the catalyst composition of interest by reference to said measured variable; E) thereby identifying a catalyst composition for use in a heterogeneous Ziegler-Natta addition polymerization of one or more olefin monomers, wherein said catalyst composition comprises at least one said procatalyst comprising magnesium and titanium, and a cocatalyst, wherein said cocatalyst is formed by reaction of a compound of the formula: [M.sup.4A.sup.1.sub.x'G.sub.y'].sub.z', wherein: M.sup.4 is a metal selected from the group consisting of B, and Al; A.sup.1 is independently an anionic or polyanionic ligand; x' is a number greater than zero and less than or equal to 6; G is a neutral Lewis base, optionally bound to A.sup.1; y' is a number from 0-4; z' is a number from 1 to 10; With a compound of the formula: [(H-J.sup.1).sub.z''A.sup.2].sub.z''', wherein: J.sup.1 is NA.sup.3, PA.sup.3, S, or O; z'' is 1 or 2; A.sup.2 is C.sub.1-20 hydrocarbyl or inertly substituted hydrocarbyl, tri(C.sub.1-10hydrocarbyl)silyl, or a polyvalent derivative thereof; A.sup.3 is hydrogen, C.sub.1-20 hydrocarbyl or inertly substituted hydrocarbyl, or a covalent bond (when A.sup.2 is a divalent ligand group and z'' is one); and z''' is a number from 1 to 10. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the cocatalyst is formed by a process requiring at least one intermediate step or the cocatalyst is formed by reaction of two or more reagents. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the property of interest is catalytic activity. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein all of the process steps are conducted in the same reactor vessel by means of computer controlled, robotic processing and the screening results are stored in at least one memory device. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the library is used to form the A axis of an A.times.B array and a second selection of compositions or process conditions is used to form the B axis of said A.times.B array and relational database software is used to select the property of interest from among the set of binary pairs of said A.times.B array. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising measurement of at least one resulting polymer property. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the process variable that is measured is the quantity of at least one monomer consumed during the polymerization. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said cocatalyst is a alkyl aluminum composition selected from the group consisting of (t-butyldimethylsiloxy)di(i-butyl)aluminum, (t-butyldimethylsiloxy)di(n-octyl)aluminum, pentafluorophenoxydi(isobutyl)aluminum, pentafluorophenoxydi(n-octyl)aluminum, phenoxydi(i-butyl)aluminum, (3,5-dimethyl-2,4-pyrazol-1-yl)di(ethyl)aluminum, (3,5-dimethyl-2,4-pyrazol-1-yl)di(n-octyl)aluminum, and dodecyloxydi(n-octyl)aluminum or the mixture formed by reaction of approximately equal molar quantities of t-butyldi(methyl)hydroxysilane with tri(isobutyl)aluminum or tri(n-octyl)aluminum, pentafluorophenol with tri(isobutyl)aluminum or tri(n-octyl)aluminum, phenol with tri(isobutyl)aluminum, 3,5-dimethyl-1,4-pyrazole with triethylalumium or tri(n-octyl)aluminum, or dodecanol with tri(n-octyl)aluminum. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the procatalyst comprises the reaction product of magnesium dichloride, alkylaluminum dihalide and titanium alkoxide. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein ethylene and 1-octene are copolymerized. 