The present invention is directed to methods and compositions for evaluating nucleic acids, methods of preparing such compositions, and applications and business methods employing such compositions and methods. In particular, the present invention provides business methods for operating a gene expression measurement service.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of determining an amount of a first nucleic acid in a first sample, comprising: providing a standardized mixture comprising a competitive template for said first nucleic acid and a competitive template for a second nucleic acid in said first sample wherein said competitive templates are at known concentrations relative to each other; combining said first sample with said standardized mixture; co-amplifying said first nucleic acid and said competitive template for said first nucleic acid to produce first amplified product thereof; diluting said first amplified product; further co-amplifying said diluted first amplified product of said first nucleic acid and of said competitive template for said first nucleic acid, to produce second amplified product thereof; and co-amplifying said second nucleic acid and said competitive template for said second nucleic acid to produce first amplified product thereof. 2. A method for determining an amount of a first nucleic acid, comprising: providing a series of serially-diluted standardized mixtures comprising a competitive template for said first nucleic acid and a competitive template for a second nucleic acid present in a number of samples comprising said first nucleic acid, wherein said competitive templates are at known concentrations relative to each other; combining one of said samples comprising said first nucleic acid with a first one of said serially-diluted standardized mixtures; co-amplifying said first nucleic acid and said competitive template for said first nucleic acid to produce amplified product thereof; obtaining a first relationship, said first relationship comparing said amplified product of said first nucleic acid to said amplified product of said competitive template for said first nucleic acid; determining whether said first relationship is within about 1:10 to about 10:1; if not, repeating said combining, co-amplifying, obtaining and determining steps with a second one of said serially-diluted standardized mixtures; co-amplifying said second nucleic acid and said competitive template for said second nucleic acid to produce amplified product thereof; obtaining a second relationship, said second relationship comparing said amplified product of said second nucleic acid to said amplified product of said competitive template for said second nucleic acid; and comparing said first and said second relationships. 3. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: diluting said amplified product of said first nucleic acid and said competitive template for said first nucleic acid; and further co-amplifying said diluted amplified product to produce further amplified product thereof. 4. The method as recited in claim 1, farther comprising: diluting said amplified product of said second nucleic acid and said competitive template for said second nucleic acid; and further co-amplifying said diluted amplified product to produce farther amplified product thereof. 5. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprises performing a series of serial dilutions of a mixture comprising said second nucleic acid. 6. The method as recited in claim 5 wherein one of said serial dilutions is selected to provide said second nucleic acid approximately calibrated to said competitive template for said second nucleic acid in said first one of said serially-diluted standardized mixtures. 7. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein said second nucleic acid serves as a first reference nucleic acid. 8. The method as recited in claim 7 wherein said first reference nucleic acid is a control for loading. 9. The method as recited in claim 7 wherein said first reference nucleic acid corresponds to at least one gene selected from GADP, ACTB, and .beta.-actin. 10. The method as recited in claim 7 wherein said first reference nucleic acid is present at two different concentrations in two of said serially-diluted standardized mixtures. 11. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein said series of serially-diluted standardized mixtures further comprises sufficient amounts of said competitive templates for assessing said first nucleic acid in more than, or about, 10.sup.6 samples. 12. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein said series of serially-diluted standardized mixtures further comprises a number of other competitive template(s) for other nucleic acid(s) wherein said competitive template(s) arc at known concentrations relative to one another, thereby allowing assessment of said other nucleic acid(s). 13. The method as recited in claim 12 wherein at least one of said other nucleic acids serves as a second reference nucleic acid. 14. The method as recited in claim 13 wherein said second reference nucleic acid corresponds to at least one gene selected from CADP, ACTB, and .beta.-acitn. 15. The method as recited in claim 13 wherein said assessing further comprises: co-amplifying said second reference nucleic acid and said competitive template for said second reference nucleic acid to produce amplified product thereof; and obtaining a third relationship, said third relationship comparing said amplified product of said second reference nucleic acid to said amplified product of said competitive template for said second reference nucleic acid; and comparing said first and said third relationships. 16. The method as recited in claim 12 wherein said series of serially-diluted standardized mixtures further comprises sufficient amounts of said number of other competitive template(s) for assessing said other nucleic acid(s) in more than, or about, 10.sup.6 samples. 17. The method as recited in claim 12 wherein said first nucleic acid and said other nucleic acid(s) vary in amount over a range of more than, or about, 2 orders of magnitude. 18. The method as recited in claim 17 wherein said assessing detects less than, or about, a 50% difference over said range. 19. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said first nucleic acid comprises a sequence referenced in Table 1 or 2. 20. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said competitive template for said first or said second nucleic acid comprises a sequence referenced in Table 4. 21. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said competitive template for said first nucleic acid is at a series of concentrations relative to said competitive template for said second nucleic acid. 22. The method as recited in claim 21 wherein said series of concentrations provides 10-fold serial dilutions of said competitive template for said first nucleic acid relative to said competitive template for said second nucleic acid. 23. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein obtaining said first or said second relationship comprises a use of microfluidic device, capillary electrophoresis, an oligonucleotide array, mass spectrometry, or chromatography. 24. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein obtaining said first or said second relationship does not involve taking real-time measurements nor generation of a standard curve. 25. The method as recited in claim 24 wherein said standardized mixtures control for at least two sources of variation selected from cDNA loading, intra-nucleic acid amplification efficiency, inter-nucleic acid amplification efficiency, inter-specimen amplification efficiency, inter-sample amplification efficiency, and intra-sample amplification efficiency. 26. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein at least one of said standardized mixtures of said series can enumerate less than, or about, 1,000 molecules of said first nucleic acid in one of said samples. 27. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein at least one of said standardized mixtures of said series provides a coefficient of variation of less than, or about, 25% between 2 of said samples comprising said first nucleic acid. 28. The method as recited in claim 2 wherein said standardized mixtures reduces false negatives. 29. The method as recited in 2 wherein said method is computer implemented. 30. The method as recited in claim 29 wherein said computer implementation comprises instructing a robotic handler to select said first one of said serially -diluted standardized mixtures for combining. 31. The method as recited in claim 29 wherein said computer implementation comprises obtaining said first relationship. 32. The method as recited in claim 29 wherein said obtaining said first relationship involves determining an area under a curve. 33. The method as recited in claim 29 wherein said computer implementation comprises instructing said robotic handler to select said second one of said serially-diluted standardized mixtures based on said first relationship. 34. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said first nucleic acid comprises an RNA molecule. 35. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said first nucleic acid comprises a DNA molecule. 