A case packing system concurrently accumulates a plurality of different product ensembles and sequentially packs cases thereof, generally by way of (a) concurrently accumulating a plurality of different product ensembles utilizing a plurality of product conveyer lines, each of which is adapted to separately convey distinct products to one or more transfer points; (b) sequentially transferring different accumulated product ensembles from the conveyer lines to a case-packer, the case-packer including a packing section as well as multiple magazines for receiving different case-blanks; (c) controlling transfer of the product ensembles to the case-packer and selection of the appropriate case-blank. Preferably, substantially continuous operation of the case-packer at a production rate higher than an accumulation rate of any individual product conveyer is maintained. A preferred construction employs a 4-axis robotic arm to select KDF cases and shuttle conveyers to transfer product from the conveyers to the case-packer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic case-packing system for concurrently accumulating a plurality of different product ensembles and sequentially packing cases thereof, comprising: (a) a plurality of product conveyer lines, each of which is adapted to separately convey distinct products to segregated transfer points, the product conveyer lines being configured such that each product conveyer line is provided with a unique transfer point, the product conveyer lines being further constructed and adapted to accumulate the different product ensembles at their transfer points; (b) a case-packer with a packing section as well as multiple magazines for receiving different case-blanks and an in-feed conveyer with a feed point, the case-packer being characterized in that it is adapted to controllably select and provide different case-blanks to the packing section of the case-packer; (c) a shuttle conveyer movable to a plurality of locations, the shuttle conveyer being adapted to provide different product ensembles from the unique transfer point of each production conveyer line to the feed point of the in-feed conveyer of the case-packer; and (d) a controller for operating the shuttle conveyer and case-packer; whereby the case-packing system is operable to accumulate different products concurrently and sequentially supply a predetermined number of like product units to the case-packer such that case-packing system is capable of maintaining substantially continuous operation at a production rate higher than an accumulation rate of any individual production conveyer line of the system. 2. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 1, wherein the case-packer is provided with an accumulator between the in-feed conveyer and the packing section thereof. 3. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 1, wherein the case-packing system includes at least 3 product conveyers and the case-packer includes at least 3 case-blank magazines. 4. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 1, wherein the case-packing system includes at least 5 product conveyers and the case-packer includes at least 5 case-blank magazines. 5. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 1, wherein the case-blank magazines are arranged over an arc of less than 300.degree.. 6. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 5, wherein the case-blank magazines are arranged over an arc of 270.degree. or less. 7. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 1, wherein the case-packer includes a robotic arm pivotally mounted in a central location with respect to the case blank magazines. 8. A robotic case-packing system for concurrently accumulating a plurality of different product ensembles and sequentially packing cases thereof, comprising: (a) a plurality of product conveyer lines, each of which is adapted to separately convey distinct products to segregated transfer points, the product conveyer lines being configured such that each product conveyer line is provided with a unique transfer point, the product conveyer lines being further constructed and adapted to accumulate the different product ensembles at their transfer points; (b) a case-packer with a packing section as well as multiple magazines for receiving different case-blanks and at least 2 in-feed conveyers with distinct feed points, the case-packer being characterized in that it is adapted to controllably select and provide different case-blanks to the packing section of the case-packer; (c) at least 2 shuttle conveyers movable to a plurality of locations, the shuttle conveyers being adapted to provide different product ensembles from the unique transfer point of each production conveyer line to the feed points of the in-feed conveyers of the case-packer; and (d) a controller for operating the shuttle conveyer and case-packer; whereby the case-packing system is operable to accumulate different products concurrently and sequentially supply a predetermined number of like products to the case-packer such that case-packing system is capable of maintaining substantially continuous operation at a production rate higher than an accumulation rate of any individual production conveyer line of the system. 9. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 8, wherein the case-packer is provided with an accumulator between each in-feed conveyer and the packing section thereof. 10. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 8, wherein the case-packing system includes at least 3 product conveyers and the case-packer includes at least 3 case-blank magazines. 11. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 8, wherein the case-packing system includes at least 5 product conveyers and the case-packer includes at least 5 case-blank magazines. 12. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 8, wherein the case-blank magazines are arranged over an arc of less than 300.degree.. 13. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 12, wherein the case-blank magazines are arranged over an arc of 270.degree. or less. 14. The robotic case-packing system according to claim 8, wherein the case-packer includes a robotic arm pivotally mounted in a central location with respect to the case blank magazines. 