A new method and system for establishing, and optionally maintaining, a desired atmosphere for perishable or atmosphere-sensitive goods during their storage and/or transportation. In one embodiment, a conveyor is used to move a pallet with goods from station to station. A mechanical arm at a sheeting station lifts goods from a pallet while one or more sheets are placed between the goods and the pallet. A bottom plate with fingers having hollow tubes holds the pallet while the pallet is being wrapped and enclosed. A portable manifold may also be connected to the hollow tubes and a controller samples and adjusts atmosphere inside the pallet via the portable manifold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for automatically packaging goods and adjusting atmosphere inside the packaged goods, comprising: moving a pallet with goods along a conveyor; placing a bottom sheet between the pallet and the goods; placing a top sheet on top of the goods on the pallet; holding the bottom sheet placed at the bottom of the goods using a bottom plate having a plurality of bottom fingers, at least one of the plurality of bottom fingers being hollow tubes having injection hoses; holding the top sheet on top of the goods using a top plate having a plurality of top fingers, at least one of the plurality of top fingers being hollow tubes having injection hoses; wrapping the pallet to enclose the goods and the plurality of top fingers and the plurality of bottom fingers; vacuuming inside of the wrapped pallet via at least one of the injection hoses; injecting desired amount of gas or a combination of gases inside the wrapped pallet via at least one of the injection hoses; and sliding the plurality of bottom fingers and the plurality of top fingers out from the enclosed pallet. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the gas includes at least a first gas and a second gas; the first gas is used as a carrier for the second gas; and the vacuuming pulls the first gas and the second gas into the wrapped pallet. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first gas is nitrogen; and the second gas is ozone. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the wrapping of the pallet includes a material to prevent desired gases from escaping from the inside of the wrapped pallet. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the goods inside the wrapped pallet are each packaged in one of a permeable and semi-permeable film to allow the goods to be exposed to a treatment. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein items inside of the packaged goods are exposed to the treatment without being exposed to the gas or the combination of gases inside the wrapped pallet. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the goods treatment includes one of a sanitizing agent and a ripening control agent. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising continuously monitoring and adjusting the atmosphere inside the wrapped pallet using sensors and controllers. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the gas or the combination of gases inside the wrapped pallet using sensors and controllers. 10. A method for automatically packaging goods and adjusting atmosphere inside the packaged goods, comprising: placing a bottom sheet between a pallet and the goods; fitting a plurality of hose fittings on the pallet; enclosing the pallet; attaching a plurality of hoses to the plurality of hose fittings, the plurality of hoses connected to one or more manifolds that is connected to a controller and one or more gas tanks; and continuously monitoring and adjusting the atmosphere inside the enclosed pallet using the controller. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the enclosing the pallet includes enclosing the pallet with a bag. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the enclosing the pallet includes enclosing the pallet with double wrappings. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the controlling includes continuously monitoring and adjusting the atmosphere inside the enclosed pallet while at least one of transporting the enclosed pallet and storing the enclosed pallet. 14. The method of claim 10, further comprising pulling desired gas from the one or more gas tanks into the enclosed pallet by vacuuming through at least one of the plurality of hoses, wherein the desired gas includes at least a first gas and a second gas; the first gas is used as a carrier for the second gas; and the first gas siphons the second gas. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the first gas is nitrogen; and the second gas is ozone. 16. The method of claim 10, wherein the enclosing of the pallet includes wrapping the pallet with a material to prevent desired gases from escaping from the inside of the wrapped pallet. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the goods inside the wrapped pallet are each packaged in one of a permeable and semi-permeable film to allow the goods to be exposed to a treatment. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein items inside of the packaged goods are exposed to the treatment without being exposed to the atmosphere inside the enclosed pallet. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the goods treatment includes one of a sanitizing agent and a ripening control agent. 20. The method of claim 10, wherein the continuously monitoring and adjusting the atmosphere includes a plurality of sensors monitoring the atmosphere inside the packaged goods and the atmosphere inside the enclosed pallet. 21. A system for automatically packaging goods and adjusting atmosphere inside the packaged goods, comprising: a conveyor for moving a pallet with goods from station to station; a mechanical arm at a sheeting station for lifting goods from a pallet while one or more sheets are placed between the goods and the pallet; a bottom plate with fingers having hollow tubes for holding the pallet while the pallet is being enclosed; a controller for sampling and controlling atmosphere inside the pallet; a portable manifold connected to the controller, the manifold also connected to the pallet via the hollow tubes, wherein the atmosphere inside the pallet is continuously monitored and adjusted during at least one of transit and storage. 22. The system of claim 21, wherein the portable manifold includes a pressure relief valve. 23. The system of claim 21, wherein the controller includes a multi-zone controller enabled to control atmosphere in multiple zones. 24. The system of claim 21, further including: a network connection to enable communications to one or more computer systems. 25. The system of claim 21, wherein a desired gas is pulled into the pallet by vacuuming through at least one of the hollow tubes; the desired gas includes at least a first gas and a second gas; and the first gas is used as a carrier for the second gas. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the first gas is nitrogen; and the second gas is ozone. 27. The system of claim 21, wherein the controller includes a sensor for testing air pressure; and the monitoring includes detecting a negative pressure to ensure that there are no leaks in the pallet. 28. The system of claim 21, wherein the enclosing of the pallet includes wrapping the pallet with a material to prevent the atmosphere from escaping from the inside of the wrapped pallet. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the goods inside the wrapped pallet are each packaged in one of a permeable and semi-permeable film to allow the goods to be exposed to a treatment. 30. The system of claim 29, wherein items inside of the packaged goods are exposed to the treatment without being exposed to the atmosphere inside the enclosed pallet. 31. The system of claim 29, wherein the goods treatment includes one of a sanitizing agent and a ripening control agent. 32. The system of claim 21, wherein the continuously monitored and adjusted atmosphere inside the pallet includes using a plurality of sensors monitoring the atmosphere inside the packaged goods and the atmosphere inside the enclosed pallet. 33. A method for automatically packaging goods and adjusting atmosphere inside the packaged goods, comprising: moving a shipping unit with goods stacked on or placed in the shipping unit along a conveyor; placing a bottom sheet below the shipping unit; attaching overhanging edges of the bottom sheet to the side of the shipping unit; placing a top sheet on top of the goods on or in the shipping unit; wrapping the shipping unit to enclose the goods; coupling a first wand to the enclosed shipping unit of goods, thereby providing a first conduit through which desired gas may flow in and out of the enclosed shipping unit; coupling a second wand to the enclosed shipping unit of goods, thereby providing a second conduit through which desired gas may flow in and out of the enclosed shipping unit; vacuuming inside the enclosed shipping unit via the first conduit; injecting desired amount of gas inside the enclosed shipping unit via the second conduit; connecting a portable manifold to the enclosed shipping unit via the first wand and the second wand; connecting a controller for sampling and controlling the atmosphere inside the enclosed shipping unit to the portable manifold; and continuously monitoring and adjusting the atmosphere inside the shipping unit while at least one of transporting the shipping unit and storing the shipping unit. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the controller includes a sensor for testing air pressure; and the sampling performed by the controller includes detecting a negative pressure to ensure that there are no leaks in the shipping unit. 35. The method of claim 33, wherein the wrapping of the shipping unit includes a material to prevent the desired gas from escaping from the inside of the wrapped shipping unit. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the goods inside the wrapped shipping unit are each packaged in one of a permeable and semi-permeable film to allow the goods to be exposed to a treatment. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein items inside of the packaged goods are exposed to the treatment without being exposed to the desired gas inside the enclosed shipping unit. 38. The method of claim 36, wherein the goods treatment includes one of a sanitizing agent and a ripening control agent. 39. The method of claim 33, wherein the continuously monitoring and adjusting the atmosphere includes a plurality of sensors monitoring the atmosphere inside the packaged goods and the atmosphere inside the wrapped shipping unit. 40. The method of claim 33, wherein the shipping unit includes at least one of a bin and a pallet. 41. A method for automatically packaging goods and adjusting atmosphere inside the packaged goods, comprising: moving a shipping unit with goods stacked on or placed in the shipping unit; placing a bottom sheet below the shipping unit; attaching overhanging edges of the bottom sheet to the side of the shipping unit; placing a top sheet on top of the goods on or in the shipping unit; wrapping the shipping unit to enclose the goods; coupling a first wand to the enclosed shipping unit of goods, thereby providing a first conduit through which desired gas may flow in and out of the enclosed shipping unit; coupling a second wand to the enclosed shipping unit of goods, thereby providing a second conduit through which desired gas may flow in and out of the enclosed shipping unit; vacuuming inside the enclosed shipping unit via the first conduit; injecting desired amount of gas inside the enclosed shipping unit via the second conduit; connecting a portable manifold to the enclosed shipping unit via the first wand and the second wand; connecting a controller for sampling and controlling the atmosphere inside the enclosed shipping unit to the portable manifold; and continuously monitoring and adjusting the atmosphere inside the shipping unit while at least one of transporting the shipping unit and storing the shipping unit. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein the controller includes a sensor for testing air pressure; and the sampling performed by the controller includes detecting a negative pressure to ensure that there are no leaks in the shipping unit. 43. The method of claim 41, wherein the wrapping of the shipping unit includes a material to prevent the desired gas from escaping from the inside of the wrapped shipping unit. 44. The method of claim 43, wherein the goods inside the wrapped shipping unit are each packaged in one of a permeable and semi-permeable film to allow the goods to be exposed to a treatment. 45. The method of claim 44, wherein items inside of the packaged goods are exposed to the treatment without being exposed to the desired gas inside the wrapped shipping unit. 46. The method of claim 44, wherein the goods treatment includes one of a sanitizing agent and a ripening control agent. 47. The method of claim 41, wherein the continuously monitoring and adjusting the atmosphere includes a plurality of sensors monitoring the atmosphere inside the packaged goods and the atmosphere inside the wrapped shipping unit. 48. The method of claim 41, wherein the shipping unit includes at least one of a bin and a pallet. 49. A method for automatically packaging goods and adjusting atmosphere inside the packaged goods, comprising: moving a shipping unit with goods stacked on or placed in the shipping unit; enclosing the shipping unit; coupling a first wand to the enclosed shipping unit of goods, thereby providing a first conduit through which desired gas may flow in and out of the enclosed shipping unit; coupling a second wand to the enclosed shipping unit of goods, thereby providing a second conduit through which desired gas may flow in and out of the enclosed shipping unit; vacuuming inside the enclosed shipping unit via the first conduit; injecting desired amount of gas inside the enclosed shipping unit via the second conduit; connecting a portable manifold to the enclosed shipping unit via the first wand and the second wand; connecting a controller for sampling and controlling the atmosphere inside the enclosed shipping unit to the portable manifold; and continuously monitoring and adjusting the atmosphere inside the shipping unit while at least one of transporting the shipping unit and storing the shipping unit. 50. The method of claim 49, wherein the controller includes a sensor for testing air pressure; and the sampling performed by the controller includes detecting a negative pressure to ensure that there are no leaks in the shipping unit. 51. The method of claim 49, wherein the enclosing of the shipping unit includes wrapping the shipping unit with a wrapping material to prevent the desired gas from escaping from the inside of the enclosed shipping unit. 52. The method of claim 51, wherein the goods inside the enclosed shipping unit are each packaged in one of a permeable and semi-permeable film to allow the goods to be exposed to a treatment. 53. The method of claim 52, wherein items inside of the packaged goods are exposed to the treatment without being exposed to the desired gas inside the enclosed shipping unit. 54. The method of claim 52, wherein the goods treatment includes one of a sanitizing agent and a ripening control agent. 55. The method of claim 49, wherein the continuously monitoring and adjusting the atmosphere includes a plurality of sensors monitoring the atmosphere inside the packaged goods and the atmosphere inside the wrapped shipping unit. 56. A method for automatically packaging goods and adjusting atmosphere inside the packaged goods, comprising: one of stacking or placing goods wrapped in a permeable or semi-permeable film on a shipping unit, the film enclosing a first atmosphere; moving the shipping unit along a conveyor; placing a bottom sheet below the shipping unit; attaching overhanging edges of the bottom sheet to the side of the shipping unit; placing a top sheet on top of the goods on or in the shipping unit; wrapping the shipping unit to enclose the goods, the wrapping enclosing a second atmosphere; coupling a first wand to the enclosed shipping unit, thereby providing a first conduit through which desired gas may flow in and out of the enclosed shipping unit; coupling a second wand to the enclosed shipping unit, thereby providing a second conduit through which desired gas may flow in and out of the enclosed shipping unit; vacuuming inside the enclosed shipping unit via the first conduit; injecting a desired amount of gas inside the enclosed shipping unit via the second conduit; connecting a portable manifold to the enclosed shipping unit via the first wand and the second wand; connecting a controller for sampling and controlling the second atmosphere to the portable manifold; and continuously monitoring and adjusting at least the second atmosphere while at least one of transporting the shipping unit and storing the shipping unit. 57. The method of claim 56, wherein the desired gas includes at least a first gas and a second gas; the first gas is used as a carrier for the second gas; and the vacuuming pulls the first gas and the second gas into the enclosed shipping unit. 58. The method of claim 57, wherein the first gas is nitrogen; and the second gas is ozone. 59. The method of claim 56, wherein the first atmosphere includes one of a sanitizing agent and a ripening control agent. 60. The method of claim 56, wherein the first atmosphere is different from the second atmosphere. 61. The method of claim 56, wherein the continuously monitoring and adjusting the second atmosphere includes a plurality of sensors monitoring the atmosphere inside the wrapped shipping unit. 62. The method of claim 56, further comprising continuously monitoring and adjusting the first atmosphere including a plurality of sensors monitoring the atmosphere inside the packaged goods. 63. The method of claim 56, wherein the shipping unit includes at least one of a bin and a pallet. 