A medical imaging unit is provided. The medical imaging unit include a tomography device for 3D imaging and a PET system for positron emission tomography. The PET system includes a detector ring that has an angular region that is without detector elements.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A medical imaging unit comprising: a tomography device for 3D imaging; and a positron emission tomography (PET) system, wherein the PET system includes a non-closed detector ring system, which has a ring opening in an angular region, the ring opening being operable to receive a patient mounting element, and wherein the patient mounting element comprises a support arm being operable to pass into the ring opening. 2. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 1, wherein the angular region is located in the lower region of the detector ring system, and a patient support is retained on its underside by the patient mounting element. 3. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 2, wherein the patient support is operable to move into a central opening of the PET system. 4. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 1, wherein the angular region is located in the laterally lower region of the detector ring system, and a patient support is retained by the patient mounting element laterally next to or laterally below the angular region. 5. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 4, wherein the patient support is operable to move into a central opening of the PET system. 6. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 1, comprising: a patient mounting device that is operable to move a patient, the patient mounting device including the patient mounting element; wherein the patient mounting device is operable to move the patient into the PET system and into the tomography device, which is located on a first side of the PET system. 7. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 6, wherein the patient mounting element includes a patient support, which is operable to be used in a radiation therapy system. 8. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 7, wherein the patient support is operable to be used in a particle therapy system. 9. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 6, wherein the patient mounting device is a robotic patient positioning unit that includes a patient support, the support arm engages the patient support at an engagement point, which is located under, laterally under, or laterally beside the patient support. 10. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 9, wherein the robotic patient positioning unit includes a connector, which engages an engagement point on the patient support. 11. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 10, wherein a size and a shape of the ring opening is defined by the connector. 12. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 6, wherein the patient mounting device is located on a side of the PET system that is opposite to the side the tomography device is located. 13. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 1, comprising: a detector segment that is operable to cover at least a portion of the ring opening and be moved to open the ring opening. 14. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 13, wherein the detector segment is operable to be folded into and out of the ring opening. 15. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 1, wherein the tomography device includes an X-ray system, cone beam, or magnetic resonance computed tomography device. 16. The medical imaging unit as defined by claim 1, wherein the ring opening is sized and shaped to receive the patient mounting element. 17. A method for obtaining sets of image data for radiation therapy planning and/or for position verification in a radiation therapy session, the method comprising: moving a support arm, which connects to a patient support, through a ring opening of a detector ring of a PET system; and positioning the patient support in a tomography device. 