A system and method for reducing the number of input/output connections required to connect a microfluidic substrate to an external controller for controlling the substrate. In one example, a microfluidic processing device is fabricated on a substrate having a plurality of N independently controllable components, (e.g., a resistive heating elements) each having at least two terminals. The substrate includes a plurality of input/output contacts for connecting the substrate to an external controller, and a plurality of leads for connecting the contacts to the terminals of the components. The leads are arranged to allow the external controller to supply control signals to the terminals of the components via the contacts using substantially fewer contacts than the total number of component terminals. For example, in one embodiment, each lead connects a corresponding contact to a plurality of terminals to allow the controller to supply to signals to the terminals without requiring a separate contact for each terminal. However, to assure that the components can each be controlled independently of the others, the leads are also arranged so that each component's terminals are connected to a unique combination of contacts. Thus, the external controller can activate a selected component by supplying control signals to the combination of contacts uniquely associated with that component.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microfluidic processing device, comprising: a substrate comprising one or more components selected from the group consisting of: a thermally actuated pump, a thermally actuated valve, and a microfabricated reaction chamber, and further comprising a plurality of N independently controllable heating elements, each having at least two terminals, wherein each heating element is in thermal communication with one of the components; a plurality of input/output contacts for connecting said substrate to an external controller, and a plurality of leads for connecting said contacts to said terminals wherein each said lead connects a corresponding contact to a plurality of terminals and wherein the terminals of each said heating element are connected to a unique combination of contacts, whereby the number of contacts required to independently control said N heating elements is substantially less than the total number of terminals without requiring a separate lead for each said terminal, and wherein said controller can thereby control each said heating element independently of each other heating element. 2. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 1, wherein the number of contacts is related to the number of said heating elements by the formula, 2 N. 3. The microfluidic processing device according to claim 1 further comprising at least one independently controllable resistive sensing element having at least two terminals wherein the resistive sensing element is in thermal communication with one of the components. 4. The microfluidic processing device of claim 1 wherein at least one of said independently controllable heating elements comprises a plurality of sub-components that are all activated by said external controller using the unique combination of contacts associated with said at least one independently controllable heating element. 5. The microfluidic processing device of claim 1, wherein the device includes a plurality of current flow directional elements, each configured to allow current to flow in essentially only one direction through one of the heating elements. 6. The microfluidic device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more components is a thermally actuated valve and at least one of the N independently controllable heating elements is in thermal communication with the thermally actuated valve. 7. The microfluidic processing device of claim 1, wherein the one or more components includes a plurality of thermally actuated valves. 8. The microfluidic processing device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more components is a thermally actuated pump comprising a volume of fluid, whereby actuation of the heating element in thermal communication with the thermally actuated pump heats the fluid and actuates the thermally actuated pump. 9. The microfluidic processing device of claim 1, wherein the one or more components includes a plurality of thermally actuated pumps each comprising a volume of fluid and, wherein each heating element in thermal communication with the plurality of thermally actuated pumps is in thermal communication with the volume of fluid of a respective thermally actuated pump. 10. The microfluidic processing device of claim 5, wherein the current flow directional elements are further configured to substantially prevent current flow in a second, opposite direction through the heating elements. 11. The microfluidic processing device of claim 5, wherein the current flow directional elements are diodes. 12. The microfluidic processing device of claim 5, wherein the current flow directional elements are formed by microfabrication on the substrate. 13. The microfluidic processing device of claim 5, wherein one or more of the current flow directional elements are disposed in series with one or more of the heating elements. 14. The microfluidic processing device of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more components is a microfabricated reaction chamber. 15. The microfluidic processing device of claim 14, wherein a material is present in the at least one microfabricated reaction chamber, whereby actuation of the heating element in thermal communication with the microfabricated reaction chamber raises a temperature of the material. 16. The microfluidic processing device of claim 14, wherein the device is configured to perform a polymerase chain reaction in the microfabricated reaction chamber. 17. The microfluidic processing device of claim 3, wherein the at least one resistive sensing element is configured to sense a temperature of a material within the device. 18. The microfluidic processing device of claim 5, wherein an electrical pathway between each contact and at least one terminal of each heating element includes a current flow directional element. 19. The microfluidic processing device of claim 18, wherein each heating element includes a corresponding current flow directional element. 20. The microfluidic processing device of claim 1, wherein the substrate is a first substrate that defines the heating elements, and wherein the device further comprises a second substrate, the first substrate being separate from the second substrate and wherein the first substrate can mate with the second substrate to place at least one heating element in thermal communication with one of the one or more components. 