Briefly, in accordance with one or more embodiments, one or more thermal forming treatments may be predicted to achieve a desired shape and/or microstructure in a workpiece.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: measuring at least the surface of a workpiece; determining a strain field based at least in part on said measuring of at least the surface of said workpiece; predicting one or more thermal forming treatments for a workpiece to achieve a desired shape and/or micro structure in said workpiece based at least in part on said determining of the strain field; performing a thermal forming treatment on at least one workpiece prior to said measuring of at least the surface of said workpiece, wherein said determining of the strain field results in an empirical strain field; and determining an empirical transfer function relating one or more process inputs to bend angle based at least in part on said empirical strain field. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining of the strain field is based at least in part on comparing an initial shape of said workpiece to a desired shape of said workpiece. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a location of maximum compressive strain based at least in part on the strain field. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments comprises setting a starting location for a thermal scan trajectory based at least in part on the location of maximum compressive strain. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments comprises setting a starting direction for a thermal scan trajectory based at least in part on the location of maximum compressive strain. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments comprises using an equivalent measure, wherein the equivalent measure comprises one or more of the following: equivalent curvature, equivalent bend angle, equivalent local strain, or equivalent affected zone spacing, or combinations thereof. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments further comprises manipulating the equivalent measure during said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments further comprises calculating one or more or the following: thermal power, thermal spot size, thermal scan velocity, or scan path, or combinations thereof, based at least in part on a guessed equivalent affected zone spacing. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments comprises simultaneously calculating two or more or the following: affected zone spacing, thermal scan trajectory, or heating conditions, or combinations thereof. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining comprises determining an empirical transfer function relating one or more of the following: thermal power, thermal spot size, thermal scan velocity, scan path, workpiece thickness, or affected zone spacing, or combinations thereof. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments comprises calculating one or more or the following: thermal power, thermal spot size, thermal scan velocity, or scan path, or combinations thereof, based at least in part on said empirical transfer function. 12. A method, comprising: performing a thermal forming treatment on at least one workpiece; measuring at least a surface of a workpiece; determining an empirical strain field based at least in part on said measuring of at least the surface of said workpiece; determining an empirical transfer function relating one or more process inputs to bend angle based at least in part on said empirical strain field; predicting one or more thermal forming treatments for the workpiece to achieve a desired shape and/or microstructure in said workpiece, wherein said predicting is based at least in part on said empirical transfer function; and manipulating an equivalent affected zone spacing during said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments to calculate one or more or the following: thermal power, thermal spot size, thermal scan velocity, or scan path, or combinations thereof. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining a location of maximum compressive strain based at least in part on the strain field. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments comprises setting a starting location for a thermal scan trajectory based at least in part on the location of maximum compressive strain. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments comprises setting a starting direction for a thermal scan trajectory based at least in part on the location of maximum compressive strain. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments comprises using an equivalent measure, wherein the equivalent measure comprises one or more of the following: equivalent curvature, equivalent bend angle, or equivalent local strain, or combinations thereof. 17. The method of claim 12, wherein said predicting of one or more thermal forming treatments comprises simultaneously calculating two or more or the following: affected zone spacing, thermal scan trajectory, or heating conditions, or combinations thereof. 