A system and method for distributing title data, such as songs, videos or computer games. The title data is provided from a central location to a customer who may purchase or rent a copy of the title data. The title data is made available on a computer readable media, which may be physical media, such as a CD or DVD, or virtual media, such as a computer network. Before distribution, the title data is watermarked with information to identify the customer to whom the title data was distributed. The watermark may be created using identifying information to modulate the title data using a randomly selected modulation scheme at multiple randomly selected locations. The system stores an indication of the locations and frequency modulation scheme, allowing the identifying information to be recovered from the watermarked copy of the title data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of watermarking title data with identification data, the method comprising the steps of: identifying a plurality of possible placement locations in the title data based on characteristics of the title data; selecting a plurality of placement locations from the plurality of possible placement locations; randomly selecting a plurality of number to frequency modulation relationships; and frequency modulating at least a portion of the title data at each of the plurality of selected placement locations with the identification data using one of the selected plurality of number to frequency modulation relationships. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: generating a watermarking key that is a combination of the customer identification data and an identifier of the randomly selected plurality of number to frequency modulation relationships; and storing the watermarking key in a secure database. 3. The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the step of generating the watermarking key includes generating a unique watermark key for each watermarked title data. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the title data is audio title data. 5. The method as claimed in claim 4, further comprising the step of decoding at least a portion of the audio title data. 6. The method as claimed in claim 5, further comprising the step of combining the frequency modulated audio title data with corresponding video title data to provide watermarked title data. 7. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the step of identifying a plurality of possible placement locations includes scanning the audio title data to determine a plurality of locations where a frequency deviation between channels of the audio title data is less than a predetermined frequency deviation or the frequency modulation of the audio title data is not discernible to a human ear. 8. The method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the step of scanning includes selecting a channel of the audio title data as a reference channel, and selecting another channel of the audio title data to be frequency modulated as a watermarked channel. 9. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the reference channel and the watermarked channel are randomly changed. 10. The method as claimed in claim 7, further comprising the step of receiving an decryption key and decrypting encrypted title data to provide the title data. 11. The method as claimed in claim 4, further comprising the step of encoding the audio title data after the step of frequency modulating. 12. The method as claimed in claim 11, further comprising the step of combining the frequency modulated audio title data with a remainder of the audio title data to provide watermarked audio title data. 13. The method as claimed in claim 4, further comprising the step of receiving an decryption key and decrypting encrypted title data to provide the title data. 14. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the frequency modulated title data is provided as watermarked title data; and the method further comprises the step of storing reference title data for use when decoding the watermarked title data. 15. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the frequency modulated title data is provided as watermarked title data; and the method further comprises the step of burning a selected medium with the watermarked title data. 16. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the frequency modulated title data is provided as watermarked title data; and the method further comprises transmitting the watermarked title data to a customer. 17. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising the step of receiving an decryption key and decrypting encrypted title data to provide the title data. 18. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising the step of decoding encoded title data to provide the title data. 19. The method of watermarking title data of claim 1, wherein randomly selecting a plurality of number to frequency modulation relationships comprises selecting an entry of a set of encoding relationships, the entry including random information specifying a selection of placement locations from the plurality of placement locations. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein each of the encoding relationships comprises the plurality of number to frequency modulation relationships. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein selecting a plurality of placement locations comprises selecting a plurality of placement locations using information stored in the selected entry of the set of encoding relationships. 22. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of identifying a plurality of possible placement locations includes scanning the title data to identify locations based on a frequency deviation. 23. The method as claimed in claim 22, wherein selecting a plurality of placement locations comprises randomly selecting a subset of the plurality of possible placement locations. 24. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein selecting a plurality of placement locations comprises randomly selecting a subset of the plurality of possible placement locations. 25. A method of watermarking title data with identification data, the method comprising: identifying a plurality of locations in the title data based on properties of the title data; randomly selecting a subset of placement locations from the plurality of identified locations; for each placement location in the subset: (i) randomly selecting one of a plurality of number to frequency modulation relationships; (ii) modulating the title data at the placement location with the identification data based on the selected number to frequency modulation relationship; and storing an indication of the randomly selected subset of placement locations and randomly selected number to frequency modulation relationships. 26. The method as claimed in claim 25, further comprising the step of receiving an decryption key and decrypting encrypted title data to provide the title data. 