A cabinet for a printing system for producing wallpaper printed on a media web, the cabinet comprising: a support adapted to hold at least one media cartridge, containing the media web, and to hold a printhead; at least one guide to direct the media web past the printhead; a further support adapted to hold at least one ink reservoir in fluid communication with the printhead; at least one module adapted to hold at least one processor; a user interface to forward user instructions to the at least one processor; a drying compartment to dry printed wallpaper; and a receiving stage to receive printed wallpaper onto a roller.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cabinet for a printing system for printing a consumer selected print on a media web, the cabinet comprising: a support adapted to hold at least one media cartridge, containing the media web, and to hold a stationary printhead; at least one guide to direct the media web past the stationary printhead; a further support adapted to hold at least one ink reservoir in fluid communication with the printhead; at least one module adapted to hold at least one processor; a user interface to forward user instructions to the at least one processor; a drying compartment to dry the printed media web; and a receiving stage to receive the printed media web onto a driven roller, wherein the media web is fed along a straight media path from the media cartridge past the stationary printhead and through the drying compartment by the driven roller, the drying compartment having a door adjacent the media path, the printed media web extending from the media path as a catenary loop into a cavity of the drying compartment when the door is open. 2. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the support is a carousel. 3. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one guide is a pre-heater. 4. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one guide is substantially planar. 5. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the further support holds the at least one ink reservoir at a height greater than the height of the printhead. 6. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the further support includes at least one ink supply tube harness. 7. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein each at least one ink reservoir has an ink level monitor. 8. The cabinet as claimed in claim 7, wherein the ink level monitor is in communication with the at least one processor. 9. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the user interface is a touch screen. 10. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the cabinet includes a display screen for maintenance work. 11. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the drying compartment is positioned intermediate the printhead and the receiving stage. 12. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the drying compartment includes an automatically operated door through which the printed media web is received by the drying compartment. 13. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the receiving stage is an exterior well. 14. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the receiving stage includes a roller driver. 15. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the receiving stage is adapted to support a container for the printed media web. 16. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the selected print is a wallpaper pattern such that the printing system produces wallpaper. 17. The cabinet as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printed media web produced by the printing system comprises: a media web; and, a consumer selected print printed on the media web by the wallpaper printing system; whereby, the selected print is chosen by a consumer using an input device of the printing system, and the wallpaper width is selected by a consumer using the input device; and, the printing system further comprises: at least one media cartridge containing a media web; a printhead extending at least the width of the media web; at least one processor to control printing by the printhead of the selected print on the media web; the input device in communication with at least one processor; and, a slitter device to cut the media web to the selected width. 