A system and associated method for delivering to an internal body site a selected one of a plurality of instruments including fluid-dispensing instruments. An instrument storage chamber is providing having passages for separately accommodating the plurality of instruments. An outlet guide tube couples from the instrument storage chamber and receives a selected one of these instruments for delivery to an internal operative site. An indexing mechanism is provided associated with the chamber for causing relative displacement between the instruments and the outlet guide tube. An instrument driver displaces the registered instrument from the chamber into the outlet guide tube for delivery to the internal operative site.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An interchangeable instrument apparatus, comprising: a plurality of separate instrument members each capable of assisting in a different phase of a medical procedure to be performed at an operative site within the anatomy; an instrument storage chamber for releasably receiving said plurality of instrument members, accommodated in separate storage locations within said instrument storage chamber; an instrument driver constructed and arranged for cooperative positioning relative to said instrument storage chamber, for selective alignment with one of said instrument members at a time, and for displacing said aligned instrument member from-said instrument storage chamber toward the operative site; at least one of said instrument driver and instrument storage chamber being positionally controllable so as to provide relative displacement therebetween to selectively align said instrument driver with different ones of said instrument members; at least one of said plurality of separate instrument members including a fluid dispensing member. 2. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said instrument storage chamber comprises a rotating chamber having a plurality of passages therein. 3. A system as set forth in claim 2 wherein said instrument member has a rest storage position when disposed in said instrument storage chamber, and a working position when coupled to the operative site, and further including an outlet guide tube having a distal end of said instrument extending from a distal end of said outlet guide tube when said instrument is in its working position. 4. A system as set forth in claim 3 including an indexing device for causing relative displacement between said instrument members and said outlet guide tube for rotating said instrument storage chamber so that different ones of said instrument members may be aligned with said outlet guide tube. 5. A system as set forth in claim 4 further comprising a carriage for supporting said instrument driver for linear translation of said instrument driver. 6. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said instrument driver has cabling and said instrument member has cabling. 7. A system as set forth in claim 6 further including a coupling interface for selectively connecting the cabling of said instrument driver with the cabling of said instrument member. 8. A system as set forth in claim 7 wherein said coupling interface comprises corresponding hooks associated with said instrument driver and said instrument member, and engagable when said driver selects a particular instrument member; further including a base piece for supporting said carriage for rotation about a central axis; each passage in said instrument storage chamber having an enlarged section to facilitate disengagement of said engagable hook; facing ends of said instrument driver and instrument member having interlocking surfaces. 9. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said fluid dispensing member comprises a syringe member. 10. A system as set forth in claim 9 further comprising an actuating member supported by said instrument driver for selectively operating said syringe member to eject fluid at the operative site. 11. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said fluid dispensing member comprises a conduit member for coupling a fluid thereby from an external fluid source. 12. A system as set forth in claim 1 further comprising a remote drive unit configured for controlling said instrument member. 13. A system as set forth in claim 12 further comprising a user interface and an electrical controller, wherein said user interface is configured for remotely operating said instrument member by way of said electrical controller. 14. A system as set forth in claim 13 further comprising an indexing mechanism for controlling the position of said instrument storage chamber. 15. A system as set forth in claim 14 wherein said user interface comprises an actuator member for remotely controlling said indexing mechanism. 16. A system as set forth in claim 15 wherein said actuation member includes at least one of a switch, touch screen, pointer, or voice activation device. 17. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said instrument driver is an instrument shaft. 18. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said instrument driver is constructed and arranged for cooperative positioning relative to said instrument storage chamber, for selective coaxial alignment with one of said instrument members at a time. 19. A method of delivering to an internal operative site a selected one of a plurality of instruments, said method comprising the steps of: storing a plurality of separate instruments in a storage chamber with each instrument capable of assisting in a different phase of a medical procedure to be performed at the operative site, and with at least one of said instrument members including a fluid dispensing member; providing an instrument driver constructed and arranged for; positionally controlling at least one of said instrument driver and instrument storage chamber so as to provide relative displacement therebetween and so as to selectively align said instrument driver with said instrument members one at a time, and to displace said one aligned instrument member from said instrument storage chamber. 20. A method as set forth in claim 19 further comprising the step of guiding said displaced instrument by means of a guide tube. 21. A method as set forth in claim 19 wherein the step of positionally controlling to provide relative displacement includes causing relative rotation. 22. A method as set forth in claim 19 wherein the step of positionally controlling to provide relative displacement includes causing linear movement. 23. A method as set forth in claim 19 wherein said instrument driver is an instrument shaft. 24. A method as set forth in claim 19 wherein said instrument driver is coaxially aligned with said instrument members one at a time. 25. An interchangeable instrument system, comprising: a storage retainer that supports a plurality of separately arranged instruments, and further includes inlet and outlet ports, said outlet port arranged in alignment with a target or operative site where said instrument is to be delivered for performing a medical procedure; a work implement supported at said distal end of each instrument; at least one of said work implements comprising a fluid releasing device; an instrument transporter in alignment with said inlet port, and adapted to engage a registered instrument disposed in said storage retainer, so as to deliver said selected instrument, via said outlet port to the target or operative site; said instrument transporter, in addition to engagement with said instrument, also operatively coupling with and enabling operation of said work implement of said instrument; said storage retainer being selectively operable, upon command, to permit different instruments to align between said inlet and outlet ports. 26. A system as set forth in claim 25 wherein said work implement is remotely operated from a user interface by way of an electrical controller. 27. A system as set forth in claim 26 wherein said retainer comprises an instrument storage chamber and further including an indexing mechanism for controlling the position of said instrument storage chamber, further including an actuation member at said user interface for remotely controlling said indexing mechanism, said actuation member including at least one of a switch, touch screen, pointer, or voice activation device. 28. A system as set forth in claim 25 wherein said fluid releasing device contains a medicinal liquid and is further comprised of a syringe type member, said instrument transporter supporting an actuating member for selectively operating said syringe type member to eject liquid at the target or operative site. 29. A system as set forth in claim 25 wherein said fluid releasing device couples a medicinal liquid and is further comprised of a conduit type member for coupling the liquid thereby and from an external liquid source. 30. A system as set forth in claim 25 wherein said instrument transporter is an instrument shaft. 31. An interchangeable instrument system, comprising: an instrument retainer having multiple storage location for receiving a plurality of instruments disposed separately in said respective storage locations; at least one of said plurality of instruments including a fluid dispensing member; an instrument driver constructed and arranged for cooperative positioning relative to said instrument retainer, for selective alignment with one of said instruments at a time, and for displacing said aligned instrument from said instrument retainer toward the operative site; an indexing mechanism controlling the position of said instrument retainer so as to selectively align different ones of said instruments with said instrument driver; and an actuation member disposed at a user interface for controlling said indexing mechanism. 32. A system as set forth in claim 31 wherein said indexing mechanism is remotely operated from a user interface by way of an electrical controller. 33. A system as set forth in claim 31 wherein said actuation member includes at least one of a switch, touch screen, pointer, or voice activation device. 34. A system as set forth in claim 31 wherein said user interface is a remote user interface. 35. A system as set forth in claim 31 wherein said instrument driver is an instrument shaft. 36. A system as set forth in claim 31 wherein said instrument driver is constructed and arranged for cooperative positioning relative to said instrument storage chamber, for selective coaxial alignment with one of said instrument members at a time. 37. An interchangeable instrument system, comprising: a plurality of medical instruments; an instrument retainer for releasably holding said plurality of instruments; at least one of said instruments retained in said instrument retainer including a fluid dispensing instrument; an instrument transporter associated with said instrument retainer, for selective alignment with one of said instruments at a time, and for displacing said aligned instrument from said instrument from said instrument retainer toward an operative site in a subject. 38. An interchangeable instrument system as set forth in claim 37 including at least one of said instrument retainer and instrument transporter being positionally controllable so as to provide relative displacement therebetween to selectively align said instrument transporter with another of said instruments. 39. An interchangeable instrument system as set forth in claim 37 wherein said instrument retainer comprises a rotating chamber having a plurality of passages therein. 40. An interchangeable instrument system as set forth in claim 37 wherein said instrument retainer comprises a linear chamber for receiving said instruments. 41. An interchangeable instrument system as set forth in claim 40 wherein said transporter is positioned in parallel to said linear chamber, and a selected instrument is moved transversely out of said chamber for alignment with said instrument transporter. 42. An interchangeable instrument system as set forth in claim 37 including an indexing mechanism controlling the position of said instrument retainer so as to selectively align different instruments with said instrument transporter, and an actuation member disposed at a remote user interface for controlling said indexing mechanism. 43. An interchangeable instrument system as set forth in claim 37 wherein said fluid dispensing instrument comprises one of a syringe type member, and a conduit type member for coupling the liquid thereby and from an external fluid source. 44. A system as set forth in claim 37 wherein said instrument transporter is an instrument shaft. 45. A system as set forth in claim 37 wherein said instrument transporter is associated with said instrument retainer, for selective coaxial alignment with one of said instruments at a time. 