A vacuum pick-up device 20 includes a device body 22 having a pick-up tip opening 78 to which vacuum pressure is supplied. The vacuum pick-up device 20 further includes a mechanical release assisting device 36 that assists in the release of a grasped object contemporaneously with or slightly subsequent to the cessation of vacuum pressure. A manifold 38 may be included to efficiently and effectively supply vacuum pressure to the device body 22 from a vacuum pressure source.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A method for grasping and releasing an object with a pick-up device, comprising. providing a pick-up device, the pick-up device including a vacuum pressure supply port, a first tip opening positioned at the distal end of the pick-up device, and a movable first release assisting device having a first position wherein the entire release assisting device within the pick-up device and a second position wherein a portion of the first release assisting device is extended through the first tip opening, the vacuum pressure supply port being in fluid communication with the first tip opening when the first release assisting device is in the first position; moving the pick-up device to a first location for grasping an object; supplying vacuum pressure to the first tip opening; grasping the object at the first tip opening with the supplied vacuum pressure; transferring the object to a second location; and releasing the object at the second location by moving the first release assisting device from the first position to the second position. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein releasing the object at the second location further includes reducing the vacuum pressure supplied to the first tip opening. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein releasing the object at the second location further includes contacting the object with the first release assisting device. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the object is a plant embryo. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the pick-up device further includes a second tip opening adjacent the first tip opening and a movable second release assisting device having a first position wherein the entire second release assisting device is within the pick-up device and a second position wherein a portion of the second release assisting device is extended through the second tip opening, and wherein the vacuum pressure supply port is in fluid communication with the second tip opening when the second release assisting device is in the first position. 6. The method of claim 5, further including supplying vacuum pressure to the second tip opening; grasping the object at the second tip opening with the supplied vacuum pressure; and wherein releasing the object at the second location further includes moving the second release assisting device from the first position to the second position simultaneously with the movement of the first release assisting device. 