Apparatus in accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention includes a data storage cartridge and/or a receiver configured to receive the cartridge in facilitation of data transfer to and/or from the cartridge. The cartridge and the receiver each include respective connector portions configured to connect when the cartridge is inserted into the receiver. The cartridge and/or the receiver also include guide features configured to facilitate alignment of the connector portions for connection as the cartridge is inserted into the receiver.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage cartridge comprising: a memory device; a cartridge connector portion linked with the memory device for signal transmission therebetween; and, a cartridge shell that: houses the memory device; supports the cartridge connector portion; and, supports an elongated cartridge guide region that comprises: a front cartridge guide feature that is substantially proximate the cartridge connector portion; a rear cartridge guide feature that is distal from the cartridge connector portion; and a run region that extends between the front and rear cartridge guide features and is wider than both the front and rear cartridge guide features. 2. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, wherein the front and rear cartridge guide features are bottlenecks with a narrowed region. 3. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, and wherein the run region has a substantially constant width, and the front and rear cartridge guide features are located at opposite ends of the run region. 4. The data storage cartridge of claim 3, and wherein the run region is an open slot that is defined by a substantially flat bottom and a pair of substantially parallel, spaced-apart, juxtaposed walls extending substantially perpendicularly from the bottom. 5. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, and wherein: the cartridge guide region is substantially a female guide region defined by the cartridge shell; the front cartridge guide feature is substantially a front bottleneck region defined by the female guide region; and, the rear cartridge guide feature is substantially a rear bottleneck region defined by the female guide region. 6. The data storage cartridge of claim 5, and wherein the front bottleneck region is wider than the rear bottleneck region. 7. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, and wherein: the cartridge shell supports a pair of elongated cartridge guide regions in substantially parallel, offset, juxtaposed relation to one another; and, each cartridge guide region comprises: a front cartridge guide feature that is substantially proximate the cartridge connector portion; and, a rear cartridge guide feature that is distal from the cartridge connector portion. 8. The data storage cartridge of claim 7, and further wherein: each cartridge guide region is substantially a female guide region; each front cartridge guide feature is substantially a front bottleneck region; and, each rear cartridge guide feature is substantially a rear bottleneck region. 9. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, and wherein: the cartridge is configured to be supportably received into a receiver that includes a chassis, a guide member extending from the chassis, and a receiver connector portion supported by the chassis; the receiver connector portion is configured to matingly connect with the cartridge connector portion for signal transmission therebetween when the cartridge is received into the receiver; and, the guide member is configured to matingly engage the cartridge guide region as the cartridge is received into the receiver. 10. The data storage cartridge of claim 9, and wherein: the guide member defines a front receiver guide feature and a rear receiver guide feature; the front receiver guide feature is configured to engage the rear cartridge guide feature as the cartridge is received into the receiver; and, the rear receiver guide feature is configured to engage the front cartridge guide feature as the cartridge is received into the receiver. 11. The data storage cartridge of claim 10, and wherein: the front receiver guide feature is configured to engage the rear cartridge guide feature with a substantially continuous snug fit as the cartridge is received into the receiver; and, the rear receiver guide feature is configured to engage the front cartridge guide feature with a substantially momentary snug fit as the cartridge is received into the receiver. 12. The data storage cartridge of claim 11, and wherein the rear receiver guide feature and the front cartridge guide feature are configured such that the momentary snug fit ends prior to engagement of the cartridge connector portion and the receiver connector portion. 13. The data storage cartridge of claim 12, and wherein: the cartridge further comprises a cartridge reference guide feature; and, the receiver further includes a receiver reference guide feature that is configured to matingly engage the cartridge reference feature after the end of the snug fit between the front cartridge guide feature and the rear receiver guide feature and before the engagement of the cartridge connector portion and the receiver connector portion. 14. The data storage cartridge of claim 13, the cartridge further comprising a door supported by the cartridge shell and configured to: protectively cover the cartridge connector portion when the cartridge is not received into the receiver; and, uncover the cartridge connector portion in response to engagement of the receiver reference guide feature with the cartridge reference guide feature. 