A method and an apparatus for separating elongated semiconductor strips from a wafer of semiconductor material are disclosed. Vacuum is applied to the face of each semiconductor strip forming an edge of the wafer or being adjacent to the edge. The wafer and the source of the vacuum are displaced to separate each elongated semiconductor strip from the wafer. Further, a method and an apparatus for assembling elongated semiconductor strips separated from a wafer of semiconductor material into an array of strips are disclosed. Still further, methods, apparatuses, and systems for assembling an array of elongated semiconductor strips on a substrate are also disclosed.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of separating elongated semiconductor strips from a wafer of semiconductor material, said method comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of elongated semiconductor strips formed in a wafer in a substantially parallel manner with respect to each other, said wafer having a substantially planar surface and a thickness dimension at a right angle to the substantially planar surface and a frame portion at opposite ends of said semiconductor strips connecting said strips to said wafer, said semiconductor strips each having a width at least substantially equal to the wafer thickness and a thickness dimension of said strip less than said width, a face of at least one of elongated semiconductor strips lengthwise forming an edge of said wafer or being nearest adjacent said edge; applying vacuum to said elongated semiconductor strip forming said edge or being adjacent to said edge; and displacing said wafer and a source of said vacuum relative to each other a predetermined distance to separate said elongated semiconductor strip having vacuum applied to said elongated semiconductor strip from said wafer. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: at least reducing said vacuum applied to said separated, elongated semiconductor strip; and displacing said separated, elongated semiconductor strip and said source of said vacuum relative to each other. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of at least reducing said vacuum comprises terminating said vacuum. 4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: moving said wafer so that said elongated semiconductor strip is in close proximity to said source of said vacuum. 5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: moving said source of said vacuum relative to said wafer so that said source of said vacuum is in close proximity to said elongated semiconductor strip. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein said steps are repeatedly performed to separate two or more of said plurality of said elongated semiconductor strips from said wafer. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein said source of said vacuum has a body with at least one cavity formed therein for providing said applied vacuum, said cavity adjacent said elongated semiconductor strip being substantially the same in size as or smaller than a dimension of a face of said elongated semiconductor strip. 8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of: forming weak points in portions of said wafer adjacent opposite ends of said elongated semiconductor strips to facilitate separation of said elongated semiconductor strip from said wafer. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein said wafer is single crystal silicon or multicrystalline silicon. 