An end effector for a robot arm couples to the arm at a mounting fixture. The end effector includes a first paddle head assembly, the assembly including a paddle head and a solenoid controlling extension and retraction of the paddle head away from and toward the mounting fixture. In addition, the effector includes a vacuum region positioned in the first paddle head assembly adapted to receive a disk and coupled to an extendable vacuum arm. A method for operating a dual paddle end effector includes the steps of: connecting at least a first paddle head assembly including a paddle head to a robotic arm; positioning the arm adjacent to a disk in a carrier; and providing a vacuum suction to a vacuum region in the paddle head assembly sufficient to lift the disk into the vacuum region in the paddle head assembly.
Claims We claim: 1. An end effector for a robot arm, the end effector coupled to the arm at a mounting fixture, comprising: a first paddle head assembly, the assembly including a paddle head and a solenoid controlling extension and retraction of the paddle head away from and toward the mounting fixture, the head including a first side and a second side defining a semi-circular cross section at a first end of each of said first and second sides and including a slot between the first and second sides having a width sufficient to receive a disk; and a vacuum region in the slot positioned in the first paddle head assembly adapted to receive a disk and coupled to a vacuum supply source, wherein a vacuum suction provided in said slot is sufficient to retrieve a disk into said slot, the head assembly being coupled to an extendable vacuum arm. 2. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the assembly includes a vacuum arm coupled to a clean room vacuum supply source. 3. The end effector of claim 1 further including: a second paddle head assembly mounted adjacent to the first paddle head assembly, the assembly including a paddle head and an extending solenoid controlling extension and retraction of the paddle head away from and toward the mounting fixture; and a second vacuum region positioned in the second paddle head assembly and coupled to an extendable vacuum arm. 4. The end effector of claim 3 wherein the second paddle head assembly is positioned adjacent to said first paddle head assembly in a plane extending away from said mounting point. 5. The end effector of claim 4 wherein the second paddle is positioned below and in front of said first paddle head assembly when said first and second paddle head assemblies are in a retracted position. 6. The end effector of claim 1 wherein the end effector is coupled to said mounting fixture about a first rotational axis provided by the robot arm, and the end effector includes a rotational structure providing a second rotational axis below the mounting fixture, the second rotational axis being perpendicular to the first rotational axis. 7. The end effector of claim 6 wherein said extension and retraction occurs in a plane defined by the first or the second rotational axis. 8. A dual paddle end effector for a robot arm, the end effector coupled to an arm mounting fixture, comprising: a first paddle head assembly, the assembly including a first paddle head and an extension control arm, the first paddle head including a first side and a second side defining a semi-circular cross section at a first end of each of said first and second sides and including a slot between the first and second sides having a width sufficient to receive a disk; a vacuum region positioned in the slot of the first paddle head assembly and coupled to a first extendable vacuum arm, the region coupled to a vacuum supply source, wherein a vacuum suction provided in said slot of the first paddle is sufficient to retrieve a disk into said slot without a portion of the end effector touching the disk; a second paddle head assembly mounted adjacent to the first paddle head assembly, the second paddle assembly including a second paddle head and an extension control arm the second paddle head including a first side and a second side defining a semi-circular cross section at a first end of each of said first and second sides and including a slot between the first and second sides having a width sufficient to receive a disk; and a vacuum slot positioned in the second paddle head assembly and coupled to a second extendable vacuum arm and the vacuum supply source, the vacuum slot coupled to a vacuum supply source, wherein a vacuum suction provided in said vacuum slot of the second paddle is sufficient to retrieve a disk into said slot without a portion of the end effector touching the disk. 9. The end effector of claim 8 wherein each slot has a width sufficient to receive a disk. 10. The end effector of claim 9 wherein the vacuum supply source is retrieved from to a clean room. 11. The end effector of claim 9 wherein the second paddle head assembly is positioned adjacent to said first paddle head assembly in a plane extending away from said mounting fixture. 12. The end effector of claim 8 wherein the end effector is coupled to coupled to a first rotational axis provided by the robot arm, and the end effector includes a second rotational axis below the mounting point, the second rotational axis being perpendicular to the first rotational axis. 13. The end effector of claim 12 wherein said extension and retraction occurs in a plane defined by the first or the second rotational axis. 