An inkjet printhead assembly is provided having a casing removably mounting at least one printhead module which has an elongate support member longitudinally supporting a plurality of printhead integrated circuits and a capping member capping one longitudinal end of the elongate support member. The support member has a plurality of longitudinally extending channels for carrying and delivering ink to inkjet nozzles of the printhead integrated circuits. The longitudinal ends of the elongate support member are configured differently and complementarily to one another. The capping member is configured to cap either of the longitudinal ends so as to seal the channels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An inkjet printhead assembly comprising: a casing removably mounting at least one printhead module, the printhead module comprising an elongate support member longitudinally supporting a plurality of printhead integrated circuits, the support member having a plurality of longitudinally extending channels for carrying and delivering ink to inkjet nozzles of the printhead integrated circuits; and a capping member capping one longitudinal end of the elongate support member so as to seal the channels at that end, wherein longitudinal ends of the elongate support member are configured differently and complementarily to one another and the capping member is configured to selectively cap either of said longitudinal ends. 2. An inkjet printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the printhead integrated circuits, the support member, ink distribution members each mounting one of the printhead integrated circuits to the support member, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits; and the support member has a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the ink from the channels to associated nozzles in the printhead integrated circuits via the ink distribution members. 3. An inkjet assembly according to claim 1, wherein the support member has complementary female and male end portions, and the capping member is arranged to cap each of the female and male end portions. 4. An inkjet printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein a sealing adhesive is provided at an interface of the capping and support members. 5. An inkjet printhead assembly according to claim 4, wherein the sealing adhesive is an epoxy. 