An obstacle-detectable mobile robotic device includes a frame body capable of traveling on a surface, a control circuit mounted to the frame body for controlling the traveling manner and direction of the frame body, and a detection system mounted to the frame body and electrically connected with the control circuit. The detection system has an optical emitter, an optical receiver, and a reflector. The optical emitter emits the light onto the surface, and the light is reflected onto the reflector and then to the optical receiver to be received by the optical receiver. A receiving area generated by the optical receiver on the reflector never overlaps the surface. Accordingly, the obstacle-detectable mobile robotic device can effectively avoid ambient light pollution to have preferable detection potency.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An obstacle-detectable mobile device, comprising: a frame body capable of traveling on a surface; a control circuit mounted to said frame body for controlling traveling manner and direction of said frame body and configured to avoid obstacles obstructing the mobile device; and a detection system mounted to said frame body and electrically connected with said control system, said detection system having an optical emitter, an optical receiver, and a reflector, said optical emitter emitting the light toward the surface at a given angle to define a projection area on the surface, said reflector facing said projection area, the light emitted to the projection area being reflected to said reflector to define a reflection area on said reflector, the reflection area being variably located on said reflector subject to a height that the surface is positioned, said optical receiver facing said reflector to define a receiving area on said reflector, the receiving area never overlapping the surface; wherein the reflection area is overlapped with said receiving area when said optical emitter is spaced from the surface at a given distance; wherein the reflection area is not overlapped with the receiving area when said optical emitter is farther than the given distance from the surface; wherein said optical receiver being enabled to receive the light from said optical emitter is dependent on whether or not the receiving area is overlapped with the reflection area; and wherein the detection system of the mobile device is configured to reject ambient light pollution and avoid misdetection of obstacles. 2. The obstacle-detectable mobile robotic device as defined in claim 1, wherein said detection system comprises a housing and at least one spacer, said housing being mounted to said frame body and having an opening facing the surface, said spacer partitioning an inner space of said housing into two compartments; said optical emitter and receiver are located in said two compartments respectively; said reflector is located in said housing. 3. The obstacle-detectable mobile robotic device as defined in claim 1, wherein said reflector is a mirror surface or a metallic surface. 4. The obstacle-detectable mobile robotic device as defined in claim 1, wherein said optical emitter comprises an infrared emitter and said optical receiver comprises an infrared receiver. 