A method for calibrating a controller of a robotic arm in a microelectronics manufacturing apparatus that includes storing a default position for an edge detector, moving a blade on the robotic arm based on the default position of the edge detector such that at least three edge points on the blade pass through and are detected by the edge detector, generating a plurality of arm position measurements from an arm position sensor by measuring a position with the arm position sensor of the robotic arm at each position of the robotic arm at which an edge point of the blade is detected by the edge detector, and determining at least one of an actual position of the edge detector and an offset for measurements of the arm position sensor based on the plurality of arm position measurements.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for calibrating a controller of a robotic arm in a microelectronics manufacturing apparatus, comprising: storing a default position for an edge detector; moving a blade on the robotic arm based on the default position of the edge detector such that at least three edge points on the blade pass through and are detected by the edge detector; generating a plurality of arm position measurements from an arm position sensor by measuring a position with the arm position sensor of the robotic arm at each position of the robotic arm at which an edge point of the blade is detected by the edge detector; and determining at least one of an actual position of the edge detector and an offset for measurements of the arm position sensor based on the plurality of arm position measurements. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the actual position of the edge detector is determined based on the plurality of arm position measurements. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the offset for measurements of the arm position sensor is determined based on the plurality of arm position measurements. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein both the actual position of the edge detector and the offset for measurements of the arm position sensor are determined based on the plurality of arm position measurements. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining step includes calculating a position of a center of the blade from the plurality of arm position measurements. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the blade is circular. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the at least one of the actual position of the edge detector and the offset for measurements of the arm position sensor are based on the diameter of the blade. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of generating a plurality of measurements includes detecting the at least three edge points on the blade with the edge detector. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein detecting the at least three edge points includes passing the blade across a light beam while changing the position of the robotic arm. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the edge detector includes a photo transmitter and a photo detector. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring an arm position includes measuring radial position and an angular position of the robotic arm. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing a default position for a station; picking up a substrate from the station with the blade of the robotic arm based on the default position of the station; moving the blade on the robotic arm such that at least three edge points on the substrate pass through and are detected by the edge detector; generating a second plurality of arm position measurements from the arm position sensor by measuring a position with the arm position sensor of the robotic arm at each position of the robotic arm at which an edge point of the substrate is detected by the edge detector; and determining an actual position of the station based on a the second plurality of arm position measurements. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein determining an actual position of the station includes calculating a position of a center of the substrate from the second plurality of arm position measurements. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the substrate is circular. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the station comprises a substrate transfer station for transporting substrate into or out of the microelectronic manufacturing apparatus. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein the station comprises a processing station. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising retrieving the substrate from a substrate transfer station and delivering the substrate to the processing station before retrieving the substrate from the processing station. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the processing station comprises an electroplating station. 19. The method of claim 12, further comprising determining a vertical position of the station. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein determining the vertical position includes moving a blade along a vertical axis toward the station and measuring a vertical position of the robotic arm when a pressure in a vacuum attaching system on the blade changes. 21. A method for calibrating a controller of a robotic arm in a microelectronics manufacturing apparatus, comprising: storing a default position for a station; picking up a substrate from the station with the blade of the robotic arm based on the default position of the station; moving the blade on the robotic arm such that at least three edge points on the substrate pass through and are detected by an edge detector; generating a plurality of arm position measurements from the arm position sensor by measuring a position with the arm position sensor of the robotic arm at each position of the robotic arm at which an edge point of the substrate is detected by the edge detector; and determining an actual position of the station based on the plurality of arm position measurements. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein determining an actual position of the station includes calculating a position of a center of the substrate from the second plurality of arm position measurements. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein determining an actual position of the station includes comparing a position of a center of the substrate with a position of a center of the blade. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein the substrate is circular. 25. The method of claim 21, wherein the station comprises a substrate transfer station for transporting substrate into or out of the microelectronic manufacturing apparatus. 26. The method of claim 21, wherein the station comprises a processing station. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising retrieving the substrate from a substrate transfer station and delivering the substrate to the processing station before retrieving the substrate from the processing station. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the processing station comprises an electroplating station. 29. The method of claim 21, further comprising determining a vertical position of the station. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein determining the vertical position includes moving a blade along a vertical axis toward the station and measuring a vertical position of the robotic arm when a pressure in a vacuum attaching system on the blade changes. 31. An apparatus for manufacturing integrated circuits, comprising: a substrate transfer station for transporting a substrate into or out of the apparatus; a processing station having a processing station center point; a robotic arm having a blade for attaching a substrate thereon; an arm position sensor to measure a position of the robotic arm; an edge detector; and a controller configured to store a default position for the edge detector, move the blade based on the default position of the edge detector such that at least three edge points on the blade pass through and are detected by the edge detector, store an arm position measurement from the arm position sensor at each position of the robotic arm at which an edge point of the blade is detected by the edge detector, and determine at least one of an actual position of the edge detector and an offset for measurements of the arm position sensor based on the plurality of arm position measurements. 32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the edge detector comprises a photo transmitter to generate a light beam and a photo detector. 33. The apparatus of claim 32, wherein the light beam generated by the photo transmitter is parallel to a rotating axis of the robotic arm. 34. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the blade for attaching the wafer thereon has a vacuum attaching system. 35. The apparatus of claim 34, wherein the controller is configured to monitor a pressure in the vacuum attaching system to detect whether the wafer is attached to the blade. 36. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the controller is configured to determine both the actual position of the edge detector and the offset for measurements of the arm position sensor based on the plurality of arm position measurements. 37. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the controller is configured to calculate a position of a center of the blade from the plurality of arm position measurements. 38. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the blade is circular. 39. The method of claim 38, wherein the controller is configured to determine at least one of the actual position of the edge detector and the offset for measurements of the arm position sensor based on the diameter of the blade. 40. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the controller is configured to: store a default position for a station, cause the robot arm to pick up a substrate from at least one of the substrate transfer station and the processing station with the blade of the robotic arm based on the default position of the station; move the blade on the robotic arm such that at least three edge points on the substrate pass through and are detected by the edge detector; store a second arm position measurement from the arm position sensor at each position of the robotic arm at which an edge point of the substrate is detected by the edge detector, and determine an actual position of the station based on the second position measurements. 41. A computer product tangibly embedded on a storage medium for calibrating a controller of a robotic arm in a microelectronics manufacturing apparatus, the computer product comprising instructions to: store a default position for an edge detector; move a blade on the robotic arm based on the default position of the edge detector such that at least three edge points on the blade pass through and are detected by the edge detector; generate a plurality of arm position measurements from an arm position sensor by measuring a position with the arm position sensor of the robotic arm at each position of the robotic arm at which an edge point of the blade is detected by the edge detector; and determine at least one of an actual position of the edge detector and an offset for measurements of the arm position sensor based on the plurality of arm position measurements. 42. The computer product of claim 41, wherein the actual position of the edge detector is determined based on the plurality of arm position measurements. 43. The computer product of claim 41, wherein both the offset for measurements of the arm position sensor is determined based on the plurality of arm position measurements. 44. The computer product of claim 41, wherein both the actual position of the edge detector and the offset for measurements of the arm position sensor are determined based on the plurality of arm position measurements. 45. The computer product of claim 41, further comprising instructions to: store default position for a station; pick up a substrate from the station with the blade of the robotic arm based on the default position of the station; move the blade on the robotic arm such that at least three edge points on the substrate pass through and are detected by the edge detector; generate a second plurality of arm position measurements from the arm position sensor by measuring a position with the arm position sensor of the robotic arm at each position of the robotic arm at which an edge point of the substrate is detected by the edge detector; and determine an actual position of the station based on a the second plurality of arm position measurements. 