For an electrolytic cell, an apparatus and method are described that use one or more sensors to measure magnetic field strength about a conductor carrying electrical current. A processor is in electrical communication with the sensors and determines a compensated magnetic field strength based on the magnetic fields of other conductors that also carry electrical current to or from the electrolytic cell. The processor uses this compensated magnetic field strength to determine the cathode electrical current carried by the conductor and to identify open and short circuits between the anodes and cathodes of the cell. The described apparatus and method account for interactions between the magnetic fields of the neighboring cathodes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: one or more sensors adapted to measure magnetic field strength generated about a conductor, said conductor adapted to carry electrical current to or from an electrolytic cell; a proximity sensor in electrical communication with one or more of said sensors for activating said sensors when said one or more sensors are in close physical proximity to one or more of said conductors; and a processor in electrical communication with one or more of said sensors for determining a compensated magnetic field strength generated about said conductor by compensating said magnetic field strength for other magnetic fields generated by other conductors adapted to carry electrical current to or from said electrolytic cell. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said processor uses said compensated magnetic field strength to determine cathode electrical current carried by said conductor. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising: means for identifying a short circuit between an anode and cathode of said electrolytic cell based on said cathode electrical current. 4. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising: means for identifying an open circuit at an anode or cathode of said electrolytic cell based on said cathode electrical current. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising: means for identifying a short circuit between an anode and cathode of said electrolytic cell if said cathode electrical current is above a specified value. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, further comprising: means for identifying an open circuit at an anode or cathode of said electrolytic cell if said cathode electrical current is below a specified value. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein one or more of said sensors are Hall Effect sensors detached from the conductor. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said apparatus includes one or more sensors for each cathode of said electrolytic cell. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: means for communicating said compensated magnetic field strength to a central control unit. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said apparatus is selected from a group consisting of a hand-held pole, a rail car, a robot, and a crane. 11. A method, comprising: providing one or more sensors, said sensors adapted to measure magnetic field strength generated about a conductor, said conductor adapted to carry electrical current to or from an electrolytic cell; detecting, with a proximity sensor, when the one or more sensors are proximate to the conductor; and determining a compensated magnetic field strength generated about said conductor by compensating said magnetic field strength for other magnetic fields generated by other conductors adapted to carry electrical current to or from said electrolytic cell. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining cathode electrical current carried by said conductor based on said compensated magnetic field strength. 13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying a short circuit between an anode and cathode of said electrolytic cell based on said cathode electrical current. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying an open circuit at an anode or cathode of said electrolytic cell based on said cathode electrical current. 15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying a short circuit between an anode and cathode of said electrolytic cell if said cathode electrical current is above a specified value. 16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying an open circuit at an anode or cathode of said electrolytic cell if said cathode electrical current is below a specified value. 17. The method of claim 11, wherein one or more of said sensors are Hall effect sensors, the method comprising activating, with the proximity sensor, the Hall effect sensors. 18. The method of claim 11, further comprising: providing a sensor for each cathode of said electrolytic cell. 19. The method of claim 11, further comprising: communicating said compensated magnetic field strength to a central control unit. 20. The method of claim 11, further comprising: providing one or more of said sensors via an apparatus selected from a group consisting of a hand-held pole, a rail car, a robot, and a crane. 21. The method of claim 11 wherein the electrolytic cell comprises a plurality of spaced-apart conductors, the method comprising moving the sensors across the conductors. 