The present invention comprises a container transport and loading system. The system generally comprises a load port for presenting articles to a tool and a container transport system. In one embodiment, the load port includes a vertically movable FOUP advance plate assembly that is adapted to load and unload a FOUP from a conveyor that passes by the load port and move the FOUP horizontally. In another embodiment, the load port includes a vertically movable support structure that is adapted to load and unload a container from a shuttle that passes by the load port. The various embodiments of the load port and container transport system are improvements over conventional container transport systems. The present invention also includes a shuttle for simultaneously transporting multiple containers that a load port may load or unload a container from.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for presenting a container storing at least one article to a processing tool, comprising: (a) a load port, including: a frame having an opening; a support structure being adapted to receive a container; and a drive mechanism for moving said support structure substantially vertically between a first height and a second height; and (b) a conveyor for movably supporting the container substantially along a container transport plane; wherein a container traveling on said conveyor moves unobstructed over said support structure when said support structure is located at said second height, wherein the container traveling unobstructed does not contact said support structure while traveling over said support structure located at said second height, wherein said support structure, when located at said second height, is located below said transport plane; wherein said support structure, when located at said first height, is located above said transport plane. 2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said load port further includes a port door being adapted to move between a closed position preventing an article from passing through said opening and an open position allowing an article to pass through said opening. 3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said support structure comprises a container advance assembly being adapted for moving the container substantially horizontally. 4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said support structure is able to receive a container for transporting semiconductor wafers having a diameter between 150 mm-500 mm. 5. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said support structure is being adapted to receive a container for transporting a flat panel display. 6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said mechanism comprises: an arm affixed to said support structure; and a drive assembly for moving said arm vertically. 7. The system as recited in claim 6, wherein said conveyor comprises: a first rail parallel to the direction of travel of a container in the conveyor; and a second rail spaced apart from said first rail and parallel to the first rail; wherein the portion of said first rail passing said load port includes a feature allowing said arm to pass unobstructed through at least a pan of said first rail. 8. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said conveyor comprises: a first rail having a top surface; and a second rail spaced apart from said first rail. 9. The system as recited in claim 8, wherein said mechanism includes a vertically adjustable arm having a distal end affixed to said support structure. 10. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said conveyor comprises a belt conveyor. 11. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said conveyor comprises a rail and a plurality of rollers each rotatably secured to said rail, each one of said plurality of rollers being spaced apart from each other and extending outward from said rail. 12. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein said support structure comprises at least two fingers spaced apart from each other such that each said finger nests between adjacent rollers when said support structure is located at said second height. 13. In a semiconductor fabrication apparatus having a conveyor for movably supporting a container along a first rail and a second rail between processing tools, a load port comprising: a frame having an opening; a support structure being adapted to receive a container; and a mechanism, connected to said support structure, for moving said support structure substantially vertically with respect to said frame, said mechanism being adapted to lower said support structure to a predetermined position between said first and second rails of said conveyor such that a container moving along said conveyor passes unobstructed over said support structure, wherein said support structure, when located at said predetermined position, is located below the container moving plane, said mechanism being adapted to raise said support structure to an upper position such that another container moving along said conveyor passes unobstructed under said support structure when said support structure is at the upper position. 14. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein said support structure comprises a container advance assembly for moving a container seated on said advance assembly substantially horizontally with respect to said frame. 15. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein said support structure is able to receive a container for storing semiconductor wafers having a diameter between 150 mm-600 mm. 16. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein said support structure is being adapted to receive a container for transporting a flat panel display. 17. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein said mechanism comprises: an arm having a distal end affixed to said support structure; and a drive assembly for moving said arm vertically with respect to said frame. 18. The system as recited in claim 17, wherein the portion of said first rail passing said load port includes a feature allowing said arm to pass unobstructed through at least a portion of said first rail. 19. A semiconductor fabrication apparatus having a conveyor for movably supporting a container, storing at least one semiconductor wafer, between processing tools, the conveyor being adapted to move the container substantially along a container transport plane, a load port comprising: a frame having an opening; a horizontally adjustable support structure for receiving the container; an arm affixed to said horizontally adjustable support structure; a drive mechanism, connected to said arm, for moving said support structure substantially vertically with respect to said frame, said mechanism being adapted to lower said horizontally adjustable support structure to a predetermined position having an elevation lower than the container transport plane to allow a container moving along the conveyor to pass unobstructed over said horizontally adjustable support structure and to pass unobstructed without contacting said support structure, said mechanism being adapted to raise said load horizontally adjustable support structure to an upper position having an elevation higher than the container transport plane. 