A mobile robot includes a robot chassis having a forward end, a rearward end and a center of gravity. The robot includes a driven support surface to propel the robot and first articulated arm rotatable about an axis located rearward of the center of gravity of the robot chassis. The arm is pivotable to trail the robot, rotate in a first direction to raise the rearward end of the robot chassis while the driven support surface propels the chassis forward in surmounting an obstacle, and to rotate in a second opposite direction to extend forward beyond the center of gravity of the robot chassis to raise the forward end of the robot chassis and invert the robot endwise.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot comprising: a robot chassis having a forward end, a rearward end and a center of gravity; a driven support surface moveably connected to the chassis and configured to propel the robot chassis forward and rearward; a first articulated arm rotatable about an axis located rearward of the center of gravity of the robot chassis, wherein the arm is configured to trail the robot, to rotate in a first direction to raise the rearward end of the robot chassis while the driven support surface propels the chassis forward in surmounting an obstacle, and to rotate in a second opposite direction to extend forward beyond the center of gravity of the robot chassis to raise the forward end of the robot chassis and invert the robot endwise; and a controller configured to execute an obstacle surmounting control routine stored on the mobile robot to drive the support surface to place the support surface in contact with a riser of a first stair below an uppermost edge of the first stair riser and to further drive the support surface to cause the forward end of the robot to ascend the first stair riser, the support surface generating sufficient traction against the riser to climb the riser as the support surface is driven, and to pivot the articulated arm to raise the rearward end of the vehicle while the forward end of the vehicle is supported by the first stair. 2. The robot of claim 1, wherein the driven support surface includes a flexible track trained about a pair of wheels. 3. The robot of claim 2, wherein the axis of the arm is coaxial with an axis of a one of the wheels. 4. The robot of claim 1, further comprising a second articulated arm rotatable about the axis with the first articulated arm. 5. The robot of claim 1, wherein the first and second arms are located outward of the driven support surface and are continuously rotatable in either direction. 6. The robot of claim 1, where in the first arm is located substantially along a central longitudinal axis of the robot chassis. 7. The robot of claim 1, wherein the first arm is continuously rotatable to provide a swimming-type propulsion. 8. The robot of claim 1, wherein the first arm is configured to rotate at a predetermined rate as a function of an angle of incline of the robot chassis. 9. The robot of claim 1, further comprising a radio transceiver and wherein the first arm is rotatable to raise the robot chassis to elevate the transceiver. 10. The robot of claim 1, further comprising a cliff detector at the forward end and a proximity sensor on a side of the robot. 11. The robot of claim 1, further comprising a slip clutch between the first arm and a first arm drive motor. 12. The robot of claim 1, wherein the vehicle substantially fits within a bounding volume approximately 7 inches long, 5 inches wide and 2 inches tall. 