Fluid dispensing apparatus uses positive displacement of the fluid for accurate metering of the quantity of liquid applied to a surface. Positive displacement includes a metering volume that is filled and emptied so that each cycle corresponds to an accurate volume of material dispensed independent of viscosity. In one embodiment, a positive displacement pump is used with a variable speed air motor. The air motor drives the pump. A variable output air regulator supplies air pressure to run the air motor based on a position signal. A profile may be used to relate position with motor speed and to control quantity to be dispensed.
Claims Having thus described the invention, I claim: 1. Fluid dispensing apparatus, comprising: a positive displacement pump having an inlet connectable to a supply of fluid to be dispensed and an outlet, said positive displacement pump comprising a piston pump with a metering volume defined by a piston chamber of said pump; a dispensing head having a flow path in fluid communication with said pump outlet, a porous web of material through which the fluid is applied to a surface; said dispensing head supporting said porous web of material; said flow path being unobstructed from said pump outlet to said porous web without a valve in said flow path, wherein said dispensing head pivots about a first axis and comprises means to restrict pivoting about another axis. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said means to restrict pivoting comprises a pivot pin and associated groove arrangement inside said dispensing head. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 comprising an accumulator in fluid communication with fluid from said pump outlet. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 comprising a pressure sensor that detects pressure of fluid into said pump. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said dispensing head is supported on a guide mechanism that allows said head to be repositioned for replacing said web of material. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 comprising a drive device for moving said web to expose unused web to fluid being dispensed. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 comprising an air motor operatively coupled to said pump. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 comprising a coupling between said pump and said air motor with said pump and said coupling aligned at an angle that determines flow rate of said pump. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein said air motor comprises a variable speed motor and quantity of fluid dispensed is a function of said air motor speed. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 comprising a speed signal indicative of said air motor speed. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 comprising a pressure regulator that produces a variable output pressure that drives said air motor. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said variable output pressure is a function of a position signal. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said pressure regulator produces an output air pressure based on position of a dispensing head relative to the surface on which fluid is being dispensed. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 comprising a signal that corresponds to position of said dispensing head, said pressure regulator producing an output air pressure that is a function of said position signal. 15. The apparatus of claim 14 comprising a control circuit that accesses a dispense rate profile that relates said position signal to output air pressure to said air motor. 16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein said position profile comprises a software database. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said database comprises at least one of the following: a) empirical data relating position of a robotic arm and flow rate of material to be dispensed; b) robotic arm position to said positive displacement pump output; and c) position zone of a robotic arm to air motor speed. 18. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fluid is a primer and the surface is a windshield. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 comprising two dispensing heads with each dispensing head in fluid communication with a respective positive displacement pump and supply of fluid to be dispensed there through. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said dispensing heads dispense first and second primers to a flit on a windshield. 21. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the fluid to be dispensed has a low viscosity and said piston pump controls fluid flow to the porous web. 22. The apparatus of claim 21 wherein the fluid viscosity is less than 100 centipoises. 23. Fluid dispensing apparatus, comprising: a positive displacement pump having an inlet connectable to a supply of fluid to be dispensed and an outlet, said positive displacement pump comprising a piston pump with a metering volume defined by a piston chamber of said pump; an air motor operatively coupled to said pump; said air motor comprises a variable speed motor and wherein quantity of fluid dispensed is a function of said air motor speed; a dispensing head having a flow path in fluid communication with said pump outlet, a porous web of material through which the fluid is applied to a surface; said dispensing head supporting said porous web of material; said flow path being unobstructed from said pump outlet to said porous web without a valve in said flow path. 