A printhead assembly includes an elongate casing. The casing defines a printhead channel extending there-along. A static pagewidth printhead is received within the printhead channel. The printhead includes an elongate fluid channel member defining a plurality of ducts for storing respective types of ink. The printhead further includes printhead tiles bearing respective printheads configured to eject ink supplied from the fluid channel member. The tiles are shaped to serially engage together so that adjacent printheads overlap along the length of the fluid channel member.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly comprising: an elongate casing defining a longitudinally extending printhead channel; and a static pagewidth printhead received within the printhead channel, the printhead comprising an elongate fluid channel member defining a plurality of ducts for storing respective types of ink, the printhead further comprising printhead tiles bearing respective printheads configured to eject ink supplied from the fluid channel member, the tiles being shaped to serially engage together so that adjacent printheads overlap along the length of the fluid channel member, wherein the fluid channel member comprises an elongate body portion defining parallel open channels, and a lid portion which is fastened to the body portion so that the open channels form the ducts, the lid portion defining a plurality of protruding ridges which can be received in respective open channels. 2. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tiles each define a pair of complementary stepped end regions to facilitate engagement of adjacent tiles. 3. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printheads are angled with respect to the length of the fluid channel member to facilitate the overlapping of the printheads. 4. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the fluid channel member defines spaced apart sets of outlet ports with the outlet ports of each set being in fluid communication with respective ducts. 5. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 1, wherein the body and lid portions are injection molded from polymeric materials. 6. A printhead assembly as claimed in claim 4, wherein the outlet ports of each set form a line which is angled relative to the length of the fluid channel member. 