A device and method are provided for needle penetrating and filling a chamber with a predetermined substance, and laser resealing a resulting needle hole in the device. A needle penetrable and laser resealable portion of the device is pierceable with a needle to form a needle aperture therethrough to fill the chamber through the needle, and is laser resealable to hermetically seal the needle aperture by applying laser radiation at a predetermined wavelength and power thereto. The needle penetrable and laser resealable portion defines a predetermined wall thickness in an axial direction thereof, and includes a thermoplastic that substantially prevents the formation of particles released into the chamber from the needle penetrable and laser resealable portion during penetration by and withdrawal of the needle. The thermoplastic includes a predetermined amount of pigment that allows the thermoplastic to substantially absorb laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength, substantially prevent the passage of radiation through the predetermined wall thickness thereof, and hermetically seal a needle aperture formed in the needle penetration region thereof in a predetermined time period.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising the following steps: providing a laser source that transmits laser radiation at a predetermined wavelength and power; providing a sealed, empty device defining a sterile chamber sealed with respect to ambient atmosphere and a resealable portion in fluid communication with the sterile chamber, wherein the resealable portion includes a body defining a predetermined wall thickness that substantially absorbs the laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength and power and substantially prevents the passage of the radiation therethrough, and a penetrable region that is penetrable with a filling member and that defines a predetermined color and opacity that substantially absorbs the laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength and power to hermetically seal an aperture therein; penetrating the penetrable region of the body with a filling member coupled in fluid communication with a source of a substance; introducing the substance through the filling member and into the chamber of the device; withdrawing the filling member from the penetrable region of the body; applying laser radiation from the laser source at the predetermined wavelength and power to an aperture formed in the penetrable region of the body; substantially absorbing within the penetrable region of the body the laser radiation at the predetermined wavelength and power and substantially preventing the passage of radiation through the predetermined wall thickness of the body; and hermetically sealing the aperture in the penetrable region of the body with the laser radiation within a predetermined time period and, in turn, hermetically sealing the substance within the chamber of the device. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of: sterilizing the sealed empty device prior to penetrating the penetrable region of the body with the filling member. 3. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein the sterilizing step includes transmitting radiation onto the penetrable region of the body. 4. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of using the body to thermally insulate the substance in the chamber from the laser energy applied by the laser source to avoid thermal damage to the substance in the chamber. 5. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the step of providing a resealable portion includes providing a body defining an underlying portion formed of a first material compatible with the predetermined substance and defining a substance-exposed surface exposed to the predetermined substance within the device; and a resealable portion overlying the underlying portion, the resealable portion and underlying portion being penetrable by the filling member for introducing the predetermined substance through the resealable portion and into the chamber of the device, wherein the penetrable region of the underlying portion is substantially infusible in response to the application of thermal energy from the laser source, and the penetrable region of the resealable portion is fusible in response to the application of thermal energy from the laser source. 6. A method as defined in claim 2, wherein the sterilizing step includes achieving an approximately 6 log reduction in bio-burden on the penetrable region of the resealable portion. 7. A method as defined in claim 6, further comprising the step of sterilizing the penetrable region within a cycle time of approximately 0.5 seconds. 8. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of introducing substance through a first fluid passageway of the filling member, and allowing fluid to flow out of the chamber of the device through a second fluid passageway upon introducing substance from the first fluid passageway into the chamber. 9. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the filling member is a needle. 10. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the device is a vial and the resealable portion is a stopper. 11. A method as defined in claim 1 wherein the substance is at least one of a liquid and a medicament. 