A riveting system is operable to join two or more workplaces with a rivet. In another aspect of the present invention, a self-piercing rivet is employed. Still another aspect of the present invention employs an electronic control unit and one or more sensors to determine a riveting characteristic and/or an actuator characteristic.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for setting a self-piercing rivet, said system comprising: a self-piercing rivet setting tool, said tool including a rivet engaging assembly, an axially movable member operatively coupled to said rivet for driving said rivet, a housing annularly disposed about said member; a sensor configured to monitor strains with the tool during a rivet setting process and producing strain output signal related thereto; and a monitoring circuit, having circuitry to: (a) receive a statistically significant series of training output signals from the sensor; (b) align the series of training output signals to form a series of output/time predetermined value pairs; and (c) form an example set of output/time signals; and (d) defining tolerance range at about the example output time signals. 2. The system for setting a self-piercing rivet of claim 1 wherein said monitoring circuit further includes circuitry to: produce from a series of strain output signals a measured strain-versus-time dataset; scan said measured strain-versus-time dataset to determine a first last local maximum strain value; scan said example strain-versus-time dataset to determine a second last local maximum strain value; and determine if the first last local maximum strain value and the second local maximum strain values are within one of a predetermined time tolerance band, or within a predetermined strain tolerance band. 3. The system of claim 1 wherein the strain sensor is configured to measure strain in an axial direction. 4. The system for setting a self-piercing rivet of claim 1 further including an indicator operatively connected to said measurement circuit for signaling to an operator the acceptability of the set based on said comparison of said strain output/predetermined value pairs. 5. The system of claim 1 wherein said sensor is a micro-strain sensor. 6. The system of claim 1 wherein said monitoring circuit includes an integrator, a comparator connected with said integrator, and a programmable memory connected with said comparator. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the housing comprises a c-shaped structure. 8. The system of claim 7 wherein the sensor is positioned on an exterior surface of the c-shaped structure. 9. The system according to claim 7 wherein the body defines a sensor mounting location, said sensor mounting location being at a point on the c-shaped structure which experiences deformation during a rivet setting event. 10. A rivet monitoring system comprising: (a) an electrical control unit; (b) an electric motor connected to the electrical control unit; (c) a transmission operably driven by energization of the electric motor; (d) a riveting punch operably advanced by the transmission; and (e) a sensor connected to the electrical control unit, the sensor being operable to sense strain induced by reaction forces induced by energization of the motor, wherein the electrical control unit, comprises a circuit configured to: (a) receive a statistically significant number of series of training strain output signals from the sensor; (b) align the series of training strain output signals to form a series of output/time predetermined value pairs; and (c) form an example set of output/time signals from the series of output/time predetermined value pairs; and (d) defining tolerance range at about the example set of output time signals. 11. The system of claim 10 further comprising a rivet operably driven by the punch. 12. The system of claim 10 further comprising a rivet feeder having an actuator connected to the electronic unit and a feed tube sensor connected to the electrical control unit, wherein the electrical control unit operably controls feeding of the rivet by the feeder during the riveting process and the feed tube sensor sends a signal to the electronic control unit indicative of the presence of the rivet. 13. The system of claim 12 wherein the transmission operably converts rotary motion of the electric motor to linear motion for moving the punch. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the transmission includes a closed loop belt. 15. The system of claim 10 wherein the strain changes at least in part due to varying rivet setting performance. 16. The system of claim 10 wherein the sensor operably senses a strain within the c-shaped structure of the punch. 17. The system of claim 10 wherein the sensor operably senses a strain in the transmission. 18. The system of claim 10 wherein the electric control unit is a programmable computer. 19. A monitoring system comprising: (a) a programmable monitoring unit; (b) a riveting machine including a linear drive; (c) a self piercing rivet operably set by the riveting machine when the control unit causes energization of the linear drive; and (d) a sensor configured to measure strains within a component of the riveting machine said strains being induced by a moment caused by energization of the linear drive, wherein the programmable monitoring circuit, comprises a circuitry configured to: receive a statistically significant number of series of training strain output signals from the sensor; align the series of training strain output signals to form a series of output/time predetermined value pairs; and form an example set of output/time signals from the series of output/time predetermined value pairs; and defining tolerance range at about the example set of output time signals. 20. The system of claim 19 wherein the monitoring unit compares a signal generated by the sensor to previously stored data. 21. The system of claim 19 wherein the sensor is attached to a c-shaped support of the riveting machine. 22. The system of claim 19 wherein the sensor is operable to indicate changes in strain during a rivet set process. 23. The system of claim 19 wherein the monitoring unit is operable to prevent operation of the linear drive. 24. The system of claim 19 further comprising an articulating robot, the riveting machine being attached to and positioned by the robot. 25. The system of claim 19 wherein the monitoring unit transmits an error signal if an undesired condition is present. 26. The system of claim 19 wherein the monitoring unit determines if a riveting characteristic is within a desired range. 