A warehousing system and apparatus for retrieving articles from a preselected storage area containing a quantity of the same and delivering them to a designated area spaced therefrom. A track extends a selected distance along a predetermined path that is offset a selected distance from the stored articles. A motorized carriage is rollingly mounted on the track and has a load carrying support surface thereon on which a payload is accumulated one article after another during the building of such load. A rigid superstructure is carried by the carriage and an extendible and retractable reach is mounted on thereon. A power operated article gripping assembly is carried by the reach for grasping articles one at a time in the storage area and loading them in sequence onto the carriage for delivery to the designated area. The apparatus is controlled from a location spaced from the storage area and inter-relates and controls movement of the carriage along said track, extension and retraction of the reach, and operation of the article gripping assembly to retrieve articles.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for retrieving articles from various different locations in a preselected area with a quantity of such articles therein and delivering the same to a designated area spaced from said preselected area, said apparatus comprising: a carriage rollingly mountable on a track system having a predetermined path offset a selected distance along said preselected area for the articles, said carriage having a load carrying support surface thereon for holding articles as they are retrieved in succession one after another from said preselected area and first power means on said carriage to propel the same along said track a rigid support superstructure carried by said carriage; reach means mounted on said superstructure and second power means to extend and retract the same, said reach means comprises an extendible and retractable boom, said boom includes a telescopic section; a power operated article gripping assembly carried by said reach means for grasping an article to be retrieved from said preselected area and place it on said carriage load carrying surface; and means mounting said boom on said superstructure comprising a pair of interconnected gear head rotators with respective first and second angularly related pivot axes, means mounting one of said rotators on a section of said boom and the other on said superstructure. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 including means to inter-relate and control movement of the carriage along said track, movement of said reach means, operation of the article gripping assembly to retrieve articles one after another from said storage area to accumulate a load on said carriage and deliver such load to said designated area. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 including a mono rail, means mounting said mono rail on said superstructure, a mono rail carriage mounted on said mono rail for movement thereon and wherein said other one of said rotators is secured to said mono rail carriage. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 including power means on said superstructure and drivingly connected to said reciprocally mounted frame structure to raise and lower the same and power means mounted on said reciprocally mounted frame structure and drivingly connected to said reach means to selectively extend and retract the same. 5. Apparatus as defined in claim 3 wherein said reach unit is extendible respectively beyond each of opposite sides of said superstructure. 6. An apparatus for retrieving articles from various different locations in a preselected area with a quantity of such articles therein and delivering the same to a designated area spaced from said preselected area, said apparatus comprising: a carriage rollingly mountable on a track system having a predetermined path offset a selected distance along said preselected area for the articles, said carriage having a load carrying support surface thereon for holding articles as they are retrieved in succession one after another from said preselected area and first power means on said carriage to propel the same along said track rigid support superstructure carried by said carriage; reach means mounted on said superstructure and second power means to extend and retract the same; a power operated article gripping assembly carried by said reach means for grasping an article to be retrieved from said preselected area and place it on said carriage load carrying surface; said article gripping assembly comprises: a base assembly; a first elongate member mounted on said base assembly, said elongate member extending in a first direction and terminating in a first jaw member on a free outer end thereof, said jaw member having an article engaging face thereon; a second elongate member movably mounted on said first elongate member for movement longitudinally there along in a direction toward and away from said first jaw member; said first and second elongate members being angularly related with respect to one another; a second jaw member mounted on said second elongate member and being moveable in a direction toward and away from said first elongate member; and power means for moving said second jaw member. 7. Apparatus as defined in claim 6 wherein said elongate members are disposed perpendicular to one another. 8. An apparatus for retrieving articles from various different locations in a preselected area with a quantity of such articles therein and delivering the same to a designated area spaced from said preselected area, said apparatus comprising: a carriage rollingly mountable on a track system having a predetermined path offset a selected distance along said preselected area for the articles, said carriage having a load carrying support surface thereon for holding articles as they are retrieved in succession one after another from said preselected area and first power means on said carriage to propel the same along said track; said track system comprising at least two spaced apart rails shaped to capture at least two rows of wheels (supporting said carriage) from above and on an exposed side of said wheels, thereby guiding said carriage in a precise path down said track system; a rigid support superstructure carried by said carriage; reach means mounted on said superstructure and second power means to extend and retract the same; a power operated article gripping means assembly carried by said reach means for grasping an article to be retrieved from said preselected area and place it on said carriage load carrying surface; said gripping means comprises a variable size peripheral frame for embracing at least one article to be retrieved, said frame containing at least four sides wherein at least three sides contain interior walls capable of moving toward and away from said at least one article to be gripped; power means connected to said variable in size frame selectively to vary the size of the same for receiving and grasping an article; and means mounting said variable in size frame on said reach means. 9. The apparatus as defined in claim 8 wherein said reach means comprises a frame structure reach unit reciprocally mounted for vertical up and down movement on said superstructure and an extendible and retractable reach unit reciprocally mounted on said frame structure for extension and retraction in a horizontal direction and wherein said article gripping means is mounted on said reach unit. 10. The apparatus of claim 8 including means to inter-relate and control movement of the carriage along said track, movement of said reach means, operation of the article gripping assembly to retrieve articles one after another from said storage area to accumulate a load on said carriage and deliver such load to said designated area. 11. The apparatus as defined in claim 8 wherein said at least four interior walls are covered with a compressible gripping material. 12. Apparatus for retrieving articles from a stack of the same in a selected storage area and load the same onto a mobile carriage means, said apparatus comprising: a support structure; an extendable and retractable boom; means mounting said boom, adjacent one end thereof, on said support structure; a work head tool; and means mounting said work head tool on a free outer end of said boom opposite to said one end, said work head tool comprising a yoke attached to said boom and extending from said free outer end thereof, a first elongate member pivotally attached to said yoke, a first jaw member secured to and extending from said first elongate member, a second elongate member disposed at an angle perpendicular to said first elongate member and movably mounted on said first elongate member for movement longitudinally therealong, a second jaw member mounted on a distal end of said second elongate member and being reciprocally movable in directions toward and away from said first elongate member, said second jaw member having an article engaging face positionable in face-to-face relation with said first jaw member. 