Embodiments of the invention are directed to systems, methods, and apparatus for providing continuous power and utilities to a fixture in a manufacturing process. In one embodiment of the invention, a system with robot, such as a robotic arm, and a workstation can be deployed in a manufacturing process. A fixture associated with the manufacturing process can include a mount operable for receiving power from the robot or robot arm, and another mount operable for receiving power from the workstation. An associated control device, such as a programmable logic circuit, can selectively provide power via either mount depending on whether the fixture is mounted to the robot or robotic arm, or to the workstation.
Claims The claimed invention is: 1. A system for providing continuous power from a power source to a fixture in a manufacturing process, the system comprising: a workstation; a robot operable to perform at least one manufacturing task associated with at least one manufacturing component; a fixture comprising: at least one robot mount operable to mount to and to receive power from the robot; at least one workstation mount operable to mount to and to receive power from the workstation; at least one power driven device to maintain an initial configuration of the at least one manufacturing component and operable to receive power via at least one of the at least one robot mount and the at least one workstation mount; a local control device operable for signal transmission with at least one main control device, the local control device comprising at least one of a programmable logic controller or a processor-based controller; and the at least one main control device configured to selectively transmit power to the fixture via at least one of the at least one robot mount or the at least one workstation mount with the fixture being mounted to both the workstation and the robot. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one main control device is configured to selectively transmit power to the fixture via the workstation when the fixture is exclusively mounted to a workstation, or via the robot when the fixture is exclusively mounted to the robot. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the manufacturing process comprises at least one of the following: a bicycle frame assembly process, a bicycle assembly process, a motorcycle assembly process, an automobile assembly process, or an appliance assembly process or plant. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the robot comprises at least one of the following: a robotic arm, or automated equipment for use in a manufacturing process. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the workstation comprises a base station in a manufacturing process. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the fixture comprises a tool for use in a manufacturing process. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one robot mount comprises a quick change connector device. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one workstation mount comprises a quick change connector device. 9. A system for providing continuous power from a power source to a fixture in a manufacturing process, the system comprising: a plurality of workstations, each workstation comprising a mount operable to receive a portion of a fixture and further operable to receive power from at least one power source, wherein the mount can transmit power to a fixture when the fixture is mounted to the respective workstation; a plurality of robots, each operable to perform at least one manufacturing task associated with at least one manufacturing component, wherein each robot comprises a mount operable to receive a portion of a fixture and further operable to receive power from at least one power source, wherein the mount can transmit power to a fixture when the fixture is mounted to the respective robot; at least one fixture comprising: a robot mount operable to receive a portion of a robot, wherein the robot mount is operable to transmit power to the at least one fixture when a robot is mounted to the at least one fixture; a workstation mount operable to receive a portion of a workstation, wherein the workstation mount is operable to transmit power to the at least one fixture when the at least one fixture is mounted to a workstation; at least one power driven device to maintain an initial configuration of the at least one manufacturing component and operable to receive power via at least one of the robot mount and the workstation mount; and a local control device operable for signal transmission with at least one main control device, the local control device comprising at least one of a programmable logic controller or a processor-based controller; and the at least one main control device configured selectively transmit power to the at least one fixture via a workstation or a robot when the at least one fixture is mounted to both the workstation and the robot, and further configured to selectively transmit power to the at least one fixture via a workstation when the at least one fixture is exclusively mounted to the workstation, or via a robot when the at least one fixture is exclusively mounted to the robot. 10. A method for providing continuous power to a fixture in a manufacturing process, the method comprising: providing a workstation; providing a robot operable to perform at least one manufacturing task associated with at least one manufacturing component; providing a fixture comprising: a robot mount operable to receive a portion of a robot, wherein the robot mount is operable to transmit power to the fixture when a robot is mounted to the fixture; a workstation mount operable to receive a portion of a workstation, wherein the workstation mount is operable to transmit power to the fixture when a workstation is mounted to the fixture; at least one power driven device to maintain an initial configuration of the at least one manufacturing component and operable to receive power via at least one of the robot mount and the workstation mount; and a local control device operable for signal transmission with at least one main control device, the local control device comprising at least one of a programmable logic controller or a processor-based controller; manipulating the robot to mount the fixture to the workstation, wherein the robot can provide power via the robot mount to the fixture; and selectively providing power to the fixture from either the robot or the workstation with the fixture being mounted to both the robot and the workstation, wherein selectively providing power to the fixture is facilitated by the at least one main control device, wherein the at least one main control device comprises at least one of the following: a programmable logic controller, a processor, or a software program. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: selectively providing power to the fixture via the workstation mount when the fixture is exclusively mounted to a workstation, or via the robot mount when the fixture is exclusively mounted to the robot. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the robot comprises at least one of the following: a robotic arm, or automated equipment for use in a manufacturing process. 13. The method of claim 10, wherein the fixture comprises a tool for use in a manufacturing process. 14. The method of claim 10, wherein the robot mount comprises a quick change connector device. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein the workstation mount comprises a quick change connector device. 16. A method for providing continuous power to a fixture in a manufacturing process utilizing at least one workstation and at least one robot, the method comprising: mounting a robot to a fixture, wherein the robot is operable to perform at least one manufacturing task associated with at least one manufacturing component, wherein the fixture comprises at least one power driven device to maintain an initial configuration of the at least one manufacturing component, wherein power can be transmitted to the fixture and the at least one power driven device via the robot, and wherein the fixture comprises a local control device operable for signal transmission with at least one main control device, the local control device comprising at least one of a programmable logic controller or a processor-based controller; mounting the fixture to a workstation; selectively providing power to the fixture from either the robot or the workstation with the fixture being mounted to both the robot and the workstation, wherein selectively providing power to the fixture is facilitated by the at least one main control device, wherein the at least one main control device comprises at least one of the following: a programmable logic controller, a processor, or a software program; manipulating the robot to dismount the robot from the workstation, wherein power is transmitted to the fixture via the workstation. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the robot comprises at least one of the following: a robotic arm, or automated equipment for use in a manufacturing process. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the fixture comprises a tool for use in a manufacturing process. 19. A method of using a fixture in a manufacturing process, the method comprising: providing a fixture comprising a workstation mount operable to mount to a workstation, the fixture further comprising: a robot mount operable to mount to a robot, and at least one power driven device to maintain an initial configuration of at least one manufacturing component associated with at least one manufacturing task, and a local control device operable for signal transmission with at least one main control device, the local control device comprising at least one of a programmable logic controller or a processor-based controller; manipulating the fixture to mount to a workstation; and selectively providing power to the fixture and the at least one power driven device via the workstation mount or via the robot mount with the fixture being mounted to both the workstation and the robot, wherein selectively providing power to the fixture and the at least one power driven device is facilitated by the at least one main control drive, the at least one main control device comprising at least one of the following: a programmable logic controller, a processor, or a software program. 20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: selectively providing power to the fixture and the at least one power driven device via the workstation mount when the fixture is exclusively mounted to a workstation, or via the robot mount when the fixture is exclusively mounted to the robot. 21. The method of claim 19, further comprising: manipulating the fixture to dismount from the workstation, wherein power is transmitted to the fixture via the robot. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the fixture comprises a tool for use in a manufacturing process. 23. A method of using a workstation in a manufacturing process with a robot, the method comprising: providing a workstation with at least one fixture mount operable to receive a portion of a fixture comprising at least one power driven device to maintain an initial configuration of at least one manufacturing component associated with at least one manufacturing task, the at least one fixture mount operable to transmit power from a power source, wherein the at least one fixture mount can provide power to the fixture and the at least one power driven device, and wherein the fixture comprises a local control device operable for signal transmission with at least one main control device, the local control device comprising at least one of a programmable logic controller or a processor-based controller; manipulating the fixture to mount to the workstation via the at least one fixture mount; and selectively providing power to the fixture via the at least one fixture mount with the fixture being mounted to both the workstation and a robot, wherein selectively providing power to the fixture is facilitated by the at least one main control device, the at least one main control device comprising at least one of the following: a programmable logic controller, a processor, or a software program. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising: selectively providing power to the fixture via the at least one fixture mount when the fixture is exclusively mounted to the workstation, or via the robot when the fixture is exclusively mounted to the robot. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the fixture comprises a tool for use in a manufacturing process. 26. A method of using a robot in a manufacturing process with a workstation, the method comprising: providing a robot operable to perform at least one manufacturing task associated with at least one manufacturing component, the robot comprising at least one fixture mount operable to receive a portion of a fixture comprising at least one power driven device to maintain an initial configuration of the at least one manufacturing component, the at least one fixture mount operable to transmit power from a power source, wherein the at least one fixture mount can provide power to the fixture and the at least one power driven device, and wherein the fixture comprises a local control device operable for signal transmission with at least one main control device, the local control device comprising at least one of a programmable logic controller or a processor-based controller; manipulating the robot to mount to the fixture via the at least one fixture mount; and selectively providing power to the fixture via the at least one fixture mount with the fixture being mounted to both the robot and a workstation, wherein selectively providing power to the fixture via the at least one fixture mount is facilitated by the at least one main control device. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: selectively providing power to the fixture via the at least one fixture mount when the fixture is exclusively mounted to the robot, or via a workstation when the fixture is exclusively mounted to the workstation. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the fixture comprises a tool for use in a manufacturing process. 29. The method of claim 26, wherein the at least one main control device comprises at least one of the following: a programmable logic controller, a processor, or a software program. 30. A system for providing at least one continuous utility from a utility source to a fixture in a manufacturing process, the system comprising: a workstation; a robot operable to perform at least one manufacturing task associated with at least one manufacturing component; a fixture comprising: at least one robot mount operable to mount to and to receive at least one utility from the robot; and at least one workstation mount operable to mount to and to receive the at least one utility from the workstation; at least one power driven device to maintain an initial configuration of the at least one manufacturing component and operable to receive the at least one utility via at least one of the at least one robot mount and the at least one workstation mount; and a local control device operable for signal transmission with at least one main control device, the local control device comprising at least one of a programmable logic controller or a processor-based controller; and the at least one main control device configured to selectively transmit the at least one utility to the fixture via at least one of the at least one robot mount or the at least one workstation mount with the fixture being mounted to both the workstation and the robot. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the at least one utility comprises at least one of the following: communications, air, or power. 32. A method for providing at least one continuous utility to a fixture in a manufacturing process, the method comprising: providing a workstation; providing a robot operable to perform at least one manufacturing task associated with at least one manufacturing component; providing a fixture comprising: a robot mount operable to receive a portion of a robot, wherein the robot mount is operable to transmit at least one utility to the fixture when a robot is mounted to the fixture; a workstation mount operable to receive a portion of a workstation, wherein the workstation mount is operable to transmit the at least one utility to the fixture when a workstation is mounted to the fixture; at least one power driven device to maintain an initial configuration of the at least one manufacturing component and operable to receive the at least one utility via at least one of the robot mount and the workstation mount; and a local control device operable for signal transmission with at least one main control device, the local control device comprising at least one of a programmable logic controller or a processor-based controller; and manipulating the robot to mount the fixture to the workstation, wherein the robot can provide the at least one utility via the robot mount to the fixture; and selectively providing the at least one utility to the fixture from either the robot or the workstation with the fixture being is mounted to both the robot and the workstation wherein selectively providing the at least one utility to the fixture is facilitated by the at least one main control device. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the at least one utility comprises at least one of the following: communications, air, or power. 