A robotic tool for assembling a portion of a disk drive includes a movable end effector that includes a first portion and a second portion that is movable relative to the first portion. The first portion may be configured to engage the actuator assembly and the second portion may be configured to engage the flex circuit connector. A controller may be provided to control the movable end effector, causing the end effector to pick up the head stack assembly in a first configuration, move the second portion of the end effector relative to the first portion thereof so as to articulate the head stack assembly into a second configuration that is different than the first configuration, and place the head stack assembly into the base.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assembling a portion of a disk drive, the disk drive including a base and a head stack assembly, the head stack assembly including an actuator assembly, a flex circuit coupled to the actuator assembly and a flex circuit connector coupled to the flex circuit, the method comprising: providing a robotic tool having a robotic end effector; coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly, the head stack assembly being disposed in a first configuration; articulating the robotic end effector to move the flex circuit connector relative to the actuator assembly, such that the head stack assembly is placed in a second configuration that is different than the first configuration; aligning the robotic end effector with the base; and placing the head stack assembly into the base. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the flex circuit connector is closer to the actuator assembly in the second configuration than in the first configuration. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the robotic end effector includes a first portion and a second portion that is movable relative to the first portion. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly includes: coupling the first portion of the robotic end effector to the actuator assembly; and coupling the second portion of the robotic end effector to the flex circuit connector. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein articulating the robotic end effector includes moving the second portion relative to the first portion to place the head stack assembly in the second configuration. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly includes coupling the robotic end effector to both the actuator assembly and the flex circuit connector. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the actuator assembly includes a pivot assembly and wherein coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly includes: moving first and second fingers of the robotic end effector to mechanically grip the pivot assembly of the actuator assembly; and applying suction through the robotic end effector to the flex circuit connector. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising merging the head stack assembly with opposing magnets of a voice coil motor after coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly and before placing the head stack assembly into the base. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein articulating is carried out after merging. 10. A method for assembling a portion of a disk drive using a robotic end effector, the disk drive including a base and a head stack assembly, the head stack assembly including an actuator assembly, a flex circuit coupled to the actuator assembly and a flex circuit connector coupled to the flex circuit, the method comprising: coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly, the head stack assembly being disposed in a first configuration; articulating the robotic end effector, such that the head stack assembly is placed in a second configuration that is different than the first configuration; aligning the robotic end effector with the base; and placing the head stack assembly into the base, wherein coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly includes coupling the robotic end effector to both the actuator assembly and the flex circuit connector. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the actuator assembly includes a pivot assembly and wherein coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly includes: moving first and second fingers of the robotic end effector to mechanically grip the pivot assembly of the actuator assembly; and applying suction through the robotic end effector to the flex circuit connector. 12. A method for assembling a portion of a disk drive using a robotic end effector, the disk drive including a base and a head stack assembly, the head stack assembly including an actuator assembly, a flex circuit coupled to the actuator assembly and a flex circuit connector coupled to the flex circuit, the method comprising: coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly, the head stack assembly being disposed in a first configuration; articulating the robotic end effector, such that the head stack assembly is placed in a second configuration that is different than the first configuration; aligning the robotic end effector with the base; and placing the head stack assembly into the base, wherein the robotic end effector includes a first portion and a second portion that is movable relative to the first portion, and wherein coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly includes: coupling the first portion of the robotic end effector to the actuator assembly; and coupling the second portion of the robotic end effector to the flex circuit connector. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein articulating the robotic end effector includes moving the second portion relative to the first portion to place the head stack assembly in the second configuration. 14. A method for assembling a portion of a disk drive using a robotic end effector, the disk drive including a base and a head stack assembly, the head stack assembly including an actuator assembly, a flex circuit coupled to the actuator assembly and a flex circuit connector coupled to the flex circuit, the method comprising: coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly, the head stack assembly being disposed in a first configuration; articulating the robotic end effector, such that the head stack assembly is placed in a second configuration that is different than the first configuration; aligning the robotic end effector with the base; placing the head stack assembly into the base; and merging the head stack assembly with opposing magnets of a voice coil motor after coupling the robotic end effector to the head stack assembly and before placing the head stack assembly into the base placing. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein articulating is carried out after merging. 