An aerial robot is disclosed. The aerial robot may include at least one pair of counter-rotating blades or propellers, which may be contained within a circumferential shroud or a duct. In one embodiment, the aerial robot may have the ability to hover and move indefinitely. Electric power to the robot may be provided by a tether or an on-board power supply. In tethered embodiments, a solid-state, electronic voltage transformer may be used to reduce a high voltage, low current source to lower voltage, higher current source. In one embodiment, secure data communication between a ground unit and the aerial robot is facilitated by impressing high bandwidth serial data onto the high voltage tether wires or a thin optical fiber which is co-aligned with the tether wires. In one embodiment, precise navigational and position controls, even under extreme wind loads, are facilitated by an on-board GPS unit and optical digital signal processors. In one embodiment, if the tether detaches, precision free-flight is possible with on-board batteries.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: (a) an aerial robot, the aerial robot comprising: (i) a first propeller for rotating in a first direction; (ii) a second propeller for rotating in a second direction opposite of the first direction; (iii) an observation device; (iv) at least one motor coupled to the first and second propeller that rotates the propellers; and (v) a low-voltage power supply interconnected with the at least one motor; a power supply; (b) a high-voltage power supply; and (c) a transmission line interconnecting the high-voltage power supply and the aerial robot; wherein the transmission line transmits power from the high-voltage power supply to the aerial robot and provides bi-directional communication to and from the aerial robot, wherein the low-voltage power supply transforms the power from the transmission line from a higher voltage to a lower voltage and provides the lower voltage to the at least one motor. 2. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the transmission line comprises a controlled impedance wire that transmits power from the high-voltage power supply to the aerial robot and provides bi-directional communication to and from the aerial robot. 3. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the transmission line comprises an electrical power line and an optical fiber communication line. 4. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the aerial robot further comprises an internal spool, wherein at least a portion of the transmission line is wound on the internal spool. 5. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the aerial robot further comprises an internal spool, wherein: at least a portion of the electrical transmission line is wound on the internal spool; the transmission line comprises a tether wire pair; a nominal diameter of each wire of the tether wire pair is 0.005 inches or less and is covered with a dielectric insulator. 6. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the high-voltage power supply provides power at a voltage of 500V or higher. 7. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the high-voltage power supply provides power at a voltage of 1000V or higher. 8. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the aerial robot further comprises: (vi) an internal duct comprising an inlet and an outlet, wherein the first and second propellers are disposed in the internal duct; and (vii) first and second movable air foils at the outlet of the internal duct to control movement of the aerial robot. 9. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the aerial robot comprises dimensions no greater than four inches by four inches by seven inches. 10. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the aerial robot and the high voltage power supply each comprises a spool connected to the transmission line, wherein at least one of the spools is powered. 11. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the observation device comprises at least one of: a camera, a sensor, and a microphone. 12. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the aerial robot further comprises a delivery device that delivers a payload from the aerial robot. 13. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the aerial robot further comprises an active noise reduction system that reduces noise in audible frequency ranges. 14. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the aerial robot further comprises an active noise reduction system that comprises at least two microphones, a digital signal processing microprocessor, and a speaker. 15. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the aerial robot further comprises a control system for providing hover stability, the control system comprising a microprocessor, a micro-machined gyroscope, and a micro-machined accelerometer. 16. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the aerial robot further comprises a flight control system, the flight control system comprising an optical digital signal processor circuit capable of maintaining aerial robot position while optically referenced to a ground object. 17. An apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the low-voltage power supply comprises a self contained power source and wireless control sensors. 18. A flying robot apparatus, comprising: a body; an internal duct through the body; at least one pair of counter-rotating propellers disposed in the internal duct; first and second remotely operated control fins; at least a first motor that rotates the counter-rotating propellers and receives power that is less than 24 volts; wherein the dimensions of the flying robot do not exceed approximately six inches by six inches by eight inches. 19. An apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the dimensions of the flying robot do not exceed the dimensions of a cylinder having a diameter of five inches and a height of seven inches. 20. An apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the dimensions of the flying robot do not exceed the dimensions of a cylinder having a diameter of four inches and a height of six inches. 21. An apparatus according to claim 18 further comprising a radio broadcast antenna. 22. An apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising a tether connected to the flying robot, the tether comprising a power transmission line and a bi-directional communication line. 23. An apparatus according to claim 18 further comprising a device delivery holder. 24. An apparatus according to claim 18 further comprising a spool and a tether at least partially wound on the spool, the tether comprising a power transmission and a bi-directional communication line. 25. An apparatus according to claim 18 further comprises an on-board camera movable to multiple positions with respect to the flying robot. 26. An apparatus, comprising: (a) an aerial robot, the aerial robot comprising: (i)a body; (ii) at least one pair of counter-rotating propellers mounted to the body; (iii) an observation device mounted to the body; (b) a remote communication center; and (c) a secure communication link connected between the aerial robot and the remote communication center that provides both power and communications to the aerial robot through a controlled impedance wire. 27. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein the secure communication link comprises a controlled impedance wire of 35 gauge or smaller that transmits power from the remote communication center to the aerial robot and provides bi-directional communication to and from the aerial robot. 28. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein the secure communication link further comprises a fiber optic cable. 29. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein the aerial robot comprises a powered rotating spool and at least one thousand feet of wire wound on the spool. 30. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein the aerial robot comprises: an internal duct inside the body, the internal duct comprising an inlet and an outlet, wherein the at least one pair of counter-rotating propellers are disposed in the internal duct; first and second orthogonal, movable air foils at an outlet of the internal duct to control movement of the aerial robot. 31. The apparatus according to claim 26 wherein the aerial robot comprises a cylinder having a diameter of no more than five inches and a length of no more than eight inches. 32. A method, comprising: flying an aerial robot, the flying an aerial robot comprising: counter rotating a pair of aerial robot propellers; navigating the aerial robot through a confined space; providing power to the aerial robot at a high voltage through a tether; transforming the high voltage power from the tether to a low voltage power; powering the aerial robot with the low voltage power; and securely communicating bi-directionally with the aerial robot. 33. A method according to claim 32, further comprising reducing audible noise from a microphone mounted to the aerial robot with a single input, single output, active noise reduction system. 34. An apparatus, comprising: an aerial robot, the aerial robot comprising: a duct housing; a first propeller for rotating in a first direction disposed in the duct housing; a second propeller for rotating in a second direction opposite of the first direction disposed in the duct housing; an elongated empennage attached to and extending away from the duct housing; a spool connected to the elongated empennage located at an approximate center of gravity of the aerial robot; an electrical transmission line at least partially wound on the spool comprising a controlled impedance wire; at least one aileron fin mounted to the elongated empennage and spaced from the duct housing; wherein the controlled impedance wire both transmits power to the aerial robot and provides bi-directional communication to and from the aerial robot. 35. An apparatus according to claim 34 wherein the aerial robot further comprises: a servomotor operatively attached to each of the at least one aileron fins and mounted to the elongated empennage; a transformer mounted to the elongated empennage. 