A traction control device and the method of making the same wherein the device has contact surfaces, typically formed from polycrystalline diamond compacts inserted into a base, and where the inserts, and in some embodiments the base, are machined or cut to induce profiles for enhanced gripping and improved wear characteristics.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A traction control device for gripping surfaces, the traction control device comprising: a base; a contact insert fixed to the base, wherein the contact insert comprises a contact surface, the contact surface comprising a polycrystalline diamond region: wherein the polycrystalline diamond region is bonded to a nonferrous substrate. 2. The traction control device, as recited in claim 1, wherein the base comprises a hard metal. 3. The traction control device, as recited in claim 1, wherein the base comprises a steel material. 4. The traction control device, as recited in claim 1, wherein the contact insert comprises a polycrystalline diamond region, bonded to a tungsten carbide region. 5. The traction control device, as recited in claim 1, wherein the contact surface has a surface shape selected from the group consisting of: rounded surfaces, pointed surfaces, ridges, grooves, flat surfaces and serrated surfaces. 6. The traction control device, as recited in claim 1, wherein the contact surface comprises a textured surface. 7. A traction control device, comprising: a base; a contact insert fixed to the base, wherein the contact insert comprises a contact surface, the contact surface comprising polycrystalline diamond; wherein the contact surface is structured to grip the sides of a hole. 8. The traction control device, as recited in claim 7, wherein the base comprises a hard metal. 9. The traction control device, as recited in claim 7, wherein the base comprises a steel material. 10. The traction control device, as recited in claim 7, wherein the contact insert comprises a polycrystalline diamond region bonded to a tungsten carbide region. 11. The traction control device, as recited in claim 7, wherein the contact surface has a surface shape selected from the group consisting of: rounded surfaces, pointed surfaces, ridges, grooves, flat surfaces and serrated surfaces. 12. The traction control device, as recited in claim 7, wherein the contact surface comprises a textured surface. 13. A traction control device, comprising: a base; a contact insert fixed to the base, wherein the contact insert comprises a contact surface, the contact surface comprising polycrystalline diamond; wherein the contact surface forms gripping jaws for lifting pipe. 14. The traction control device, as recited in claim 13, wherein the base comprises a hard metal. 15. The traction control device, as recited in claim 13, wherein the base comprises a steel material. 16. The traction control device, as recited in claim 13, wherein the contact insert comprises a polycrystalline diamond region bonded to a tungsten carbide region. 17. The traction control device, as recited in claim 13, wherein the contact surface has a surface shape selected from the group consisting of: rounded surfaces, pointed surfaces, ridges, grooves, flat surfaces and serrated surfaces. 18. The traction control device, as recited in claim 13, wherein the contact surface comprises a textured surface. 