An apparatus and method for detecting surface and subsurface objects is provided. A sweeping mechanism comprising a sensor is connected to a mounting frame. The mounting frame is connected to a motorized host platform. The sweeping mechanism sweeps the sensor according to a predetermined footprint when the motorized host platform either pulls or pushes the mounting frame. A signaling mechanism connected to the sensor produces a signal when the sensor senses an object beneath the surface.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An object detection apparatus for detecting surface and subsurface objects comprising: a sensor for detecting objects; a mounting frame; a motorized host platform connected to said mounting frame for either pulling or pushing said mounting frame; a sweeping mechanism connected to said sensor and said mounting frame for mechanically sweeping said sensor in a direction transverse to a motion of the motorized host platform according to a predetermined footprint when said motorized host platform either pulls or pushes said mounting frame; a signaling mechanism for signaling when said sensor senses an object beneath said surface. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said motorized host platform comprises a pincher mechanism for grabbing said mounting frame; and wherein said motorized host platform is connected to said mounting frame by said pincher. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sweeping mechanism comprises: a cradle for holding said sensor; a foam bed placed upon said cradle for holding said sensor and for dampening vibrations; a slant adjustment for adjusting a slant of said sensor, wherein said slant adjustment comprises a mounting plate comprising an upper and lower portion; wherein said upper portion is connected to and supports said cradle and said bottom portion further comprises a pivot and an adjusting arc comprising an arctuate slot; a riser yolk connected to said slant adjustment; said riser yolk comprising a set of upper holes and a set of lower holes; wherein said upper holes are connected to said pivot by a pin and wherein said lower holes are connected to said arctuate slot by an adjusting bolt; an oscillator plate connected to said riser yolk; said oscillator plate comprising an oscillator slot and a plurality of swing adjustment holes for defining said footprint of said sensor; a riser arm comprising a proximal and distal end; wherein said proximal end is connected to said oscillator plate by extending into one of said plurality of swing adjustment holes; an oscillator platter comprising a pin; wherein said pin extends through said oscillator slot; a vertical axle comprising an upper and lower end; wherein said upper end is connected to said distal end of said riser arm and upon which is fixed said oscillator platter; a horizontal cog gear upon which is fixed said lower end of said vertical axle; a vertical cog gear connected to said horizontal cog gear such that said vertical cog gear rotates said horizontal cog gear, thereby oscillating said oscillator platter which in turn oscillates said cradle and said sensor to sweep according to said predetermined footprint. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a carrying case for housing said sweeping mechanism in a folded or disassembled form. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said signaling mechanism comprises: a speaker electronically connected to said sensor; a processor electronically connected to said sensor and said speaker, wherein said processor is configured to control said speaker to make a noise when said sensor detects an object, and and a power unit electronically connected to said sensor, said speaker, and said processor for providing power thereto. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein said power unit comprises a solar panel. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said signaling mechanism comprises: a light electronically connected to said sensor; a processor electronically connected to said sensor and said light, wherein said processor is configured to control said light to emit electromagnetic waves when said sensor detects an object; and a power unit electronically connected to said sensor, said light, and said processor for providing power thereto. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said power unit comprises a solar panel. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a marking system connected to said sweeping mechanism for marking a surface of a medium; a processor electronically connected to said sensor and said marking system, wherein said processor is configured to control said marking system to mark a surface of a medium where an object is detected by said sensor. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensor comprises an adjustable caster wheel connected to a portion of said sensor for supporting said sensor and for adjusting a distance of said sensor from a surface being explored. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensing mechanism further comprises a processor; said processor configured to provide down-track accuracy. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a camera mounted either on said motorized host platform or on said mounting frame for capturing images of said signaling mechanism. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a camera mounted either on said motorized host platform or on said mounting frame for capturing images of an area being explored by said sensor. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sensor comprises ground penetrating radar. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said object comprises a mine. 16. A method for detecting surface and subsurface objects, the method comprising: providing a sensor for detecting an object on or beneath a surface of medium; providing a sweeping mechanism for sweeping said sensor in a direction transverse to a motion of a host platform connected to said sensor according to a predetermined footprint; operating said sweeping mechanism by pulling or pushing said sweeping mechanism; providing a signaling mechanism for signaling when said sensor senses an object beneath said surface. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said step of providing a signaling mechanism comprises providing a speaker electronically connected to said sensor and producing an audible noise from said speaker upon detection of an object by said sensor. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein said step of providing a signaling mechanism comprises providing a light electronically connected to said sensor and producing electromagnetic waves from said light upon detection of an object by said sensor. 19. The method of claim 16 further comprising: providing a marking system coupled to said sweeping mechanism; moving said sweeping mechanism in relation to an object; and marking a surface of a medium on or beneath which is located said object. 20. The method of claim 16 further comprising the step of: modifying said sweep footprint by replacing or altering parts of said sweeping mechanism. 21. A method for detecting surface and subsurface objects, the method comprising: sweeping a sensor in a direction transverse to a motion of a host platform connected to said sensor over a surface of a medium according to a predetermined footprint by pulling or pushing said sensor; detecting an object on or beneath said surface of said medium with said sensor; signaling when said sensor senses an object beneath said surface by either producing an audible noise or a visible electromagnetic waves. 22. The method of claim 21 further comprising the step of marking a surface of said medium on or beneath which is located an object. 23. A method for detecting surface of subsurface objects comprising: placing a self-contained object detector in an area to be inspected for a predetermined object; wherein said self-contained object detector comprises a sweeping mechanism connected to a sensor for sweeping said sensor in a direction transverse to a motion of a host platform connected to said self-contained object detector, and a mounting frame and a signaling mechanism for signaling when said sensor senses an object beneath said surface; operating said self-contained object detector by remotely controlling the host platform to push or pull the self-contained object detector; ceasing to operate the self-contained object detector; disconnecting the self-contained object detector from the host platform. 24. The method of claim 23 wherein the connecting step comprises grabbing said self-contained object detector with a pincher located on said host platform. 