An apparatus and method are providing for automated servicing of MIG welding torches and components thereof including the nozzle, the retaining head assembly, and the contact tip. The invention is directed to removing and cleaning a nozzle from a first end proximal to the torch, cleaning a retaining head assembly of deposited welding wire, or removing a used contact tip to be replaced with a replacement contact tip obtained from a magazine or combinations thereof. The invention can feature severing a welding wire or applying an anti-spatter solution to the torch or its components. The invention is also directed a plurality of maintenance operations being performed as to a stationary torch in an automated environment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for automated servicing of a welding torch nozzle including a first end of the nozzle that is adjacent to the torch when the nozzle is secured to the torch, the apparatus comprising: a moveable base; a nozzle removal tool mounted on the base and positionable by movement of the base for removing or replacing the nozzle when the base is in a first position; and a cleaning tool disposed in a spaced relation from the base that enters the first end of the nozzle and cleans an interior of the nozzle, when the base is in a second position after the nozzle is removed from the torch and the nozzle is moved by the base to the second position, wherein actuation of the moveable base interchanges locations of the first and second positions. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a third tool mounted on the base for at least one of removing or replacing the nozzle, wherein actuation of the base interchanges the location of the first tool and the third tool. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the nozzle is replaced with a second nozzle. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a clamping tool for securing the welding torch in a fixed location with respect to the apparatus while the nozzle is being serviced. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a tool for applying anti-spatter solution to a second end of the nozzle. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is adapted for automated relocation adjacent a second torch for servicing the second torch. 7. An apparatus for automated servicing of a welding torch that includes a contact tip secured to a retaining head assembly disposed within a removable nozzle, wherein the nozzle has a first end adjacent to the torch when the nozzle is secured to the torch and a second end remote from the torch, the apparatus comprising: a movable base; a first nozzle removal tool mounted on the base and postionable by movement of the base for removing or replacing the nozzle when the base is in the first position; a first cleaning tool that enters the first end of the nozzle and cleans an interior of the nozzle when the base is in a second position and the nozzle is moved by the base to the second position; a second nozzle removal tool mounted on the base and positionable by the movement of the base for removing or replacing the nozzle when the base is in the first or the second position, wherein actuation of the base interchanges the location of the first nozzle removal tool and the second nozzle removal tool; a second cleaning tool that rotatably contacts and cleans the retaining head assembly as the second cleaning tool engages a surface of the retaining head assembly; a sub-assembly positioned relative to the base that removes and replaces the contact tip obtained from a magazine that holds one or more replacement contact tips; and a clamping tool for securing the welding torch in a fixed location with respect to two or more of the base, the first cleaning tool, the second cleaning tool, or the sub-assembly while the torch is being serviced. 8. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising: a third cleaning tool for applying an anti-splatter solution to at least one of the second end of the nozzle, the retaining head assembly, or the replacement contact tip. 9. The apparatus of claim 7 further comprising: a fourth cleaning tool for severing a welding wire near at least one of the second end of the nozzle or an aperture of the contact tip. 