Portable devices and methods for preventing deep vein thrombosis (DVT) by assuring that the ankle is flexed and extended sufficiently to promote blood flow in the lower leg are disclosed. The device includes an actuator with a free movement mode that allows a patient to move freely between activations or to initiate movement to delay a next automatic activation.
Claims We claim: 1. An actuator system providing substantially free movement or force to an output member comprising: a motor driving a lead screw; a nut driven by the lead screw; an output member with at least one extension stop and at least one flexion stop; a first attachment configured to couple the actuator system to a first portion of a patient; and a second attachment configured to couple the output member to a second portion of the patient, wherein the first and the second portions of the patient are on opposite sides of a body joint capable of flexion and extension, and wherein the nut driven by the lead screw is configured to be moved to a first position located between the at least one extension stop and the at least one flexion stop allowing substantially free movement of the output member such that the patient can move the body joint in a first direction with little resistance when the first and the second attachments are coupled to the first and the second portions of the patient, and a second position in which the nut engages the at least one extension stop and causes the output member and the body joint to move in the first direction. 2. The actuator system of claim 1 wherein the flexion stop is attached to the output member and wherein the nut engages the flexion stop in a third position and causes the output member to move in a second direction opposite the first direction. 3. The actuator system of claim 1, wherein the first and the second attachments are pivotably coupled together. 4. The actuator system of claim 1, configured such that when the nut driven by the lead screw is moved to the second position to cause the output member to move in the first direction, the body joint is moved by the actuator system in an extension direction. 5. The actuator system of claim 1, further comprising: a portable power supply; and an embedded controller powered by the portable power supply and configured to control the motor. 6. The actuator system of claim 5, further comprising: a joint angle sensor operably coupled to the controller. 7. The actuator system of claim 5, further comprising: a force sensor operably coupled to the controller. 8. The actuator system of claim 5, further comprising: a connection port to communicate patient movement. 9. The actuator system of claim 1, wherein the substantially free movement of the output member is configured to be in an extension direction or a flexion direction. 