Described herein are transducers, their use and fabrication. The transducers convert between mechanical and electrical energy. The present invention further relates to compliant electrodes that conform to the shape of a polymer included in a transducer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An electrode for use with an electroactive polymer, the electrode comprising: a compliant portion in contact with a portion of the electroactive polymer, wherein the compliant portion comprises one or more regions of high conductivity and one or more regions of low conductivity, and wherein the one or more regions of low conductivity comprise a charge distribution layer that has a conductance greater than the electroactive polymer. 2. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the regions of high conductivity comprise a set of patterned traces. 3. The electrode of claim 2 wherein the set of patterned traces comprise a metal material. 4. The electrode of claim 2 wherein the set of patterned traces are configured to allow expansion and contraction of the electroactive polymer in multiple directions. 5. The electrode of claim 4 wherein the set of patterned traces include a zig-zag pattern. 6. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the patterned metal traces are offset from patterned metal traces included in a second electrode on an opposing side of the electroactive polymer. 7. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the charge distribution layer has a conductance less than a material used in the one or more regions of high conductivity. 8. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the one or more regions of low conductivity has a surface resistivity in the range of about 10.sup.6 ohms to about 10.sup.11 ohms. 9. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the electrode is patterned to form an active area according to the geometry of the electrode. 10. The electrode of claim 9 wherein the set of patterned traces form the active area according to the geometry of the patterned traces. 11. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the electroactive polymer includes an additive. 12. The electrode of claim 11 wherein the additive improves at least one of polymer dielectric breakdown strength, maximum linear strain, dielectric constant, elastic modulus, response time, and actuation voltage. 13. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the charge distribution layer includes carbon black. 14. The electrode of claim 1 wherein the charge distribution layer includes colloidal silver. 