Techniques for temperature-controlled ion implantation are disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment, the techniques may be realized as an apparatus for high-temperature ion implantation. The apparatus may comprise a platen to hold a wafer in a single-wafer process chamber during ion implantation, the platen having a wafer interface to provide a predetermined thermal contact between the wafer and the platen. The apparatus may also comprise an array of heating elements to heat the wafer while the wafer is held on the platen to achieve a predetermined temperature profile on the wafer during ion implantation, the heating elements being external to the platen. The apparatus may further comprise a post-implant cooling station to cool down the wafer after ion implantation of the wafer.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for high-temperature ion implantation, the apparatus comprising: a platen to hold a wafer in a single-wafer process chamber during ion implantation, the platen having a wafer interface to provide a predetermined thermal contact between the wafer and the platen; an array of heating elements to heat the wafer while the wafer is held on the platen to achieve a predetermined temperature profile on the wafer during ion implantation, the heating elements being external to the platen; and a post-implant cooling station to cool down the wafer after ion implantation of the wafer. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one portion of the wafer is heated by the array of heating elements when the wafer is scanned at least partially outside the coverage of an ion beam, thereby providing continuous heating of the wafer during ion implantation. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the wafer is continuously monitored for temperature changes, and wherein the continuous heating of the wafer with the array of heating elements is adjusted based on the monitored temperature changes. 4. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the array of heating elements is adjusted to a lower heat output when the wafer is heated by the ion beam. 5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one portion of the array of heating elements have adjustable heat output, and wherein the array of heating elements are adjusted to produce a substantially uniform temperature across the wafer. 6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the array of heating elements is arranged in a grid pattern selected from a group consisting of a hexagonal pattern, a Cartesian pattern, and a circular pattern. 7. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: at least one sensor to detect wafer temperature at one or more wafer locations. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the at least one sensor comprises a single contact-less temperature sensing device to estimate an average wafer temperature, and wherein the array of heating elements are configured to achieve a predetermined average wafer temperature based on the estimated average wafer temperature. 9. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the at least one sensor comprises multiple contact-less temperature sensing devices to detect wafer temperatures at multiple wafer locations, and wherein the array of heating elements are configured to achieve the predetermined temperature profile on the wafer based on the detected wafer temperatures. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the array of heating elements are selected from a group consisting of radiation lamps and laser heating devices. 11. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the array of heating elements are positioned to heat a front side of the wafer. 12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the platen is configured to have a sufficiently small thermal contact with a back side of the wafer to prevent substantial heat loss to the platen. 13. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the platen is coupled to a support structure configured to lift the wafer off from the front side of the platen to minimize thermal conduction from the wafer to the platen. 14. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the array of heating elements are positioned to heat a back side of the wafer. 15. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the thermal contact between the wafer and the platen is reduced by elevating the wafer above the platen surface with a support structure. 16. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the thermal contact between the wafer and the platen is reduced by reducing a clamping voltage or a backside gas pressure. 17. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a heating mechanism to pre-heat the wafer before heating the wafer with the array of heating elements. 18. The apparatus according to claim 1, being further configured to support room-temperature ion implantation or low-temperature ion implantation on the wafer. 19. The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the wafer is pre-chilled before the wafer is loaded onto the platen. 20. The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the platen is configured to cool the wafer for room-temperature ion implantation or low-temperature ion implantation, and wherein the platen is further configured to be substantially thermally isolated from the wafer when the wafer is heated by the array of heating elements for high-temperature ion implantation. 21. The apparatus according to claim 16, further comprising: one or more cooling elements to cool the platen; and a control mechanism coupled to both the array of heating elements and the cooling elements to switch ion implantation among a high-temperature mode, a room-temperature mode, and a low-temperature mode. 22. A method for high-temperature ion implantation, the method comprising the steps of: holding a wafer on a platen in a single-wafer process chamber; providing an array of heating elements to heat the wafer while the wafer is held on the platen, the heating elements being external to the platen; and controlling output intensity of the array of heating elements relative to the platen to achieve a predetermined temperature profile on the wafer during ion implantation. 23. The method according to claim 22, wherein at least one portion of the wafer is heated by the array of heating elements when the wafer is scanned at least partially outside the coverage of an ion beam, thereby providing continuous heating of the wafer during ion implantation. 24. The method according to claim 23, wherein the wafer is continuously monitored for temperature changes, and wherein the continuous heating of the wafer with the array of heating elements is adjusted based on the monitored temperature changes. 25. The method according to claim 23, wherein the array of heating elements is adjusted to a lower heat output when the wafer is heated by the ion beam. 26. The method according to claim 22, wherein at least one portion of the array of heating elements have adjustable heat output, and wherein the array of heating elements are adjusted to produce a substantially uniform temperature across the wafer. 27. The method according to claim 22, wherein the array of heating elements is arranged in a grid pattern selected from a group consisting of a hexagonal pattern, a Cartesian pattern, and a circular pattern. 28. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: detecting wafer temperature at one or more wafer locations. 29. The method according to claim 28, wherein the wafer temperature is detected with a single contact-less temperature sensor to estimate an average wafer temperature, and wherein the array of heating elements are configured to achieve a predetermined average wafer temperature based on the estimated average wafer temperature. 30. The method according to claim 28, wherein the wafer temperature is detected with multiple contact-less temperature sensors to detect wafer temperatures at multiple wafer locations, and wherein the array of heating elements are configured to achieve the predetermined temperature profile on the wafer based on the detected wafer temperatures. 31. The method according to claim 22, wherein the array of heating elements are positioned to heat a front side of the wafer. 32. The method according to claim 31, wherein the platen is configured to have a sufficiently small thermal contact with a back side of the wafer to prevent substantial heat loss to the platen. 33. The method according to claim 31, wherein the platen is coupled to a support structure configured to lift the wafer off from the front side of the platen to minimize thermal conduction from the wafer to the platen. 34. The method according to claim 22, wherein the array of heating elements are positioned to heat a back side of the wafer. 35. The method according to claim 22, wherein the thermal contact between the wafer and the platen is reduced by elevating the wafer above the platen surface with a support structure. 36. The method according to claim 22, wherein the thermal contact between the wafer and the platen is reduced by reducing a clamping voltage or a backside gas pressure. 37. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: pre-heating the wafer before heating the wafer with the array of heating elements. 38. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: performing room-temperature ion implantation or low-temperature ion implantation on the wafer. 39. The method according to claim 38, wherein, for the low-temperature ion implantation, the wafer is pre-chilled before the wafer is loaded onto the platen. 40. The method according to claim 38, wherein the platen is configured to cool the wafer for room-temperature ion implantation or low-temperature ion implantation, and wherein the platen is further configured to be substantially thermally isolated from the wafer when the wafer is heated by the array of heating elements for high-temperature ion implantation. 