A directed beam emitter system for robot navigation in which a light beam emitter emits a modulated directed light beam of a first modulation and an omnidirectional diffuse light region emitter emits a modulated diffuse light region of a second modulation. The modulated directed light beam and the modulated diffuse light region overlap in a plane parallel to ground level such that a light beam receiver on a robot may detect either one or both of the modulated directed light beam and the modulated diffuse light region. The light beam emitter is responsive to a control system used to control one or more light beam emitters.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A directed beam emitter system for robot navigation, comprising: at least one light beam emitter that emits a modulated directed light beam of a first modulation; and at least one omnidirectional diffuse light region emitter that emits a modulated diffuse light region of a second modulation, the modulated directed light beam and the modulated diffuse light region overlapping in a plane parallel to ground level such that a light beam receiver on a robot may detect either one or both of the modulated directed light beam and the modulated diffuse light region; and wherein the light beam emitter is responsive to a control system used to control one or more light beam emitters. 2. The directed beam emitter system of claim 1, wherein the modulated directed light beam is a modulated signal in an infrared frequency. 3. The directed beam emitter system of claim 1, wherein the light beam emitter is responsive to a control system that communicates directly with one or more light beam emitters allowing a cycling of work spaces. 4. The directed beam emitter system of claim 1, wherein the light beam emitter is responsive to a robot that sends a signal to the light beam emitter to turn the light beam emitter on. 5. The directed beam emitter system of claim 1, further comprising a retroreflector for reflecting the directed light beam. 6. The directed beam emitter system of claim 5, wherein the modulated directed light beam is reflected by the retroreflector back to a detector on the light beam emitter. 7. The directed beam emitter system of claim 6, wherein the light beam emitter emits a light beam of a third modulation upon interruption of the light beam of the first modulation. 8. The directed beam emitter system of claim 5, further comprising additional retroreflectors defining a series of work areas. 9. The directed beam emitter system of claim 5, further comprising additional retroreflectors defining a series of obstacles. 10. The directed beam emitter system of claim 1, further comprising: a detector on the light beam emitter, a retroreflector for directing the modulated light beam back to the light beam emitter; and an electromagnetic signal emitter that emits radio, x-ray or microwave signals to the robot in response to interruption of the light beam. 11. A retroreflector navigation system for robot navigation, comprising: a robot having a light beam receiver oriented in a manner to have an omnidirectional field of view; at least one omnidirectional diffuse light region emitter that emits a modulated diffuse light region, the omnidirectional modulated diffuse light region positioned in a plane parallel to ground level such that a light beam receiver on the robot is in the same plane as the omnidirectional modulated diffuse light region; and a series of retroreflectors for reflecting modulated directed light beams to define a series of work areas. 12. The retroreflector navigation system of claim 11, wherein the omnidirectional modulated diffuse light region is modulated in an infrared frequency. 13. The retroreflector navigation system of claim 11, wherein the light beam emitter is responsive to a robot that sends a signal to the light beam emitter to turn the light beam emitter on. 14. The retroreflector navigation system of claim 11, further comprising a detector on the omnidirectional light region emitter and wherein a modulated directed light beam of a second modulation is reflected by a retroreflector back to the omnidirectional light region emitter. 15. The retroreflector navigation system of claim 14, wherein the omnidirectional light region emitter emits a light beam of a third modulation upon interruption of the light beam of the second modulation. 16. The retroreflector navigation system of claim 11, wherein the series of retroreflectors defines an obstacle. 17. The retroreflector navigation system of claim 11, further comprising: a detector on the omnidirectional light region emitter; and an electromagnetic signal emitter that emits radio, x-ray or microwave signals to the robot in response to interruption of a directed light beam detected by the detector. 