A system and method are provided for manufacturing workpieces, such as metal articles like sputtering target, the system comprising: comparing one or more physical or chemical values of a respective one of a plurality of metal target blanks to one or more comparable values of at least one desired criterion; selecting one of the metal target blanks from a plurality of metal target blanks as a work-in-progress; assigning a serial route for the work-in-progress; processing the work-in-progress by translating the work-in-progress from note to node with an automated transport, after completion of the events at each node; rejecting or accepting the work-in-progress as a metal target by evaluating a result of at least one event of the one or more respective events to be completed at, at least one of the plurality of nodes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer implemented method for manufacturing a metal target, the method comprising: comparing one or more physical or chemical values of a respective one of a plurality of metal target blanks to one or more comparable values of at least one desired criterion, wherein the one or more physical or chemical values are stored in a data management system; selecting one of the metal target blanks from a plurality of metal target blanks as a work-in-progress; assigning a serial route for the work-in-progress, wherein the serial route comprises a plurality of nodes selected from a subset of a plurality of stations including at least one inspection station, wherein at least one node of the plurality of nodes comprises one or more respective events to be completed at the respective node and at least one of the plurality of nodes comprises a desired machine configuration for the respective node; processing the work-in-progress by translating the work-in-progress from node-to-node with an automated transport, after completion of the events at each node; and rejecting or accepting the work-in-progress as a metal target by evaluating a result of at least one event of the one or more respective events to be completed at, at least one of the plurality of nodes. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of metal target blanks comprises a target part number and the selecting a work-in-progress further comprises a desired target part number. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the assigning a serial route comprises assigning a serial route based on the desired target part number. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the metal target blank comprises a sputtering target. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the sputtering target comprises titanium, tungsten, gold, rhenium, copper, aluminum, tantalum, niobium, or alloys thereof. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of stations comprise one or more of a loading station, a computer numeric control (CNC) machining station, a cleaning station, a work-in-progress transfer station, a degrease, clean and dry station, an end-effector clean and dry station, a work-in-progress print station, an arc-spray station, a grit blast station, an inert gas tunnel comprising heating and cooling portions, a bagging station, or any combinations thereof. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one inspection station comprises one or more of a weigh station, an ultrasonic measurement station, a thickness measurement station, a surface smoothness measurement station, a cleanliness inspection station, a coordinate measuring machine (CMM) inspection station, an optical inspection station, a writing station for writing a Certificate of Compliance (COC), an bonding integrity test station, or any combinations thereof. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the work-in-progress comprises processing a plurality of works-in-progress simultaneously or substantially simultaneously, and the method further comprises tracking each of the plurality of works-in-progress. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein two or more of the plurality of works-in-progress are assigned a serial route different from the other of the two or more works-in-progress. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein each of the plurality of metal target blanks comprises a target part number, and the selecting a work-in-progress further comprises a desired target part number, and one of the plurality of works-in-progress comprises a target part number different than at least one other of the plurality of works-in-progress. 11. The method of claim 8, wherein at least two stations of the plurality of stations provide a same functionality, and the processing the plurality of works-in-progress comprises utilizing the at least two stations for two of the plurality of works-in-progress. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising optimizing routes of the plurality of works-in-progress by utilizing the at least two stations that provide the same functionality, concurrently for at least a portion of a processing cycle time of each of the at least two stations. 13. The method of claim 8, further comprising optimizing a translation path of the automated work-in-progress transport to minimize movement of the automated work-in-progress transport. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising maximizing a utilization of the plurality of stations, wherein maximizing comprises servicing a first station that reports a completed process and has a first cycle time, prior to servicing a second station that reports a completed process and has a cycle time longer than the first cycle time. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the assigning a serial route comprises presenting a graphical representation of the plurality of stations to an operator and accepting a serial route selected by the operator. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a capability to detect an error in at least one station of the plurality of stations. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a capability to detect a safety protocol breach of at least one station of the plurality of stations; and providing a capability to shut down at least one relevant station of the plurality of stations if the safety protocol breach occurs. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one station of the plurality of stations comprises a loading station, and the method further comprises loading into the loading station, the work-in-progress from an addressable array of metal target blanks utilizing at least one automated vehicle system. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising: bagging the metal target; and delivering the bagged metal target to an addressable array adapted to store metal targets utilizing at least one automated vehicle. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising: bagging the metal target; providing a bill of lading and a shipping label for the bagged metal target; and shipping the bagged metal target. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising coupling a Certificate of Compliance for the metal target to the metal target, wherein the Certificate of Compliance is in the form of paper, a machine readable identifier, a barcode, a radio frequency identification (RFID) tag, a computer media, a magnetic memory, an optical memory, a flash memory, or any combinations thereof. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the comparing comprises sorting the one or more physical or chemical values of the plurality of metal target blanks to maximize matching of outstanding manufacturing requests based on the at least one desired criterion. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising prioritizing manufacture of the metal targets by a date of delivery of outstanding manufacturing requests. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the physical or chemical values comprise purity levels for one or more chemical elements present in the metal target. 25. The method of claim 1, further comprising achieving a desired machine configuration for at least one of the plurality of stations and comprising one or more of an operator intervention, an operator input, an automated self configuration by at least one of the plurality of stations, use of a servo-subsystem adapted to configure the respective station into the desired machine configuration, or any combinations thereof. 26. The method of claim 1, further comprising completion and notifying of an event and comprising one or more of an operator input, a result reported by at least one station, an operator action in response to a prompt from a computer display, or any combinations thereof. 27. The method of claim 1, further comprising: associating a serial number with the work-in-progress; and recording a chronicle of processing and results of the processing associated with the work-in-progress by the serial number. 28. An automated system for manufacturing a metal target, the system comprising: a plurality of stations including at least one inspection station; a machine configuration stored in a memory for each of the plurality of stations; an automated work-in-progress transport adapted to translate the work-in-progress amongst the plurality of stations; computer code for selecting the work-in-progress from a plurality of metal target blanks adapted to compare one or more physical or chemical values stored in a data management system and corresponding to the selected work-in-progress to one or more comparable values of at least one desired criterion; computer code for assigning a serial route for the work-in-progress, wherein the serial route comprises a plurality of nodes selected from a subset of the plurality of stations, and at least one node comprises one or more respective events to be completed at the respective node and at least node comprises a desired machine configuration for the respective node; computer code for rejecting and accepting the work-in-progress as a metal target by evaluating a result of at least one event of the one or more events to be completed at each of the plurality of nodes; wherein the work-in-progress is processed by translating a work-in-progress from node to node after completion of the node events at each node. 29. The system of claim 28, wherein the physical or chemical values comprise composition values. 30. The system of claim 28, wherein the metal target blanks are sputtering targets. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the sputtering target comprises titanium, tungsten, gold, rhenium, copper, aluminum, tantalum, niobium, or alloys thereof. 32. The system of claim 28, wherein the plurality of stations comprise one or more of a loading station, a Computer Numeric Control (CNC) machining station, a cleaning station, a work-in-progress transfer station, a degrease, clean and dry station, an end-effector clean and dry station, a work-in-progress print station, an arc-spray station, a grit blast station, an inert gas tunnel comprising heating and cooling portions, a bagging station, or any combination thereof. 33. The system of claim 28, wherein the at least one inspection station comprises one or more of a weigh station, an ultrasonic measurement station, a cleanliness inspection station, a thickness measurement station, a surface smoothness measurement station, a Coordinate Measuring Machine (CMM) inspection station, an optical inspection station, a writing station for writing a Certificate of Compliance (COC), an bonding integrity test station, or a combination thereof. 34. The system of claim 28, further comprising computer code for processing and tracking a plurality of works-in-progress simultaneously or substantially simultaneously. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein the computer code for processing and tracking is adapted to process and track two or more of the plurality of works-in-progress having a serial route different from the other of the two or more works-in-progress. 36. The system of claim 28, further comprising one or more of a Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition (SCADA) system, a Programmable Logic Controller (PLC), a Human Machine Interface (HMI) station, a Real-Time Database (RTDB), a data network, a Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS), a Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, a historian system, or any combination thereof, in communication with at least one of the plurality of stations. 37. A computer implemented method for manufacturing a workpiece, the method comprising: comparing one or more physical or chemical values of a respective one of a plurality of workpieces to one or more comparable values of at least one desired criterion, wherein the one or more physical or chemical values are stored in a data management system; selecting one of the workpieces from a plurality of workpieces as a work-in-progress; assigning a serial route for the work-in-progress, wherein the serial route comprises a plurality of nodes selected from a subset of a plurality of stations including at least one inspection station, wherein at least one node of the plurality of nodes comprises one or more respective events to be completed at the respective node and at least one of the plurality of nodes comprises a desired machine configuration for the respective node; processing the work-in-progress by translating the work-in-progress from node-to-node with an automated transport, after completion of the events at each node; and rejecting or accepting the work-in-progress as a workpiece by evaluating a result of at least one event of the one or more respective events to be completed at, at least one of the plurality of nodes. 38. An automated system for manufacturing a workpiece, the system comprising: a plurality of stations including at least one inspection station; a machine configuration stored in a memory for each of the plurality of stations; an automated work-in-progress transport adapted to translate the work-in-progress amongst the plurality of stations; computer code for selecting the work-in-progress from a plurality of workpieces adapted to compare one or more physical or chemical values stored in a data management system and corresponding to the selected work-in-progress to one or more comparable values of at least one desired criterion; computer code for assigning a serial route for the work-in-progress, wherein the serial route comprises a plurality of nodes selected from a subset of the plurality of stations, and at least one node comprises one or more respective events to be completed at the respective node and at least node comprises a desired machine configuration for the respective node; computer code for rejecting and accepting the work-in-progress as a workpiece by evaluating a result of at least one event of the one or more events to be completed at each of the plurality of nodes; wherein the work-in-progress is processed by translating a work-in-progress from node to node after completion of the node events at each node. 