The present invention provides a flat fluorescent lamp. The flat fluorescent lamp comprises a single plate. Consequently, the flat fluorescent lamp is structurally safe, brightness of the flat fluorescent lamp is high, and efficiency of the flat fluorescent lamp is also high without the provision of other additional optical components. The present invention also provides a method of manufacturing such a flat fluorescent lamp.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A flat fluorescent lamp for flat panel display backlighting, comprising: a main plate having at least one through-hole formed to penetrate the main plate, the at least one through-hole being extended from one side surface of the main plate to the other side surface of the main plate; electrode units attached to respective sides of the main plate, each of the electrode units having at least one electrode corresponding to the at least one through-hole of the main plate, the electrode units sealing respective ends of the at least one through-hole of the main plate; a fluorescent material applied to an inner circumferential surface of the at least one through-hole of the main plate; and a light-emitting gas filled in an inner space defined by the at least one through-hole of the main plate and the electrode units, wherein each of the electrode units has at least one depression part in which the at least one electrode is disposed, a diameter of the at least one depression part being greater than a diameter of the at least one through-hole of the main plate. 2. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, wherein the main plate is made of glass through which visible light is transmitted. 3. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, wherein the main plate is made of acryl resin through which visible light is transmitted. 4. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, wherein the main plate is provided at an upper surface thereof with the optical light guide panel pattern. 5. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, wherein the main plate is provided at a lower surface thereof with the light reflective material for reflecting visible light. 6. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, wherein the main plate is constructed such that a thickness of a section of the main plate where the at least one through-hole is formed is less than that of a section of the main plate where the at least one through-hole is not formed. 7. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, wherein the at least one electrode of each of the electrode units is an internal-type electrode, which is at least partially disposed inside the at least one through-hole. 8. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, wherein the at least one electrode of each of the electrode units is an external-type electrode, which is disposed outside the at least one through-hole. 9. The lamp as set forth in claim 8, wherein a surface of the at least one electrode is formed in a shape of a wave, and a shape of a surface of each of the electrode units to which the at least one electrode is attached corresponds to that of the surface of the at least one electrode. 10. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, wherein the fluorescent material is selected from the group consisting of phosphate-based fluorescent material, silicate-based fluorescent material, tungstate-based fluorescent material, and sulfide-based fluorescent material. 11. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, wherein the light-emitting gas is selected from the group consisting of argon (Ar), neon (Ne), xenon (Xe), and mercury (Hg), or a combination thereof. 12. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, further comprising: a protective film disposed between the inner circumferential surface of the at least one through-hole and the fluorescent material. 13. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, wherein the flat fluorescent lamp comprises the optical light guide pattern integrally formed on the first surface of the main plate and the light reflective material integrally formed on the second surface of the main plate. 14. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, further comprising: a diffusion panel disposed on an upper surface of the main plate. 15. The lamp as set forth in claim 1, further comprising: a prism sheet disposed on an upper surface of the main plate. 