A system for counterbalancing the gravitation moment on a link when the link is supported at a point. A first spring mechanism balances the link about all axes that pass through the support point. The link can be balanced throughout a large range of motion.
Claims I claim: 1. A mechanism comprising: a movable carriage connected with a load; a mechanical transmission including: a first force transfer device connected to a spring; a second force transfer device connected to the movable carriage and operatively associated with the first force transfer device; wherein a ratio of the motion of the first force transfer device to the motion of the second force transfer device varies along a range of motion of the movable carriage; the movable carriage includes a carriage spring and a carriage force transfer device connected between the carriage spring and the load; a counterforce applied by the carriage spring to the load varies with a position of the movable carriage. 2. The mechanism of claim 1, wherein: the first force transfer device is a first cable and the second force transfer device is a second cable; and the second cable is operatively associated with the first cable by a pulley. 3. The mechanism of claim 2, wherein the pulley is a variable radius pulley. 4. The mechanism of claim 1, further comprising a brake to fix the movable carriage in position. 5. A load balancing system comprising: a first spring connected with a load so that a force is applied to the first spring by the load, the first spring having a movable anchor point; wherein a counterforce applied by the first spring to the load varies with a position of the movable anchor point; a mechanical transmission including: a first force transfer device connected to a second spring; a second force transfer device connected with the movable anchor point and operatively associated with the first force transfer device; wherein a ratio of the motion of the first force transfer device to the motion of the second force transfer device varies along a range of motion of the movable anchor point. 6. The mechanism of claim 5, wherein: the first spring is connected with the load by a tension member; the first force transfer device is a first cable and the second force transfer device is a second cable; and the second cable is operatively associated with the first cable by a pulley. 7. The mechanism of claim 6, wherein the pulley is a variable radius pulley. 8. The mechanism of claim 5, further comprising a brake to fix the movable anchor point in position. 