Systems and methods are presented that enable robot commands to be determined based on the pose of an object. A method is described for determining the orientation and pose of an object using indistinguishable points. The resolution of the pose detection is based on the robot'command vocabulary. A system is described for controlling a robot by pose detection using unlabelled points.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining one or more robot commands for controlling a robot the method comprising the steps of: receiving a set of indistinguishable points representing locations on an object having a pose, association of each indistinguishable point to the location on the object not predefined; separating the set of indistinguishable points into a plurality of subsets of indistinguishable points including a first subset of indistinguishable points representing locations on a first region of the object and a second subset of indistinguishable points representing locations on a second region of the object, wherein the number of subsets of indistinguishable points is based on the number of variables associated with the pose for a set of robot commands; determining, from said plurality of subsets of indistinguishable points, the pose of the object; and determining, based on the pose of the object, one or more robot commands from the set of robot commands. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of: determining the set of indistinguishable points from a plurality of markers. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein a marker comprises a visual feature of the object. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein a marker is attached to the object. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the marker is a fixed distance from a location on the object. 6. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the set of indistinguishable points from a plurality of markers comprises detecting a location of a marker using a camera. 7. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the set of indistinguishable points from a plurality of markers comprises detecting a location of a marker using an optical sensor. 8. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the set of indistinguishable points from a plurality of markers comprises detecting a location of a marker using an inertial detector. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of indistinguishable points includes at least three indistinguishable points. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of indistinguishable points is separated into a plurality of subsets of indistinguishable points using a point cluster method. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of indistinguishable points is separated into a plurality of subsets of indistinguishable points responsive to a distribution of the indistinguishable points. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a human body. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first region of the object comprises a first part of the human body and wherein the second region of the object comprises a second part of the human body. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the pose of the object comprises: determining an orientation of the first subset of indistinguishable points; and determining an orientation of the second subset of indistinguishable points. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the orientation of the first subset of indistinguishable points comprises fitting an orientable geometry to the first subset of indistinguishable points. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein said determining one or more robot commands is responsive to the orientation of the first subset of indistinguishable points and to the orientation of the second subset of indistinguishable points. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein said determining one or more robot commands is responsive to an angle between the orientation of the first subset of indistinguishable points and the orientation of the second subset of indistinguishable points. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more robot commands are used to control a robot. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the robot is a humanoid robot. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the robot is a virtual robot. 21. A system for determining one or more robot commands, the system comprising: a point separator, configured to receive a set of indistinguishable points, each indistinguishable point representing a location on an object, association of each indistinguishable point to the location on the object not predefined, said object having a pose and the point separator further configured to separate the set of indistinguishable points into a plurality of subsets of indistinguishable points including a first subset of indistinguishable points representing locations on a first region of the object and a second subset of indistinguishable points representing locations on a second region of the object, wherein the number of subsets of points is based on the number of variables associated with the pose for a set of robot commands; a pose determiner, configured to determine the pose of the object from said plurality of subsets of indistinguishable points; and a robot command determiner, configured to determine one or more robot commands from the set of robot commands based on the determined pose of the object. 22. The system of claim 21, further comprising: a marker detector, configured to detect locations of a plurality of markers and determine the set of indistinguishable points. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the marker detector comprises a camera. 24. The system of claim 22, wherein the marker detector comprises an optical sensor. 25. The system of claim 22, wherein the marker detector comprises an inertial detector. 26. The system of claim 21, wherein the set of indistinguishable points includes at least three indistinguishable points. 27. The system of claim 21, further comprising: a first orientation determiner, configured to determine an orientation of the first subset of indistinguishable points; and a second orientation determiner, configured to determine an orientation of the second subset of indistinguishable points. 28. The system of claim 27, wherein the first orientation determiner comprises a geometry fitter, configured to fit an orientable geometry to the first subset of indistinguishable points. 29. The system of claim 27, wherein the robot command determiner is further configured to determine one or more robot commands from the set of robot commands based on the orientation of the first subset of indistinguishable points and on the orientation of the second subset of indistinguishable points. 30. The system of claim 27, wherein the robot command determiner is further configured to determine one or more robot commands from the set of robot commands based on an angle between the orientation of the first subset of indistinguishable points and the orientation of the second subset of indistinguishable points. 31. A system for determining one or more robot commands responsive to a set of indistinguishable points, each indistinguishable point representing a location on an object, said object having a pose, the system comprising: means for receiving the set of indistinguishable points, association of each indistinguishable point to the location on the object not predefined; means for separating the set of indistinguishable points into a plurality of subsets of indistinguishable points including a first subset of indistinguishable points representing locations on a first region of the object and a second subset of indistinguishable points representing locations on a second region of the object, wherein the number of subsets of points is based on the number of variables associated with the pose for a set of robot commands; means for determining, from said plurality of subsets of indistinguishable points, the pose of the object; and means for determining, based on the determined pose of the object, one or more robot commands from the set of robot commands. 32. The system of claim 31, further comprising: means for determining the set of indistinguishable points from a plurality of markers. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the means for determining the set of indistinguishable points from a plurality of markers comprises means for detecting a location of a marker using a camera. 34. The system of claim 32, wherein the means for determining the set of indistinguishable points from a plurality of markers comprises means for detecting a location of a marker using an optical sensor. 35. The system of claim 32, wherein the means for determining the set of indistinguishable points from a plurality of markers comprises means for detecting a location of a marker using an inertial detector. 36. The system of claim 31, wherein the means for determining the pose of the object comprises: means for determining an orientation of the first subset of indistinguishable points; and means for determining an orientation of the second subset of indistinguishable points. 37. The system of claim 36, wherein the means for determining the orientation of the first subset of indistinguishable points comprises means for fitting an orientable geometry to the first subset of indistinguishable points. 38. The system of claim 36, wherein the means for determining one or more robot commands is responsive to the orientation of the first subset of indistinguishable points and to the orientation of the second subset of indistinguishable points. 39. The system of claim 36, wherein the means for determining one or more robot commands is responsive to an angle between the orientation of the first subset of indistinguishable points and the orientation of the second subset of indistinguishable points. 