An improved method of performing surgery on a joint in a patient's body, such as a knee, includes making an incision in a knee portion of one leg while a lower portion of the one leg is extending downward from an upper portion of the one leg and while a foot connected with the lower portion of the one leg is below a support surface on which the patient is disposed. The incision is relatively short, for example, between seven and thirteen centimeters. A patella may be offset from its normal position with an inner side of the patella facing inward during cutting of a bone with a cutting tool. During cutting of the bone, one or more guide members having opposite ends which are spaced apart by a distance less than the width of an implant may be utilized to guide movement of a cutting tool.
Claims Having described the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A prosthetic implant system for repairing a knee joint in a body of a patient, comprising: a first member including a first elongated articulating surface, the first member affixable to only one of a medial and lateral condyle of a femur portion of the knee joint, the first articulating surface operative as a weight bearing surface throughout the normal range of motion of the joint, for the only one condyle; a second member including a second articulating surface, the second member affixable to a trochlear section of the femur portion; and a third member including a third articulating surface, the third member affixable to an end portion of a tibia portion of the knee joint opposite the first member; wherein the other of the medial and lateral condyles is not provided with an affixed articulating surface operative as a weight bearing surface. 2. The prosthetic implant system of claim 1, wherein the first and the second members are separated by a bone portion of the femur portion when affixed to the femur portion. 3. The prosthetic implant system of claim 1, wherein the first and second members are modular members, such that the first and second members are connected to each other. 4. The prosthetic implant of claim 3, wherein the first and second members are connected prior to attachment to the femur portion. 5. The prosthetic implant of claim 3, wherein the first and second members are connected after attachment to the femur portion. 6. The prosthetic implant of claim 1, wherein the first member is affixable to the medial condyle of the femur portion. 7. The prosthetic implant of claim 1, wherein the first member is affixable to the lateral condyle of the femur portion. 8. The prosthetic implant system of claim 1, wherein the first and third articulating surfaces are each made of a metallic material. 9. The prosthetic implant system of claim 1, wherein said first member comprises at least two articulating surface portions, connectable in mutual contact within the body to form said first articulating surface. 10. A prosthetic implant system for repairing a knee joint in a body of a patient, comprising: a first member including a first articulating surface, the first member affixable to one of a medial and lateral condyle of a femur portion of the knee joint; a second member including a second articulating surface, the second member affixable to a trochlear section of the femur portion; and a third member including a third articulating surface, the third member affixable to an end portion of a tibia portion of the knee joint opposite the first member; wherein the first and third articulating surfaces are magnetically charged to repel each other to promote smooth gliding of the respective surfaces after surgery. 11. A prosthetic implant system for repairing a knee joint in a body of a patient, comprising: a first member including a first articulating surface, the first member affixable to one of a medial and lateral condyle of a femur portion of the knee joint; a second member including a second articulating surface, the second member affixable to a trochlear section of the femur portion; a third member including a third articulating surface, the third member affixable to an end portion of a tibia portion of the knee joint opposite the first member; and a plurality of strips, wherein one each of the strips is removably attachable to the first, second, and third articulating surfaces. 12. The prosthetic implant of claim 11, wherein the plurality of strips are magnetically charged. 13. A method of performing surgery on a leg of a patient, comprising: making an incision in a knee portion of the leg; preparing only a single condyle end section of a femur in the knee portion; preparing a trochlear section of the femur; moving a first elongated implant through the incision, the first implant having an articulating surface; connecting the first implant with the prepared condyle end section of the femur, the articulating surface of the first implant operative as a weight bearing surface throughout the normal range of motion of the joint, for the prepared condyle; moving a second implant through the incision; and connecting the second implant with the prepared trochlear section of the femur; wherein the first and second implants are implantable without a requirement for severing either cruciate ligament. 14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: preparing an end section of a tibia of the knee portion opposite the prepared condyle end section of the femur; moving a third implant through the incision; and connecting the third implant with the prepared end portion of the tibia, such that the third implant articulates with the first implant. 15. The method of claim 13, further comprising aligning the first and second implants for connection to the femur. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein computer navigation is used to align the first and second implants. 17. The method of claim 13, further comprising elevating a patella in the knee portion. 18. The method of claim 13, wherein the first implant includes a first articulating surface and the third implant includes a third articulating surface, such that the first articulating surface slidingly engages the third articulating surface. 19. The method of claim 13, further comprising connecting the first implant to the second implant. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the first implant is connected to the second implant after inserting the first and second implants through the incision. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the first implant is connected to the second implant prior to inserting the first and second implants through the incision. 22. The method of claim 13, wherein the first and second implants are separated by an unprepared end portion of the femur upon connecting the first implant to the prepared condyle end section of the femur and the second implant to the prepared trochlear section of the femur. 23. The method of claim 13, wherein preparing the condyle end section of the femur comprises preparing a medial condyle end section of the femur. 24. The method of claim 13, wherein preparing the condyle end section of the femur comprises preparing a lateral condyle end section of the femur. 25. The method of claim 13, wherein preparing the condyle end section of a femur in the knee portion includes resurfacing the condyle end section of the femur. 26. The method of claim 13, wherein preparing the trochlear section of the femur includes resurfacing the trochlear section. 27. The method of claim 13, further including the step of: preserving the quadriceps mechanism. 28. The method of claim 13, wherein: in said step of preparing only a single condyle, preparing includes the steps of determining a position of a cutting guide using references derived independently from an intramedullary device, and cutting bone of the condyle; and in said step of preparing a trochlear section, preparing includes the steps of determining a position of a cutting guide using references derived independently from an intramedullary device, and cutting bone of the trochlea. 29. The method of claim 13, wherein: in said step of preparing only a single condyle, preparing includes the step of determining a position of a cutting guide using references derived independently from an intramedullary device, and cutting bone of the condyle using a robot responsive to said determined position; and in said step of preparing a trochlear section, preparing includes the steps of determining a position of a cutting guide using references derived independently from an intramedullary device, and cutting bone of the trochlea using a robot responsive to said determined position. 30. The method of claim 13, further including the steps of: in said step of preparing only a single condyle, preparing includes the step of fabricating a customized cutting guide for the patient based on preoperative and clinical information, and cutting bone of the condyle using the customized guide. 31. The method of claim 13, further including the steps of: in said step of preparing a trochlear section, preparing includes the step of fabricating a customized cutting guide for the patient based on preoperative and clinical information, and cutting bone of the trochlea using the customized guide. 32. The method of claim 13, further including the steps of: in said step of preparing only a single condyle, preparing includes the step of avoiding substantially dislocating the knee joint; and in said step of preparing a trochlear section, preparing includes the step of avoiding substantially dislocating the knee joint. 33. The method of claim 13, further including the step of: inserting an endoscope through an incision proximate the knee, to visually inspect locations within the knee. 34. The method of claim 13, further including the step of: in said step of preparing only a single condyle, preparing includes the step of inserting a cannula into a space within the knee. 35. The method of claim 34, further including the step of: removing body tissue through the cannula. 36. The method of claim 34, further including the step of: inserting at least one knee joint replacement component through the cannula. 37. The method of claim 13, further including the steps of: preparing an end portion of the tibia; moving a third implant through the incision, the third implant including (a) a tray adapted to be connected to the prepared end portion of the tibia, and (b) a bearing insert having a first surface matable in sliding conformity with the tray, and a second surface adapted to articulate with the first implant; and connecting the tray to the prepared end portion of the tibia. 38. A method of performing surgery on a leg of a patient, comprising: making an incision in a knee portion of the leg; preparing a condyle end section of a femur in the knee portion; preparing a trochlear section of the femur; moving a first implant through the incision; connecting the first implant with the prepared condyle end section of the femur; moving a second implant through the incision; connecting the second implant with the prepared trochlear section of the femur; preparing an end section of a tibia of the knee portion opposite the prepared condyle end section of the femur; moving a third implant through the incision; and connecting the third implant with the prepared end portion of the tibia, such that the third implant articulates with the first implant; wherein the first and third articulating surfaces are magnetically charged to repel each other to promote smooth gliding of the respective surfaces after surgery. 39. A method of performing surgery on a leg of a patient, comprising: making a first incision in a knee portion of the leg; preparing only a single condyle end section of a femur in the knee portion; moving a first elongated implant through the first incision, the first implant having an articulating surface; connecting the first implant with the prepared condyle end section of the femur, the articulating surface of the first implant operative as a weight bearing surface, throughout the normal range of motion of the joint, for the prepared condyle; making a second incision in the knee portion of the, the second incision leg offset from the first incision; preparing a trochlear section of the femur; moving a second implant through the second incision; and connecting the second implant with the prepared trochlear section of the femur. 40. The method of claim 39, further comprising: preparing an end section of a tibia of the knee portion opposite the prepared condyle end section of the femur; moving a third implant through one of the first and second incisions; and connecting the third implant with the prepared end portion of the tibia, such that the third implant articulates with the first implant. 41. The method of claim 39, further comprising aligning the first and second implants for connection to the femur. 42. The method of claim 41, wherein computer navigation is used to align the first and second implants. 43. The method of claim 39, further comprising elevating a patella of the knee portion. 44. The method of claim 39, wherein the first implant includes a first articulating surface and the third implant includes a third articulating surface, such that the first articulating surface slidingly engages the third articulating surface. 45. The method of claim 39, further comprising connecting the first implant to the second implant. 46. The method of claim 45, wherein the first implant is connected to the second implant after inserting the first and second implants through the first and second incisions. 47. The method of claim 45, wherein the first implant is connected to the second implant prior to inserting the first and second implants through the first and second incisions. 48. The method of claim 39, wherein the first and second implants are separated by an unprepared end portion of the femur upon connecting the first implant to the prepared condyle end section of the femur and the second implant to the prepared trochlear section of the femur. 49. The method of claim 39, wherein preparing the condyle end section of the femur comprises preparing a medial condyle end section of the femur. 50. The method of claim 39, wherein preparing the condyle end section of the femur comprises preparing a lateral condyle end section of the femur. 51. The method of claim 39, wherein preparing the condyle end section of a femur in the knee portion includes resurfacing the condyle end section of the femur. 52. The method of claim 39, wherein preparing the trochlear section of the femur includes resurfacing the trochlear section. 53. A method of performing surgery on a leg of a patient, comprising: making a first incision in a knee portion of the leg; preparing a condyle end section of a femur in the knee portion; moving a first implant through the first incision; connecting the first implant with the prepared condyle end section of the femur; making a second incision in the knee portion of the second incision leg offset from the first incision; preparing a trochlear section of the femur; moving a second implant through the second incision; connecting the second implant with the prepared trochlear section of the femur; preparing an end section of a tibia of the knee portion opposite the prepared condyle end section of the femur; moving a third implant through one of the first and second incisions; and connecting the third implant with the prepared end portion of the tibia, such that the third implant articulates with the first implant; wherein the first and third articulating surfaces are magnetically charged to repel each other to promote smooth gliding of the respective surfaces after surgery. 54. A prosthetic implant system for repairing a knee joint in a body of a patient, comprising: a first member including a first articulating surface, the first member affixable to only one of a medial and lateral condyle of a femur portion of the knee joint, the first articulating surface operative as a weight bearing surface throughout the normal range of motion of the joint, for the only one condyle; a second member including a second articulating surface, the second member affixable to a trochlear section of the femur portion; and a third member including a third articulating surface, the third member affixable to an end portion of a tibia portion of the knee joint opposite the first member; wherein any of the first, second, and third members may be implanted irrespective of the implantation of any other of the first, second, and third members; and wherein the first, second, and third members are implantable without a requirement for severing either cruciate ligament; and wherein the other of the medial and lateral condyles is not provided with an affixed articulating surface operative as a weight bearing surface. 