Systems and methods for automatically determining a beam parameter at each of a plurality of treatment nodes are disclosed. The beam parameter may include a beam shape, beam size and/or beam orientation. Systems and methods for automatically selecting multiple collimators in a radiation treatment system are also disclosed.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method comprising: automatically determining a beam parameter at each of a plurality of treatment nodes, wherein the beam parameter is a geometric primitive for a beam shape; and automatically calculating a dose distribution based on the beam parameter at each of the plurality of treatment nodes. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the geometric primitive includes a circle. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the geometric primitive includes an ellipse. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the geometric primitive is a regular polygon. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the geometric primitive is an irregular polygon. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the beam shape is determined using a geometry of a target to be radiated. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a beam size. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the beam size is determined using a geometry of a target to be radiated. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the beam size is determined using a packing algorithm. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the beam parameter comprises a beam orientation. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the beam orientation is determined using a packing algorithm. 12. The method of claim 10, wherein the beam orientation is determined using a geometry of a target to be radiated. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically selecting one or more collimators based on the beam parameter. 14. A method of generating a treatment plan for a radiation delivery treatment system comprising: at a node position, stacking together radiation beams at different orientations to match a target silhouette; automatically determining a beam parameter at the node position; and generating the treatment plan based on at least the beam parameter. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the beam parameter comprises a beam shape. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the beam shape is a geometric primitive. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the geometric primitive includes a circle. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the geometric primitive includes an ellipse. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the geometric primitive is a regular polygon. 20. The method of claim 16, wherein the geometric primitive is an irregular polygon. 21. The method of claim 16, wherein the beam shape is determined using a geometry of a target to be radiated. 22. The method of claim 14, wherein the beam parameter comprises a beam size. 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the beam size is determined using a geometry of a target to be radiated. 24. The method of claim 22, wherein the beam size is determined using a packing algorithm. 25. The method of claim 14, wherein the beam parameter comprises a beam orientation. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the beam orientation is determined using a packing algorithm. 27. The method of claim 25, wherein the beam orientation is determined using a geometry of a target to be radiated. 28. The method of claim 14, further comprising automatically selecting one or more collimators based on the beam parameter. 29. A system comprising: means for automatically determining a beam parameter at each of a plurality of treatment nodes, wherein the beam parameter is a geometric primitive for a beam shape; and means for automatically calculating a dose distribution based on the beam parameter at each of the plurality of treatment nodes. 30. The system of claim 29, further comprising means for automatically determining a beam size. 31. A system for generating a treatment plan for a radiation delivery treatment system comprising: means for, at a node position, stacking together radiation beams at different orientations to match a target silhouette; means for automatically determining a beam parameter at the node position; and means for generating the treatment plan based on at least the beam parameter. 32. The system of claim 31, wherein the beam parameter is a beam size. 33. The system of claim 31, where the beam parameter is a beam shape. 34. An apparatus comprising: a radiation beam treatment system to deliver a radiation beam to a treatment site using a collimator; and a radiation treatment planning system operatively coupled to the radiation beam treatment system, the radiation treatment planning system to determine a beam parameter at each of a plurality of treatment nodes, wherein the beam parameter is a geometric primitive for a beam shape of the collimator, and automatically calculate a dose distribution based on the beam parameter at each of the plurality of treatment nodes. 35. An apparatus for generating a treatment plan for a radiation delivery treatment system comprising: a radiation beam treatment system to deliver a radiation beam to a treatment site; and a radiation treatment planning system operatively coupled to the radiation beam treatment system, the radiation treatment planning system to, at a node position, stack together radiation beams at different orientations to match a target silhouette, automatically determine a beam parameter at the node position, and generate the treatment plan based on at least the beam parameter. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, wherein the beam parameter is a beam size. 37. The apparatus of claim 35, where the beam parameter is a beam shape. 