Disclosed herein are methods and compositions for producing articular repair materials and for repairing an articular surface. In particular, methods for providing articular repair systems. Also provided are articular surface repair systems designed to replace a selected area cartilage, for example, and surgical tools for repairing articular surfaces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of fitting an articular implant to a knee joint of a patient, the method comprising: deriving a model from anatomical image data including articular anatomy of the patient's knee joint; selecting an articular implant from a catalog of existing articular implants having a range of sizes, wherein the articular implant includes a planar surface for abutting a resected bone surface; adapting the shape of the selected articular implant to fit the articular implant to the articular anatomy of the patient's knee joint; and designing a surgical cutting or drilling tool having a surface that substantially conforms to a surface of the knee joint and having one or more guides defining a cutting or drilling path with a predetermined position relative to the surface of the knee joint, wherein the tool facilitates the placement of the implant in a preferred position. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising superimposing the anatomical image data and one or more images or projections of the articular implant to determine the fit of the articular implant in the knee joint. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the anatomical image data of the knee joint and one or more images of the articular implant are merged into a common coordinate system. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the anatomical image data and one or more images or projections of the articular implant are three-dimensional. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the images comprise three-dimensional representations of at least one articular structure and at least one articular implant. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the three-dimensional representations are generated using a parametric surface representation. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the anatomical image data comprises one or more cross-sectional 2-D images. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the 2-D cross-sectional images are reconstructed in multiple planes. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the selection step is performed by computer. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the selection step is performed by manual visual inspection. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the anatomical image data of the joint is obtained using a C-arm system. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the anatomical image data of the joint is obtained using radiographic contrast. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected articular implant includes a surface that replaces at least a portion of the patient's natural articular cartilage. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected articular implant includes a first surface portion that replaces at least a portion of the patient's natural subchondral bone surface. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the selected articular implant includes a second surface portion that replaces at least a portion of the patient's natural articular cartilage. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of further shaping the implant comprises altering at least a portion of the size of the implant. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of further shaping the implant comprises altering at least a portion of the thickness of the implant. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of shaping the implant is performed utilizing Computer Aided Design or Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAD/CAM) techniques. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the anatomical image data and one or more images or projections of the articular implant are two-dimensional. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of further shaping the articular implant comprises subtracting material from the selected articular implant. 21. The method of claim 20, wherein the step of subtracting material from the selected articular implant comprises mechanically removing material from the selected articular implant. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of selecting an articular implant comprising selecting an implant having the closest shape and size to the articular anatomy of the patient's joint. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the articular anatomy includes a portion of a shape of a femoral condyle of the patient's knee joint. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the model is a three-dimensional representation. 25. The method of claim 1, further comprising aligning the selected implant relative to the model to determine the preferred position of the implant in the joint. 26. The method of claim 1, further comprising aligning the selected implant relative to a mechanical axis of the patient's knee joint. 27. The method of claim 1, further comprising aligning the selected implant relative to an anatomical axis of the patient's knee joint. 28. The method of claim 1, further comprising aligning the selected implant relative to an articular surface of the patient's knee joint. 29. A method for optimizing the fit of an implant for a knee joint of a patient, the method comprising: obtaining anatomical image data including articular anatomy of the patient's knee joint; deriving a model of at least a portion of the knee joint from the anatomical image data including articular anatomy of the patient's knee joint; selecting a implant of appropriate shape or size from a database of articular implants having a range of sizes, wherein the implant includes a planar surface for abutting a resected bone surface; adapting the size or shape of the selected implant by manipulating the size or shape of the implant to fit the implant to the articular anatomy of the patient's knee joint; and designing a surgical cutting or drilling tool having a surface that substantially conforms to a surface of the knee joint and having guides defining a cutting or drilling path with a predetermined position relative to the surface of the knee joint to facilitate the placement of the implant in a preferred position. 30. The method of claim 29, further comprising the step of superimposing an image of the implant on the anatomical image data of the patient's knee joint. 31. The method of claim 29, wherein the step of manipulating the size or shape of the implant is performed utilizing Computer Aided Design or Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAD/CAM) techniques. 32. The method of claim 29, further comprising utilizing the anatomical image data to manufacture a surgical tool for preparing the joint to receive the further shaped implant. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein the surgical tool is an alignment guide. 34. The method of claim 29, further comprising the step of modifying a surface of the implant to achieve a near anatomic fit with a subchondral bone of the joint. 35. The method of claim 26, further comprising the step of implanting the implant into the patient's joint. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the implanting step comprises utilizing bone cement during implantation of the implant into the patient's joint. 37. The method of claim 35, wherein the implanting step comprises utilizing a liquid attachment material during implantation of the implant into the patient's joint. 38. The method of claim 26, wherein at least a portion of a surface of the implant comprises a bone ingrowth surface. 39. The method of claim 26, wherein the implant comprises a synthetic material. 40. The method of claim 26, wherein the selecting and manipulating steps are performed automatically. 41. The method of claim 26, wherein at least one of the obtaining, selecting or manipulating steps requires human intervention. 42. The method of claim 26, further comprising performing one or more measurements or deriving representations of external articular geometry or dimensions upon which the selection of the implant is based. 43. The method of claim 32, wherein at least a portion of the surgical tool comprises a surface that is formed to match a natural or surgically resected surface of the joint. 44. The method of claim 32, wherein the surgical tool comprises at least one guide for aligning surgical tools used to prepare the joint for receiving the further shaped implant. 45. The method of claim 29, further comprising the step of modifying a surface of the implant to achieve a near anatomic fit with a cartilage surface of the joint. 46. The method of claim 29, wherein the articular anatomy includes a portion of a shape of a femoral condyle of the patient's knee joint. 47. The method of claim 29, wherein the model is a three-dimensional representation. 48. The method of claim 29, further comprising aligning the selected implant relative to the model to determine the preferred position of the implant in the joint. 49. The method of claim 29, further comprising aligning the selected implant relative to a mechanical axis of the patient's knee joint. 50. The method of claim 29, further comprising aligning the selected implant relative to an anatomical axis of the patient's knee joint. 51. The method of claim 29, further comprising aligning the selected implant relative to an articular surface of the patient's knee joint. 