A pharmaceutical system and method of operation in which a single remote professional provides pharmaceutical care and oversight of multiple local pharmacies. A control location is connected through an electronic network to one or more individual pharmacies, each of which may be located at a different physical site. Each individual pharmacy includes one or more drug preparation areas, and one or more self-service or staffed customer terminals. A drug preparation area includes a robot, which is adapted to prepare prescriptions or other items, and which is connected by a pneumatic delivery system to one or more customer terminals within the pharmacy.
Claims I claim: 1. Apparatus comprising: at least one prescription input device adapted to receive prescription data corresponding to a prescription presented at a location; at least one robotic item handling device adapted to handle medical items; at least one pharmacy computer in operative connection with the at least one prescription input device and the at least one robotic item handling device, wherein the at least one pharmacy computer is operative to communicate the prescription data to a pharmacist terminal remote from the location and adapted to be operated by a pharmacist, and is operative to operate the at least one robotic item handling device to prepare a medical item corresponding to the prescription data responsive to communication with the pharmacist terminal. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 which further includes at least one robot observation camera operative to observe the at least one robotic item handling device, wherein the at least one robot observation camera is in operative connection with the at least one pharmacy computer, wherein the at least one pharmacy computer is operative to cause signals from the at least one robot observation camera to be sent to the pharmacist terminal. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the at least one pharmacy computer is operative to control the at least one robot observation camera responsive to communication with the pharmacist terminal. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3 which further includes at least one customer communication device in operative connection with the at least one pharmacy computer, wherein the at least one customer communication device enables pharmacist terminal communication with a customer presenting the prescription at the location. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the at least one customer communication device comprises an audio communication device. 6. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the at least one customer communication device comprises an audio visual communication device. 7. The apparatus according to claim 4 which further includes at least one pneumatic tube transport. 8. The apparatus according to claim 7 which further includes at least one customer terminal, and wherein the at least one pneumatic tube transport extends between the at least one robotic item handling device and the at least one customer terminal, and wherein the medical item is passed through the at least one pneumatic tube transport. 9. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the at least one customer terminal comprises a drive-thru terminal. 10. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the at least one customer terminal comprises an indoor customer service station. 11. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the at least one customer terminal comprises a self-service terminal. 12. The apparatus according to claim 7 which further includes a customer service area, and wherein the at least one pneumatic tube transport extends between the at least one robotic item handling device and the customer service area. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12 which further includes a drug compounding vault and a drug retrieval vault, and wherein the at least one robotic item handling device operates in at least one of the drug compounding vault and the drug retrieval vault. 14. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein at least one pneumatic tube transport extends between the drug compounding vault and the drug retrieval vault. 15. The apparatus according to claim 14 wherein a first robotic item handling device operates in the drug retrieval vault and a second robotic item handling device operates in the drug compounding vault. 16. The apparatus according to claim 13 wherein at least one of the drug compounding vault and the drug retrieval vault includes therein a medical item measuring device, wherein the at least one robotic item handling device operates the medical item measuring device. 17. The apparatus according to claim 16 wherein the medical item measuring device includes a medical item counting device. 18. The apparatus according to claim 13 which further includes at least one label printer, wherein the at least one label printer is operative responsive to communication of the at least one pharmacy computer with the pharmacist terminal to print a label corresponding to the medical item. 19. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the at least one robotic item handling device is operative responsive to the at least one pharmacy computer to apply the label in connection with the medical item. 20. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the at least one robotic item handling device is operative responsive to communication between the at least one pharmacy computer and the pharmacist terminal to make the label observable by the at least one robotic observation camera. 21. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the at least one prescription input device comprises an image scanner. 22. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the at least one prescription input device comprises a reader adapted to read machine readable indicia. 23. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the at least one prescription input device comprises an audio input device. 24. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the at least one prescription input device comprises a prescriber computer. 25. The apparatus according to claim 18 which further comprises a customer terminal, and wherein the at least one prescription input device comprises a keypad on the customer terminal. 26. The apparatus according to claim 18 wherein the at least one customer communication device comprises a screen, and wherein responsive to communication between the at least one pharmacy computer and the pharmacist terminal, the screen is caused to output information related to use of the medical item. 27. The apparatus according to claim 4 which further includes at least one label printer, wherein the at least one label printer is operative responsive to communication between the at least one pharmacy computer and the pharmacist terminal to print a label corresponding to the medical item. 28. The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein the at least one robotic handling device is operative responsive to the at least one pharmacy computer to apply the label in connection with the medical item. 29. The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein the at least one robotic item handling device is operative responsive to communication between the at least one pharmacy computer and the pharmacist terminal to make the label observable by the at least one robotic observation camera. 30. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the at least one customer communication device comprises a screen, and wherein responsive to communication of the at least one pharmacy computer with the pharmacist terminal, the screen is caused to output information related to use of the medical item. 31. The apparatus according to claim 30 and further comprising: at least one remote computer remotely located from the location, wherein the at least one pharmacy computer is operative to communicate with the pharmacist terminal through the at least one remote computer. 32. The apparatus according to claim 31 and further comprising: at least one network, wherein the at least one remote computer communicates with the at least one pharmacy computer through the at least one network. 33. The apparatus according to claim 30 and further comprising: at least one remote database remotely located from the location, wherein the at least one remote database is in operative connection with the pharmacist terminal. 34. The apparatus according to claim 33 wherein the at least one remote database comprises a database including medical history data. 35. The apparatus according to claim 34 wherein the prescription data includes a patient name, and wherein the medical history data and the remote database includes medical history data corresponding to the patient name. 36. The apparatus according to claim 1 which further includes a drug compounding vault and a drug retrieval vault, and wherein the at least one robotic item handling device operates in at least one of the drug compounding vault and the drug retrieval vault. 37. The apparatus according to claim 36 wherein a first robotic item handling device operates in the drug retrieval vault and a second robotic item handling device operates in the drug compounding vault. 38. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one prescription input device comprises an image scanner. 39. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one prescription input device comprises a reader adapted to read machine readable indicia. 40. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one prescription input device comprises an audio input device. 41. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the at least one prescription input device comprises a prescriber computer. 42. The apparatus according to claim 1 which further comprises a customer terminal, and wherein the at least one prescription input device comprises a keypad on the customer terminal. 43. The apparatus according to claim 1 and further comprising: at least one network; wherein the at least one pharmacy computer is operative to communicate with the pharmacist terminal through the at least one network. 44. The apparatus according to claim 43 and further comprising: at least one remote database remotely located from the location, wherein the at least one remote database is in operative connection with the pharmacist terminal through the at least one network. 45. The apparatus according to claim 44 wherein the at least one remote database comprises a database including medical history data. 46. The apparatus according to claim 45 wherein the prescription data includes a patient name, and wherein the medical history data in the at least one remote database includes medical history data for the patient. 47. The apparatus according to claim 46 wherein the at least one remote database comprises a prescription information database, wherein the prescription information database is electronically accessible from the pharmacist terminal. 48. The apparatus according to claim 46 wherein the at least one remote database comprises insurance information, and wherein the insurance information includes data corresponding to the patient. 