A method and apparatus for identifying sections of an existing schematic that are consistent with best design practices, the method comprising the steps of providing a template set, each template specifying a sub-set of components and relationships that are consistent with best design practices and examining the existing schematic to identify sections of the existing schematic that are inconsistent with the best design practices specified in the template set.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying sections of an existing schematic that are consistent with design practices, the method comprising the steps of: providing a template set, each template specifying a sub-set of components and relationships that are consistent with design practices; and using a processor for examining the existing schematic to identify sections of the existing schematic that are inconsistent with the design practices specified in the template set; wherein the section that is inconsistent with the design practices is an inconsistent section, the method further including the step of, when a section of the existing schematic is inconsistent with the design practices specified in the template set, performing a function on the existing schematic; and wherein the function includes visually displaying the inconsistent section in a distinguishing manner. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the existing schematic is an electrical schematic and wherein the step of providing a template set includes providing templates that specify both electrical icons corresponding to electrical components and relationships between the electrical icons. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the design practices are best design practices. 4. A method for identifying sections of an existing schematic that are consistent with design practices, the method comprising the steps of: providing a template set, each template specifying a sub-set of components and relationships that are consistent with design practices; and using a processor for examining the existing schematic to identify sections of the existing schematic that are inconsistent with the design practices specified in the template set; wherein the section that is inconsistent with the design practices is an inconsistent section, the method further including the step of, when a section of the existing schematic is inconsistent with the design practices specified in the template set, performing a function on the existing schematic; and wherein the function includes automatically identifying a template that indicates a possible replacement for the inconsistent section and automatically providing at least a section of the identified template. 5. An apparatus for identifying sections of an existing schematic that are consistent with design practices, the apparatus comprising: a database storing a template set, each template specifying a sub-set of components and relationships that are consistent with design practices; and a processor linked to the database and receiving the existing schematic, the processor programmed to examine the existing schematic to identify sections of the existing schematic that are inconsistent with the design practices specified in the template set; wherein the section that is inconsistent with the design practices is an inconsistent section, the processor further programmed to, when a section of the existing schematic is inconsistent with the design practices specified in the template set, perform a function on the existing schematic; and further including an interface, wherein the function performed by the processor when a section of the existing schematic is inconsistent with the design practices includes visually displaying the inconsistent section in a distinguishing manner via the interface. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the existing schematic is an electrical schematic and wherein the template set stored in the database includes templates that specify both electrical icons corresponding to electrical components and relationships between the electrical icons. 7. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the design practices are best design practices. 8. An apparatus for identifying sections of an existing schematic that are consistent with design practices, the apparatus comprising: a database storing a template set, each template specifying a sub-set of components and relationships that are consistent with design practices; and a processor linked to the database and receiving the existing schematic, the processor programmed to examine the existing schematic to identify sections of the existing schematic that are inconsistent with the design practices specified in the template set; wherein the section that is inconsistent with the design practices is an inconsistent section, the processor further programmed to, when a section of the existing schematic is inconsistent with the design practices specified in the template set, perform a function on the existing schematic; and further including an interface, wherein the function performed by the processor when a section of the existing schematic is inconsistent with the design practices includes automatically identifying a template that indicates a possible replacement for the inconsistent section and automatically providing at least a section of the identified template via the interface. 9. A method for identifying sections of an existing schematic that are consistent with design practices, the method comprising the steps of: providing a template set, each template specifying a sub-set of components and relationships that are consistent with design practices; and using a processor for examining the existing schematic to identify sections of the existing schematic that are inconsistent with the design practices specified in the template set; wherein a section that is inconsistent with the design practices is an inconsistent section, the method further including the step of, when a section of the existing schematic is inconsistent with the design practices specified in the template set, visually displaying the inconsistent section in a distinguishing manner; wherein, when a section of the existing schematic is inconsistent with the design practices specified in the template set, automatically identifying a template that indicates a possible replacement for the inconsistent section and automatically providing at least a section of the identified template. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the existing schematic is an electrical schematic and wherein the step of providing a template set includes providing templates that specify both electrical icons corresponding to electrical components and relationships between the electrical icons. 11. The method of claim 9 wherein the existing schematic is an electrical schematic and wherein the step of providing a template set includes providing templates that specify both electrical icons corresponding to electrical components and relationships between the electrical icons. 12. The method of claim 9 wherein the design practices are best design practices. 