Disclosed are methods and apparatuses for transferring storage media between storage units comprising an expandable multi-unit storage system. The expandable storage apparatus comprises a first and second storage unit comprising media support locations. The support locations are capable of supporting at least one storage media element. At least one storage device is adapted to store and retrieve data to and from the storage media element associated with at least one of the storage units. At least one robotic system is associated with each of the storage units. A media pass-through transfer device is substantially disposed in the first storage unit and is adapted to transfer the storage element between the first and second storage units wherein the media pass-through transfer device is capable of temporarily extending into the second storage unit. The robotic system is capable of transferring the storage media element between at least the support locations, the storage device and the media pass-through transfer device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An expandable storage apparatus comprising: a first storage unit and a second storage unit, each of said storage units comprising media support locations, and each of said support locations capable of supporting at least one storage media element; at least one storage device adapted to store and retrieve data to and from at least one of said storage media elements associated with at least one of said storage units; a first media pass-through transfer device in a mounting relationship with said first storage unit but not permanently mounted with said second unit such that said media pass-through transfer device is substantially disposed in said first storage unit and adapted to transfer said storage media element between said first storage unit and second storage unit wherein said first media pass-through transfer device is capable of temporarily extending into said second storage unit; at least one robotic system, separate from said first media pass-through transfer device, associated with each of said storage units, said robotic system capable of transferring said storage media elements between at least said support locations, said storage device and said first media pass-through transfer device. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a first surface comprising a first opening associated with said first storage unit; a second surface comprising a second opening associated with said second storage unit; a pathway between said first and second storage units established when said first and second surfaces are in proximity and said first and second openings are substantially aligned wherein said pathway is adapted to accommodate said transfer of said storage media element between said first and second storage units. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein at least one of said first and second surfaces comprises a knock-out panel capable of being removed to expose at least one of said first and second openings. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first media pass-through transfer device transfers said storage media element between said first and second storage units in a non-linear motion. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said first media pass-through transfer device is operable to pivot said media between said first and second storage units. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first media pass-through transfer device is a telescoping device. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first and second storage units are capable of cooperating in a stacked arrangement. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: a third storage unit configured substantially like said first and second storage units; a second media pass-through transfer device disposed in either said second or said third storage units and adapted to transfer said storage element between said second and said third storage units wherein said second media pass-through transfer device is capable of temporarily extending into either said second or said third storage unit. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said storage units are arranged in a stacked configuration in an order from said first to said second to said third storage units and wherein a first pathway is established between said first and second storage units and a second pathway is established between said second and third storage units wherein said pathway is adapted to accommodate said transfer of said storage media element between said first and second storage units and said second and third units. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first media pass-through transfer device is modular. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said storage media element is from the group consisting of: a tape cassette, a tape cassette magazine, a random access medium, and a random access device. 12. A method for extending storage capacity of a storage apparatus comprising: positioning a first and a second storage unit to cooperate with one another, said first and said second storage units each possessing at least one robot that transfers storage media elements within said respective storage units, wherein said first storage unit comprises a media pass-through transfer device, separate from said robots, capable of holding a storage media element, said media pass-through transport device in a mounting relationship with said first storage unit but not permanently mounted with said second unit such that said media pass-through transport device is capable of being substantially housed within said first storage unit; extending said media pass-through transfer device at least partially into said second storage unit; and transferring said storage media element between said first and second storage units with said media pass-through transfer device. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising moving said storage media element from said media pass-through transfer device to at least one support location located within each of said units and at least one storage device adapted to transfer data to and from said storage media element. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein said positioning step is accomplished by stacking said first and second storage units. 15. The method of claim 12 further comprising disposing said media pass-through transfer device substantially in said first storage unit and extending said media pass-through transfer device temporarily in said second storage unit. 16. The method of claim 12 further comprising passing said media element through an opening between said first and second units via said media pass-through transfer device. 17. A media transfer system comprising: a media pass-through transfer device adapted to be predominantly mounted in a first storage unit; said media pass-through transfer device adapted to receive a media element from a first robotic system cooperating with said first storage unit, said first robotic system is separate from said media pass-through transfer device; said media pass-through transfer device capable of extending temporarily into a second storage unit wherein said media pass-through transfer device is not permanently in said second storage unit; said media pass-through transfer device capable of transferring said media element to said second storage unit; and said media pass-through transfer device adapted to transfer said media element to a second robotic system associated with said second storage unit, said second robotic system is separate and not directly attached to said media pass-through transfer device. 18. The media transfer system of claim 17 media pass-through transfer device is operable to pivot said media between said first and second storage units. 19. The media transfer system of claim 17 wherein said media pass-through transfer device is a telescoping device. 20. The media transfer system of claim 17 wherein said media pass-through transfer device is adapted to extend through an accommodating pathway established between said first and said second storage units when positioned in proximity. 21. An expandable media library comprising: a first library unit including at least one of a media support location, a storage device, and a robot for transferring said storage device to and from said media support location; a second library unit disposed adjacent to the first library and including at least one of a media support location, a storage device, and a robot for transferring said storage device to and from said media support location; a media pass-through transfer device that is a separate device from said at least one robot, said media pass-through transfer device in a mounted relationship with said first library unit but not in a permanent mounting relationship with said second library unit such that said media pass-through transfer device is housed substantially within the first library, wherein the media pass-through transfer device is movable from a first position substantially within the first library to a second position substantially within the second library. 22. A method for increasing available storage in a library unit storage system, comprising the steps of: providing an additional library unit; positioning the additional library unit adjacent to the storage system; and aligning the additional library unit with the storage system so that a storage media element is capable of being passed between the storage system and the additional library unit using a means for passing media; and mounting said means for passing media to either said storage system or said additional library unit wherein said means for passing media is substantially within either said storage system or said additional library unit, respectively. 