A system for non-contact cleaning of particulate contamination of surfaces includes one or more sources that create a charge imbalance between a surface and particles that contaminate the surface, and a power supply that creates a pulsed electrical bias on the surface. This imbalance produces an electrostatic force that propels the particles off the surface. The cleaning process can be associated, for example, with microelectronic lithography and manufacturing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for removing contaminant particles from a surface, the method comprising: providing a chamber including: a plasma source electrically connected to a first power supply; and a sample electrically connected to a second power supply, the sample having a surface including contaminant particles to be removed; flowing inert gas into the chamber and across the surface of the sample; applying power to the plasma source using the first power supply so as to generate a plasma sheath in contact with the surface of the sample; applying an electrical bias to the sample using the second power supply while the surface of the sample is in contact with the plasma sheath; pulsing at least one of the plasma source and the electrical bias; creating a charge imbalance between the contaminant particles and the surface; and exposing the surface of the sample to the plasma sheath for a time duration sufficient to remove a substantial fraction of the contaminant particles therefrom without substantially removing sample surface material. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein one of the plasma source and the electrical bias is pulsed. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the plasma source is pulsed. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the electrical bias is pulsed. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the pulsing comprises turning off the power produced by one of the first and second power supplies and reapplying the power produced by one of the first and second power supplies. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the pulsing is carried out at a frequency of from a few hundred to about 200 kHz. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the pulsing comprises a pulse length of from microseconds to milliseconds. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the pulsing comprises a square wave pulse. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the pulsing comprises a 50% duty cycle pulse. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein 2 kW of power are applied to the plasma source to generate the plasma. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrical bias is a positive bias. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrical bias is a negative bias. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrical bias is applied at a 10 mA current. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein at least about 80% of the contaminant particles are removed from the surface. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface of the sample is exposed to the plasma sheath for a time duration of 10 minutes. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the inert gas is He. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the surface is a surface employed in a lithography process. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the surface is that of a semiconductor wafer. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the surface is that of a mask. 