A system and method for classifying follicular units based on the number of hairs in a follicular unit of interest comprises acquiring an image of a body surface having a follicular unit of interest, processing the image to calculate a contour of the follicular unit and an outline profile which disregards concavities in the contour, and determining the number of defects in the outline profile to determine the number of hairs in the follicular unit. The system and method may also adjust for hairs which converge beneath the skin and for images which appear as a single wide hair but which are actually multiple hairs. In another aspect, a system and method for determining the end points of a follicular unit comprises generating a skeleton of a segmented image and identifying the end points from the skeletonized image.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of classifying and determining at least one end point of a follicular unit (FU), comprising: using a processor, processing an image of a body surface containing an FU to produce a segmented image of the FU, the image of the body surface obtained from an image acquisition device; calculating a contour of the segmented image of the FU; calculating an outline profile of the segmented image which disregards concavities in the contour of the segmented image of the FU; determining a number of defects in the outline profile; classifying the FU at least partially based on the number of determined defects; generating a skeleton of the segmented image of the FU; and determining from the skeleton at least one end point of the FU. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said at least one end point is selected from the group comprising: a head of a hair of the FU; a tail of a hair of the FU; and a bulb of the FU. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining an angle and/or orientation of the FU under the body surface based on the determined the at least one end point of the FU. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the skeleton is accomplished using a thinning technique. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the skeleton is accomplished using edge detection based techniques. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the skeleton is accomplished using Hilditch's algorithm. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising acquiring the image of a body surface containing an FU. 8. A method of determining at least one of a head or a tail of a follicular unit (FU), comprising: processing an image of a body surface containing a FU to produce a segmented image of the FU, the image obtained from an image acquisition device; using a processor, determining a contour of the segmented image of the FU; generating a skeleton of the segmented image of the FU based on the segmented image of the FU and on the contour of the segmented image of the FU; and determining from the skeleton at least one of a head or a tail of the FU. 9. A system for classifying and determining at least one end point of a follicular unit (FU), comprising: an image acquisition device; and an image processor comprising one or more modules for executing operations on an image, the one or more modules including instructions for: processing an image obtained by the image acquisition device to produce a segmented image of the FU, calculating a contour of the segmented image of the FU; calculating an outline profile of the segmented image which disregards concavities in the contour of the segmented image of the FU; determining a number of defects in the outline profile; classifying the FU at least partially based on the number of determined defects; generating a skeleton of the segmented image of the FU, and determining from the skeleton at least one end point of the FU. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the image acquisition device comprises at least one camera. 11. The system of claim 9, wherein the image acquisition device is a stereo imaging device. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the image processor is a personal computer. 13. The system of claim 9, wherein the system is a robotic system. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising a robotic arm on which said image acquisition device is mounted. 15. The system of claim 14, further comprising a controller operatively coupled to the robotic arm and said image processor. 16. The system of claim 9, wherein the image acquisition device acquires digital images. 17. The system of claim 9, wherein generating the skeleton is accomplished using one or more of a thinning technique, edge detection based techniques and Hilditch's algorithm. 18. A system for classifying a follicular unit (FU), comprising: an interface adapted to receive an image data containing a FU; and an image processor comprising one or more modules for executing operations on the image data, the one or more modules including instructions for: processing the image data to produce a segmented image of the FU; calculating a contour of the segmented image of the FU; calculating an outline profile of the segmented image which disregards concavities in the contour of the segmented image of the FU; determining a number of defects in the outline profile; and classifying the FU at least partially based on the number of determined defects. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the system further comprises an image processor programmed for generating a skeleton of the segmented image of the FU, and determining from the skeleton at least one end point of the FU. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein the image processor for classifying the FU and the image processor for determining the at least one end point of the FU are one combined image processing device. 21. The system of claim 19, further comprising one or more image acquisition devices and wherein the one or more image acquisition devices take multiple images of the FU to refine determination of the at least one end point of the FU. 