A robotic joint configured as a 3-axis joint. The joint includes an input roll assembly and a pitch-output roll assembly. The pitch-output roll assembly includes: a housing; a differential mechanism including left and right input gears, an output gear, a cross element interconnecting the gears, and a clevis supporting the gears and the cross element; a left four-bar linkage coupled to the left input gear; a right four-bar linkage coupled to the right input gear; and first and second linear actuators connected to the left and right four-bar linkages. The first and second linear actuators selectively drive the left and right input gears to rotate the output gear about an output roll axis and to rotate the cross element about a pitch axis passing through the cross element and input gears. A linear actuator in the input roll assembly rotates the pitch-output roll housing about an input roll axis.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotic joint, comprising: a pitch-output roll assembly including: a housing, a differential mechanism, supported by the housing, including a left input gear, a right input gear, an output gear, a cross element interconnecting the gears, and a clevis supporting the gears and the cross element within the housing, a left four-bar linkage coupled to the left input gear, a right four-bar linkage coupled to the right input gear, and first and second linear actuators connected to the left and right four-bar linkages, respectively, selectively driving the left and right input gears to rotate the output gear about an output roll axis and to rotate the cross element about a pitch axis passing through the cross element and the input gears. 2. The robotic joint of claim 1, further comprising an input roll assembly with an actuator mechanism, wherein the actuator mechanism of the input roll assembly operates to rotate the housing of the pitch-output roll assembly about an input roll axis extending through the differential mechanism. 3. The robotic joint of claim 1, wherein the first linear actuator comprises an electric linear actuator with an actuator arm connected to an input link of the left four-bar linkage and wherein the second linear actuator comprises an electric linear actuator with an actuator arm connected to an input link of the right four-bar linkage. 4. The robotic joint of claim 3, wherein the left and right four-bar linkages each comprise an output link coupled to the input link via a connecting link and wherein the output links each pivot at an end distal to the connecting link, the pitch axis passing through the pivot end of the output links. 5. The robotic joint of claim 1, wherein first and second linear actuators are independently and concurrently operable such that the rotation of the output gear about the output roll axis and the rotation of the cross element about the pitch axis are concurrent or sequential. 6. The robotic joint of claim 5, where the range of rotation of the output gear about the output roll axis is in the range of about 155 to about 180 degrees and the range of motion of the cross element about the pitch axis is in the range of about 60 to about 90 degrees. 7. The robotic joint of claim 1, wherein the input roll axis, the pitch axis, and the output roll axis intersect within the differential mechanism. 8. The robotic joint of claim 7, wherein actuator mechanism of the input roll assembly comprises an electric linear actuator and the input roll assembly further comprises an input roll axle supporting the housing of the pitch-output roll assembly and a four-bar linkage with an output link connected to the housing of the pitch-output roll assembly and an input link driven by the electric linear actuator to selectively rotate the housing about input roll axle, the input roll axis extending through the input roll axle. 9. A robotic joint for use as a shoulder or other joint, comprising: first, second, and third rotary outputs arranged in an input roll-pitch-output roll configuration with substantially intersecting input roll, pitch, and output roll axes; and first, second, and third linear actuators operating the rotary outputs, wherein the first rotary output comprises a housing pivotally mounted to rotate about the input roll axis and a four-bar linkage with an output link connected to the housing and wherein the first linear actuator comprises an electric linear actuator selectively operable to drive the four-bar linkage to provide input roll in the robotic joint. 10. The robotic joint of claim 9, wherein the robotic joint has a pitch angle of at least about 60 degrees and a roll angle of at least about 120 degrees. 11. A robotic joint for use as a shoulder or other joint, comprising: first, second, and third rotary outputs arranged in an input roll-pitch-output roll configuration with substantially intersecting input roll, pitch, and output roll axes; and first, second, and third linear actuators operating the rotary outputs, wherein the second and third rotary outputs comprise a differential mechanism including a left side gear, a right side gear, an output gear, a cross element interconnecting the gears, and a output pitch-roll structure supporting the gears and the cross element within the housing and wherein the second and third linear actuators operate to selectively rotate the left and right side gears, respectively, to cause the output gear to rotate about the output roll axis and the cross element and the interconnected output pitch-roll structure to rotate about the pitch axis. 12. The robotic joint of claim 11, wherein the second linear actuator drives the left side gear using a four-bar linkage coupled with the left side gear and the third linear actuator drives the right side gear using a four-bar linkage coupled with the right side gear. 13. The robotic joint of claim 11, wherein the gears of the differential mechanism are selected from the group of gears consisting of bevel gears, spiral bevel gears, hypoid gears, miter gears, zerol gears, cable differentials, and friction cones. 14. A robotic joint for use as a shoulder or other joint, comprising: first, second, and third rotary outputs arranged in an input roll-pitch-output roll configuration with substantially intersecting input roll, pitch, and output roll axes; and first, second, and third linear actuators operating the rotary outputs, wherein the second and third rotary outputs comprise a geared differential mechanism driven by the second and third linear actuators to provide concurrent and independent rotation about the pitch and output roll axes. 15. The robotic joint of claim 14, wherein first and second input gears of the geared differential are driven by the second and third linear actuators through four-bar linkages attached to the first and second input gears and wherein the output roll axis extends through an output gear of the geared differential mechanism mating with the first and second input gears and the pitch axis extends through the first and second input gears. 16. A robotic joint, comprising: a geared differential comprising a first input gear, an output gear, and a second input gear interconnected by a cross element; an output element mounted to the output gear to rotate with the output gear about an output roll axis; and a first linear actuator selectively driving the first input gear and a second linear actuator selectively driving the second input gear to provide the rotation of the output gear and to provide rotation of the robotic joint about a pitch axis extending through the input gears. 17. The robotic joint of claim 16, further comprising a first four-bar linkage connected to the first input gear and to an actuator arm of the first linear actuator and comprising a second four-bar linkage connected to the second input gear and to an actuator arm of the second linear actuator. 18. The robotic joint of claim 16, wherein the output roll axis and the pitch axis intersect in the cross element. 19. The robotic joint of claim 16, further comprising: a housing supporting the geared differential and pivotally mounted to rotate about an input roll axis extending through the housing and substantially intersecting both the output roll axis and the pitch axis; and an input roll assembly including a linear actuator selectively rotating the housing about the input roll axis, wherein the input roll assembly further includes a four-bar linkage with an input link connected to the linear actuator of the input roll assembly and with an output link connected to the housing. 