An apparatus, system, and method are disclosed for a data storage apparatus with a secondary optical memory. The data storage apparatus includes a data storage cartridge, a primary data storage medium in the data storage cartridge, and a secondary optical storage medium attached to the data storage cartridge. The data storage apparatus, in one embodiment, includes a beam splitter attached to the data storage cartridge. The beam splitter may be positioned at approximately a 45 degree angle in relation to a data storage surface of the secondary optical storage medium.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A data storage apparatus with a secondary optical memory comprising: a data storage cartridge; a primary data storage medium in the data storage cartridge; a secondary optical storage medium attached to the data storage cartridge wherein the secondary optical storage medium is a data storage medium selected from the group consisting of a rewritable phase change optical storage media, a magneto-optical storage media, and a dye polymer optical storage media; and a beam splitter attached to the data storage cartridge. 2. The data storage apparatus of claim 1, wherein the beam splitter is positioned at approximately a 45 degree angle in relation to a data storage surface of the secondary optical storage medium. 3. The data storage apparatus of claim 1, wherein the data storage cartridge is compatible with an automated tape storage library. 4. The data storage apparatus of claim 3, wherein the automated tape storage library comprises a first optical read/write module attached to an accessor assembly and a second optical read/write module attached to a data storage cartridge drive assembly. 5. A data storage apparatus with a secondary optical memory comprising: a data storage cartridge; a primary data storage medium in the data storage cartridge; and a secondary optical storage medium attached to the data storage cartridge; and a beam splitter attached to the data storage cartridge. 6. The data storage apparatus of claim 5, wherein the beam splitter is positioned at approximately a 45 degree angle in relation to a data storage surface of the secondary optical storage medium. 7. The data storage apparatus of claim 5, wherein the secondary optical storage medium comprises a holographic optical storage media. 8. The data storage apparatus of claim 5, wherein the data storage cartridge is compatible with an automated tape storage library. 9. The data storage apparatus of claim 8, wherein the automated tape storage library comprises a first optical read/write module attached to an accessor assembly and a second optical read/write module attached to a data storage cartridge drive assembly. 10. A system to store data on a secondary optical memory in a data storage apparatus, the system comprising: a data storage cartridge; a first optical read/write module; a primary data storage medium in the data storage cartridge; a secondary optical storage medium attached to the data storage cartridge; and a beam splitter attached to the data storage cartridge. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the beam splitter is positioned at approximately a 45 degree angle in relation to a data storage surface of the secondary optical storage medium to allow the first optical read/write module and a second optical read write module to write data to or read data from the secondary optical storage medium while the first and second optical read/write modules are positioned at approximately a 90 degree angle with respect to each other. 12. The system of claim 10, further comprising a processor controlling an optical read/write module. 13. The system of claim 12, further comprising at least one host computer connected to the processor. 14. The system of claim 10, wherein the data storage cartridge is compatible with an automated tape storage library. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein the secondary optical storage medium comprises a data storage medium selected from the group consisting of a rewritable phase change optical storage media, a magneto-optical storage media, a dye-polymer optical storage media, and a holographic optical storage media. 16. A method for storing data on a secondary optical memory in a data storage apparatus, the method comprising: positioning an optical read/write module to write data to or read data from a secondary optical storage medium attached to a data storage cartridge wherein the data storage cartridge includes a primary storage medium; activating a light source in the optical read/write module to write data to or read data from the secondary optical storage medium; writing data to or reading data from the secondary optical storage medium; and providing a beam splitter positioned at approximately a 45 degree angle in relation to a data storage surface of the secondary optical storage medium. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein positioning an optical read/write module further comprises moving an optical read/write module approximately into a position to write data to or read data from the secondary optical storage medium and adjusting the optical read/write module to write data to or read data from the secondary optical storage medium. 18. The method of claim 16, further comprising positioning a first optical read/write module to write data to or read data from the secondary optical storage medium through the beam splitter and positioning a second optical read/write module at approximately a 90 degree angle with respect to the first optical read/write module to write data to or read data from the secondary optical storage medium reflected off of the beam splitter to the secondary optical storage medium. 19. The method of claim 16, further comprising positioning the data storage cartridge at a location where a second optical read/write module may write data to or read data from the secondary optical storage medium reflected from the beam splitter and positioning the first optical read/write module to write data to or read data from the secondary optical storage medium through the beam splitter. 20. A method for deploying computing infrastructure to store data on a secondary optical memory in a data storage apparatus and for deploying associated computer-readable code into a computing system, wherein the code in combination with the computing infrastructure is capable of performing the following: positioning an optical read/write module to write data to or read data from a secondary optical storage medium attached to a data storage cartridge wherein the data storage cartridge includes a primary storage medium; activating a light source in the optical read/write module to write data to or read data from the secondary optical storage medium; writing data to or reading data from the secondary optical storage medium; and providing a beam splitter attached to the data storage cartridge. 