An automated packaging system has a plurality of dunnage dispensing stations that can dispense dunnage and a transport network for conveying containers to and from at least two dispensing stations for dunnage to be placed therein. At at least one loading station upstream of a dispensing station articles are placed in the containers for shipping. Optionally, an intermediate void determination station determines how much dunnage to dispense.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A packaging system, comprising at least two dunnage dispensing stations, each of which has at least one dunnage dispenser from which a dunnage material can be dispensed; and a transport network for conveying containers to and from the at least two dunnage dispensing stations for dunnage to be placed therein, wherein the transport network includes at least two paths, each of which includes at least one dunnage dispensing station, and wherein the transport network includes a mechanism for selectively routing each container along a respective path to a particular dispensing station based on a characteristic of the container. 2. A packaging system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the mechanism includes a sensor for identifying a characteristic of the container. 3. A packaging system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the dunnage dispenser includes a dunnage conversion machine that can convert a stock material into a relatively less dense dunnage material. 4. A packaging system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the dunnage dispenser includes a supply of dunnage having at least one of air bags, crumpled paper, foam strips, foam peanuts, and paper strips. 5. A packaging system as set forth in claim 1, comprising one or more loading stations upstream of at least one dunnage dispensing station where one or more articles are placed in one or more containers for transport. 6. A packaging system as set forth in claim 1, including an intermediate station upstream of at least one dunnage dispensing station that includes a sensor for sensing a characteristic of the void volume in the container. 7. A packaging system as set forth in claim 1, including an intermediate station upstream of at least one dunnage dispensing station that includes at least one device for determining whether the container conforms to predetermined criteria. 8. A packaging system as set forth in claim 7, wherein the transport network includes a way to divert nonconforming containers that fail to meet the predetermined criteria. 9. A packaging method, comprising the following steps: routing a container along a path to a dunnage dispensing station selected from multiple paths, each of which includes a dunnage dispensing station, based on routing criteria that includes a characteristic of the container; and supplying dunnage to the container at the dunnage dispensing station. 10. A method as set forth in claim 9, wherein the routing step includes routing based on routing criteria that includes one or more of characteristics of the dunnage material, characteristics of the void in the container, and characteristics of the article to be shipped in the container. 11. A method as set forth in claim 9, wherein the routing step includes determining the type of dunnage to be dispensed. 12. A method as set forth in claim 9, including the step of determining the void volume in the container. 13. A method as set forth in claim 12, wherein the supplying step includes dispensing dunnage material based on the void volume of the container. 14. A method as set forth in claim 9, including the steps of assigning an identifier to each container and tracking the container as it moves through the packaging system. 15. A method as set forth in claim 9, including the step of diverting containers that do not conform to predetermined criteria. 16. A packaging system, comprising one or more void sensing stations that sense characteristics of a void volume of a container; a plurality of dunnage dispensing stations that can dispense dunnage material based on the sensed characteristics of the void sensing stations; and a transport network for moving the container along a path from one of the void sensing stations to a selected one of the dunnage dispensing stations based on the sensed characteristics, wherein the transport network includes multiple paths and each path includes a respective dunnage dispensing station. 17. An automated packaging system for filling the void in a container comprising: a plurality of loading stations for loading containers; a plurality of dunnage dispensing stations; a transport network linking the loading stations to the plurality of dunnage dispensing stations for transporting the containers from the plurality of loading stations to one or more dunnage dispensing stations, where the transport network includes a plurality of paths, and each path includes a dunnage dispensing station; a controller; and a void volume detection device upstream of at least one dispensing station for obtaining information indicative of the void volume in the container and providing the obtained information to the controller, wherein the controller automatically routes containers via respective paths in the transport network to selected dunnage dispensing stations based on the obtained information. 18. A system as set forth in claim 17, wherein the controller determines a volume of dunnage to be dispensed at a dunnage dispensing station as a function of the information indicative of the void volume and directs a dunnage dispensing station to automatically dispense the determined volume of dunnage. 19. An automated system for packaging articles in a container comprising: a loading station for loading one or more articles in a container; means for identifying a characteristic of the container; means for determining a volume of dunnage to dispense into the container; a plurality of dunnage dispensers, each of which lies on a respective one of multiple paths from the determining means; and means for routing the container on a respective path from the loading station to a selected one of the plurality of dunnage dispensers based on identified characteristics of the containers; wherein the selected dunnage dispenser provides the determined volume of dunnage into the container. 20. An automated system as set forth in claim 19, comprising means for determining that the container is not suitable for automatic filling of dunnage as a function of the identified characteristic. 