A feedthrough terminal assembly for active implantable medical devices includes a structural wire bond pad for a convenient attachment of wires from either the circuitry inside the implantable medical device or wires external to the device. Direct attachment of wire bond pads to terminal pins enables thermal or ultrasonic bonding of lead wires, while shielding the capacitor or other delicate components from the forces applied to the assembly during attachment of the wires.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A feedthrough terminal assembly for an active implantable medical device, comprising: a conductive terminal pin extending through a housing for the active implantable medical device in non-conductive relation; a non-conductive insulator disposed between the terminal pin and the housing; and a wire bond pad conductively coupled to a portion of the terminal pin on a body fluid side of the assembly, the wire bond pad adapted to have a lead wire conductively attached thereto. 2. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the wire bond pad is comprised of or coated with a conductive and biocompatible material. 3. The assembly of claim 2, wherein the wire bond pad is comprised of or coated with a noble metal, titanium or stainless steel. 4. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to the insulator and the terminal pin. 5. The assembly of claim 4, wherein a high temperature thermal setting material attaches the insulator and the wire bond pad. 6. The assembly of claim 1, including a second wire bond pad conductively attached to a portion of the terminal pin within the housing of the active implantable medical device. 7. The assembly of claim 6, wherein either or both of the wire bond pads are comprised of Kovar or Alloy 42. 8. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the wire bond pad is disposed over an end of the terminal pin. 9. The assembly of claim 8, wherein the wire bond pad includes a socket for receiving an end of the terminal pin therein. 10. The assembly of claim 9, wherein the wire bond pad is resistance welded to the terminal pin. 11. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the wire bond pad is mechanically attached to the terminal pin. 12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the wire bond pad is threaded onto an end of the terminal pin. 13. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the wire bond pad includes an aperture, hole or slot for facilitating laser welding of the wire bond pad to the terminal pin. 14. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the wire bond pad is spaced apart from the insulator and supported solely on the terminal pin. 15. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the wire bond pad includes an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 16. The assembly of claim 15, wherein first and second portions of the wire bond pad are angularly displaced relative to one another. 17. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the wire bond pad includes an aperture through which the terminal pin extends. 18. The assembly of claim 1, including a non-conductive substrate having an aperture into which the terminal pin extends. 19. The assembly of claim 18, wherein the substrate includes a conductive surface trace having a bonding area. 20. The assembly of claim 19, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively attached to the bonding area. 21. The assembly of claim 20, wherein the substrate aperture is substantially lined with a conductive material conductively coupled to the surface trace and bonding area. 22. The assembly of claim 18, wherein the substrate includes a tapered edge and comprises multiple apertures therethrough for passage of multiple terminal pins, including a ground pin, and wherein wire bond pads are conductively coupled to each terminal pin. 23. The assembly of claim 18, wherein the substrate is selected from an alumina, ceramic, berrylia, aluminum nitride, Fosterite, polyimide, cyanate ester, barium titanate, epoxy or fiber-reinforced material. 24. The assembly of claim 1, including a conductive ferrule conductively coupled to the housing of the active implantable medical device, through which the terminal pin extends in non-conductive relation. 25. The assembly of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises a ceramic-based material. 26. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising: a conductive ferrule adapted to be conductively coupled to the housing of the active implantable medical device wherein the conductive terminal pin extends through the ferrule in non-conductive relation and wherein the non-conductive insulator is disposed between the terminal pin and the ferrule; and a feedthrough capacitor having an aperture for the terminal pin to extend therethrough, the capacitor including a first set of electrode plates conductively coupled to the terminal pin, and a second set of electrode plates conductively coupled to the ferrule. 27. The assembly of claim 26, wherein the wire bond pad is comprised of or coated with a conductive and biocompatible material. 28. The assembly of claim 27, wherein the wire bond pad is comprised of or coated with a noble metal, titanium or stainless steel. 29. The assembly of claim 26, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to the insulator and the terminal pin. 30. The assembly of claim 29, wherein a high temperature thermal setting material attaches the insulator and the wire bond pad. 31. The assembly of claim 26, including a second wire bond pad conductively attached to a portion of the terminal pin within the housing of the active implantable medical device. 32. The assembly of claim 31, wherein either or both of the wire bond pads are comprised of Kovar or Alloy 42. 33. The assembly of claim 31, wherein the second wire bond pad is disposed adjacent to the capacitor and conductively coupled to the terminal pin. 34. The assembly of claim 33, including an electrically insulative material disposed between the wire bond pad and the capacitor. 35. The assembly of claim 31, wherein the second wire bond pad is conductively coupled to the first set of electrode plates. 36. The assembly of claim 31, including a substrate disposed adjacent to a planar surface of the capacitor and configured to at least partially protect the capacitor from forces incident to conductive coupling of the lead wire to the first set of electrode plates. 37. The assembly of claim 36, wherein the wire bond pad is attached to the substrate. 38. The assembly of claim 36, including a conductive insert ring disposed within a recess in the substrate, the insert ring being conductively coupled to the terminal pin and the substrate. 39. The assembly of claim 38, wherein the substrate includes a conductive trace conductively coupled to the insert ring, and defining a bonding area on a surface of the substrate. 40. The assembly of claim 39, wherein the second wire bond pad is conductively attached to the bonding surface. 41. The assembly of claim 26, wherein the wire bond pad is disposed over an end of the terminal pin. 42. The assembly of claim 41, wherein the wire bond pad includes a socket for receiving an end of the terminal pin therein. 43. The assembly of claim 42, wherein the wire bond pad is resistance welded to the terminal pin. 44. The assembly of claim 26, wherein the wire bond pad is mechanically attached to the terminal pin. 45. The assembly of claim 44, wherein the wire bond pad is threaded onto an end of the terminal pin. 46. The assembly of claim 26, wherein the wire bond pad includes an aperture, hole or slot for facilitating laser welding of the wire bond pad to the terminal pin. 47. The assembly of claim 26, wherein the wire bond pad is spaced apart from the insulator and supported solely on the terminal pin. 48. The assembly of claim 26, wherein the wire bond pad includes an extension to which the lead wire is attached. 49. The assembly of claim 48, wherein first and second portions of the wire bond pad are angularly displaced relative to one another. 50. The assembly of claim 26, wherein the wire bond pad includes an aperture through which the terminal pin extends. 51. The assembly of claim 26, including a non-conductive substrate having an aperture into which the terminal pin extends. 52. The assembly of claim 51, wherein the substrate includes a conductive surface trace having a bonding area. 53. The assembly of claim 52, wherein the wire bond pad is conductively attached to the bonding area. 54. The assembly of claim 53, wherein the substrate aperture is substantially lined with a conductive material conductively coupled to the surface trace and bonding area. 55. The assembly of claim 51, wherein the substrate includes a tapered edge. 56. The assembly of claim 55, wherein the substrate includes multiple apertures therethrough for passage of multiple terminal pins, including a ground pin, and wherein wire bond pads are conductively coupled to each terminal pin. 57. The assembly of claim 51, wherein the substrate comprises a ceramic-based material. 58. The assembly of claim 51, wherein the substrate is selected from an alumina, ceramic, berrylia, aluminum nitride, Fosterite, polyimide, cyanate ester, barium titanate, epoxy or fiber-reinforced material. 