An apparatus for making a shingle, together with the shingle made thereby, is provided, in which one or more thermoplastic materials are extruded or co-extruded to form an extrudate, with the extrudate being cut into a preliminary shingle shape, which is allowed to dissipate heat, and then is delivered to a compression mold, wherein the preliminary shingle shape is compression molded to substantially its final dimensions and is then discharged from the mold and allowed to cool.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for making shingle or tile products comprising: (a) co-extruding means for co-extruding heated, unshaped thermoplastic materials from molten states in a co-extruder and discharging those unshaped thermoplastic materials from a mouth of the co-extruder into a formed, continuous shaped extrudate that includes a core material with a capstock product surfacing material on and adhered directly to at least a portion of a major surface of the core material of the continuous shaped extrudate and cutting means for then directly cutting the extrudate into a plurality of preliminary product shapes while the preliminary product shapes are above a solidification temperature; (b) delivering means for then delivering the preliminary product shapes serially along a path while allowing the preliminary product shapes to cool an amount that maintains the temperature of the preliminary product shapes above a solidification temperature; (c) delivering means for then delivering the cooled but still non-solid preliminary product shapes to a compression mold; (d) compression molding means for molding the preliminary product shapes in the mold by compression molding the preliminary product shapes to substantially their final product dimensions and controlling means for controlling internal stress development of the product shapes in the mold by having the capstock product surfacing material being at a greater temperature in the mold than the temperature of the core material in the mold; and (e) discharging means for then discharging the molded products from the mold and allowing the molded products to cool to a solid state. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, including means for cutting peripheral material from edge portions of the shingle in the mold. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the means for cutting peripheral material comprises means for doing the cutting as part of and substantially simultaneously with the compression molding step. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, including means for cooling the mold during the compression molding step. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, including means for pushing the extrudate away from the interior of the mold. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the preliminary product shapes are of a first size and the compression mold has a second size, and said first size is selected from the group consisting of the same as and greater than the second size. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the co-extruding means includes means for co-extruding more than two layers of thermoplastic material. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the delivering means of clause (c) includes means for transporting the preliminary product shapes to a compression mold, by transport means. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, including means for placing the preliminary product shapes between spaced apart male and female components of a mold that together have formed interiors that define substantially the final shape of the products and means for bringing the said components together under sufficient compression force to shape the preliminary product shapes into substantially the final dimensions of the products. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, including means for transferring the mold to a compression molding station where the compression molding takes place. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the means for transferring the mold includes an indexable table having a plurality of stations for molds, with means for serially transferring molds to and from the compression molding station where the compression molding takes place. 12. Apparatus for making shingle or tile products comprising: (a) co-extruding means for co-extruding heated, unshaped thermoplastic materials from molten states in a co-extruder and discharging those unshaped thermoplastic materials from a mouth of the co-extruder into a formed, continuous shaped extrudate that includes a core material with a capstock product surfacing material on and adhered directly to at least a portion of a major surface of the core material of the continuous shaped extrudate and cutting means for then directly cutting the extrudate into a plurality of preliminary product shapes while the preliminary product shapes are above a solidification temperature; (b) delivering means for then delivering the preliminary product shapes serially along a path while allowing the preliminary product shapes to cool an amount that maintains the temperature of the preliminary product shapes above a solidification temperature; (c) delivering means for then delivering the cooled but still non-solid preliminary product shapes to a compression mold; (d) compression molding means for molding the preliminary product shapes in the mold by compression molding the preliminary product shapes to substantially their final product dimensions, wherein the compression molding means includes flowing means for causing the surfacing material to flow over at least one edge of core material, to cover that edge in each molded product; and (e) discharging means for then discharging the molded products from the mold and allowing the molded products to cool to a solid state. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, including means for placing the preliminary shingle shape between spaced apart male and female components of a mold that together have formed interiors that define substantially the final shape of the shingle and means for bringing the said components together under sufficient compression force to shape the preliminary shingle shape into substantially the final dimensions of the shingle. 14. The apparatus of claim 12, including means for cutting peripheral material from edge portions of the shingle in the mold. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the means for cutting peripheral material comprises means for doing the cutting as part of and substantially simultaneously with the compression molding step. 16. The apparatus of claim 12, including means for cooling the mold during the compression molding step. 17. The apparatus of claim 12, including means for pushing the extrudate away from the interior of the mold. 18. The apparatus of claim 13, including means for transferring the mold to a compression molding station where the compression molding takes place. 19. The apparatus 18, wherein the means for transferring the mold includes an indexable table having a plurality of stations for molds, with means for serially transferring molds to and from the compression molding station where the compression molding takes place. 