In one aspect, the invention is directed to polypeptides having an amylase activity, polynucleotides encoding the polypeptides, and methods for malting and using these polynucleotides and polypeptides. In one aspect, the polypeptides of the invention can be used as amylases, for example, alpha amylases, to catalyze the hydrolysis of starch into 10 sugars.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A composition comprising: (A) a polypeptide, wherein the polypeptide has an alpha-amylase activity and: (a) the polypeptide is encoded by a nucleic acid comprising: (i) a sequence having at least 94% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1, (ii) a fragment of (i) encoding an enzymatically active fragment; (iii) the nucleic acid of (i), wherein the nucleic acid sequence comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO:1 or a polypeptide having the sequence of SEQ ID NO:2; (iv) a nucleic acid comprising a sequence that hybridizes under stringent conditions to the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO:1, wherein the nucleic acid encodes a polypeptide having an alpha-amylase activity and the stringent conditions include a wash step comprising a wash in 0.2.times.SSC at a temperature of about 65.degree. C. for about 15 minutes, and the nucleic acid has at least 94% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1; or (v) the nucleic acid of any of (i) to (iv), wherein the nucleic acid sequence is codon-optimized for increased expression in a host cell, wherein the codon optimization comprises replacing a codon with a different codon encoding the same amino acid as the replaced codon; or (b) the polypeptide comprises (i) an amino acid sequence having at least 94% sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:2, (ii) an enzymatically active fragment of (i); or (iii) the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:2; or (B) a glycosylated version of the polypeptide of(A). 2. The composition of claim 1 in a textile, a paper or paper product or paper pulp, a pulp or pulp product, a lignocellulosic material or lignocellulosic fiber, a cardboard, a waste paper, a starch-coated printed paper, a high-maltose or a high-glucose liquid or syrup, an anti-staling composition, an oral care product, a pharmaceutical composition, a beverage, an alcoholic beverage, an alcohol, a feed or a food, a detergent composition, a liquid, a solid or a gel, a food supplement or a feed supplement, an enzyme delivery matrix or an edible enzyme delivery matrix, a drilling fluid, a production fluid, or a bakery product. 3. The composition of claim 1 in a starch or an oligosaccharide-comprising composition. 4. The composition of claim 1 wherein the polypeptide is produced by expressing the nucleic acid in (i) a plant; (ii) a corn plant, a potato plant, a tomato plant, a wheat plant, an oilseed plant, a rapeseed plant, a soybean plant, a rice plant, a barley plant or a tobacco plant; or, (iii) a plant species from the genera Anacardium, Arachis, Asparagus, Atropa, Avena, Brassica, Citrus, Citrullus, Capsicum, Carthamus, Cocos, Coffea, Cucumis, Cucurbita, Daucus, Elaeis, Fragaria, Glycine, Gossypium, Helianthus, Heterocallis, Hordeum, Hyoscyamus, Lactuca, Linum, Lolium, Lupinus, Lycopersicon, Malus, Manihot, Majorana, Medica go, Nicotiana, Olea, Oryza, Panleum, Pannisetum, Persea, Phaseolus, Pistachia, Pisum, Pyrus, Prunus, Raphanus, Ricinus, Secale, Seneclo, Sinapis, Solanum, Sorghum, Theobromus, Trigonella, Triticum, Vicia, Vitis, Vigna or Zea; or, (iv) a cotton plant, silk cotton tree, Kapok, Ceiba pentandra, desert willow, creosote bush, winterfat, balsa, ramie, kenaf, hemp, roselle, jute, sisal, abaca or a flax. 5. The composition of claim 1, wherein the sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1 or SEQ ID NO:2 is 95%. 6. The composition of claim 5, wherein the sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1 or SEQ ID NO:2 is 96%. 7. The composition of claim 6, wherein the sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1 or SEQ ID NO:2 is 97%. 8. The composition of claim 1 comprising a textile, a paper or paper product or paper pulp, a pulp or pulp product, a lignocellulosic material or lignocellulosic fiber, a cardboard, a waste paper, a starch-coated printed paper, a high-maltose or a high-glucose liquid or syrup, an anti-staling composition, an oral care product, a pharmaceutical composition, a beverage, an alcoholic beverage, an alcohol, a feed or a food, a detergent composition, a liquid, a solid or a gel, a food supplement or a feed supplement, an enzyme delivery matrix or an edible enzyme delivery matrix, a drilling fluid, a production fluid, or a bakery product. 9. The composition of claim 1 comprising a starch or an oligosaccharide. 10. The composition of claim 7, wherein the sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1 or SEQ ID NO:2 is 98%. 11. The composition of claim 10, wherein the sequence identity to SEQ ID NO:1 or SEQ ID NO:2 is 99%. 12. A method for hydrolyzing a starch or an oligosaceharide comprising: (a) providing the composition of claim 1; (b) providing a composition comprising a starch or an oligosaccharide; and (c) contacting the composition of claim 1 with the composition of (b) under conditions wherein the polypeptide in the composition of (a) hydrolyzes the starch or the oligosaccharide. 13. A method for liquefying or removing a starch or an oligosaccharide from a composition comprising: (a) providing the composition of claim 1; (b) providing a composition comprising a starch or an oligosaccharide; and (c) contacting the composition of claim 1 with the composition of (b) under conditions wherein the polypeptide in the composition of (a) removes or liquefies the starch or the oligosaccharide. 14. A method for washing an object comprising contacting an object with the composition of claim 1. 15. A method for hydrolyzing a starch or an oligosaccharide in a feed or a food prior to consumption by an animal comprising: (a) obtaining a feed material comprising a starch or an oligosaccharide, wherein the starch or the oligosaccharide can be hydrolyzed by a polypeptide having an amylase activity; and (b) adding the composition of claim 1 to the feed or food material in an amount sufficient for a sufficient time period for the polypeptide in the composition to cause hydrolysis of the starch or the oligosaccharide and formation of a treated food or feed, thereby hydrolyzing the starch or the oligosaccharide in the food or the feed prior to consumption by the animal. 16. A method for textile desizing comprising contacting a textile with the composition of claim 1. 17. A method for deiniking of paper or fiber comprising contacting a paper or a fiber with the composition of claim 1. 18. A method for treatment of lignocellulosic fiber comprising contacting a lignocellulosic fiber with the composition of claim 1. 19. A method for producing a high-maltose or a high-glucose syrup comprising contacting a composition comprising a starch or an oligosaccharide with the composition of claim 1. 20. A method for improving the flow of a drilling fluid or a production fluid comprising contacting a drilling or a production fluid with the composition of claim 1. 21. A method for preventing staling of a baked product comprising contacting a composition used for baking comprising a starch or an oligosaccharide with the composition of claim 1. 22. A method for brewing or alcohol production comprising contacting a composition comprising a starch or an oligosaccharide with the composition of claim 1. 