The present invention provides test trays and test tray systems for assessing the response of a biological sample to a compound or combination of compounds. The compounds or combinations are arranged in a factorial design in wells of the test tray, thereby facilitating the identification of optimal compound combinations and concentrations. The invention also provides methods of fabricating the test trays including the use of programmably controllable fluid dispensing devices. In addition, the invention provides methods of using the test trays and test tray systems to identify a preferred compound or compound combination, e.g., an optimum compound or compound combination.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A high density test tray and controller combination for assessing the response of a biological sample to a plurality of compounds, comprising: a body having a surface with a plurality of wells with each respective well containing at least one compound of the plurality of compounds, wherein the plurality of compounds are arranged on the test tray according to a factorial matrix design, wherein the factorial matrix design includes multiple repetitions of a plurality of trials, and wherein the respective compounds are present in different wells of the plurality of wells at a range of concentrations of the at least one compound; and an information storage device disposed on the body of the test tray, wherein the information storage device stores information that is indicative of the factorial matrix design; wherein the body and information storage device are in electronic communication with the controller, the controller being configured to automatically select a factorial matrix arranged with the array of wells according to the factorial matrix design based on the information stored in the information storage device, the controller comprising a memory configured to store a plurality of different software algorithms, with each respective software algorithm configured for analyzing a respective factorial matrix of a plurality of factorial matrixes, and the controller being configured to automatically select, based on the information stored in the information storage device, the respective software algorithm from the plurality of different software algorithms, the respective software algorithm being specifically configured to analyze the respective factorial matrix from the plurality of factorial matrixes; and wherein the controller is in electronic communication with a detection device, the detection device being configured to assess the response of the biological sample to the respective compounds in each respective well of the test tray. 2. The combination of claim 1, wherein each well contains a combination of at least two compounds. 3. The test tray of claim 1, wherein the factorial design is a linear design. 4. The combination of claim 1, wherein the factorial design is a fractional factorial design. 5. The combination of claim 1, wherein at least one compound is an antimicrobial agent. 6. The combination of claim 1, wherein at least one compound is a pharmaceutical agent. 7. The combination of claim 1, wherein the plurality of wells includes at least 1000 wells. 8. The combination of claim 1, wherein the plurality of wells includes at least 10,000 wells. 9. The combination of claim 1, wherein the plurality of wells includes at least 100,000 wells. 10. The combination of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of each respective well has at least one capillary sized dimension. 11. The combination of claim 1, wherein the factorial design is preselected. 12. The combination of claim 1, wherein the compounds are predispensed. 13. The combination of claim 1, wherein the compounds are dessicated. 14. The combination of claim 1, further comprising a sealing element removably covering the test tray. 15. The combination of claim 1, wherein the information storage device is selected from the group consisting of electrical storage devices, optical storage devices, and magnetic storage devices. 16. The combination of claim 1, wherein the information storage device is a read/write memory. 17. A method of fabricating a high density test tray, comprising: providing a test tray having a plurality of wells arranged in a high density pattern and configured to receive a plurality of compounds, the test tray including an information storage device and the plurality of compounds including at least one of an antimicrobial agent or a pharmaceutical agent; selecting a factorial matrix design; storing information indicative of the factorial matrix design in the information storage device of the test tray to store the information independent of the respective compounds; dispensing a plurality of compounds into the plurality of wells of the test tray using a programmably controllable fluid dispensing device and according to the factorial matrix design, including dedicating one or more nozzles of at least one printhead of the programmably controllable fluid dispensing device to each of a plurality of different compounds; providing a detection device for assessing responses of biological samples to the plurality of compounds in each respective well of the test tray; and providing a controller, the controller comprising a memory configured to store a plurality of different software algorithms with each respective software algorithm configured for analyzing a respective factorial matrix of the plurality of factorial matrixes and configured to automatically select, based on the information stored in the information storage device, the respective software algorithm from the plurality of different software algorithms to analyze the respective factorial matrix from the plurality of factorial matrixes. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the step of dispensing comprises dispensing varying numbers of drops of a compound into the respective wells, the respective wells each having a different desired final compound concentration. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein at least one compound is an antimicrobial agent. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein at least one compound is a pharmaceutical agent. 21. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of wells includes at least 1000 wells. 22. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of wells includes at least 10,000 wells. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of wells includes at least 100,000 wells. 24. An automated system for detecting the response of a biological sample to a plurality of reagents, the system comprising: a test tray including: an array of wells; a first factorial matrix of test reagent mixtures arranged within the array of wells, the first factorial matrix selected from a plurality of different factorial matrices of test reagent mixtures; and an information storage device disposed on the test tray, the information storage device configured to store information indicative of the factorial matrix; a test platform including a receiving portion for receiving the test tray; a controller configured for controlling portions of the test platform upon installation of the test tray and being responsive to the information stored in the information storage device of the test tray, the controller comprising a memory configured to store a plurality of different software algorithms with each respective software algorithm configured for analyzing a respective factorial matrix of the plurality of factorial matrixes and configured to automatically select, based on the information stored in the information storage device, the respective software algorithm from the plurality of different software algorithms to analyze a respective factorial matrix from the plurality of factorial matrixes; and detection means for assessing the response of the biological sample to a compound or compound combination of the test reagent mixtures in each respective well of the test tray. 25. The system of claim 24, wherein the compounds or compound combinations of the test reagent mixtures are predispensed. 26. The system of claim 24, wherein the factorial design includes multiple repetitions of a plurality of trials. 27. The system of claim 24, wherein the plurality of wells includes at least 1,000 wells containing compounds or compound combinations of the test reagent mixtures. 28. The system of claim 24, wherein the plurality of wells includes at least 10,000 wells containing compounds or compound combinations of the test reagent mixtures. 29. The system of claim 24, wherein the plurality of wells includes at least 100,000 wells containing compounds or compound combinations of the test reagent mixtures. 30. The system of claim 24, further comprising: code to analyze the response of the biological sample to the compound or compound combinations of the test reagent mixtures and to select an optimum compound combination based on the response. 31. The system of claim 24, further comprising means for allowing the response in the wells to be detected in a random order. 32. The automated system of claim 24, wherein each respective well of the array of wells has a different location on the test tray; and the information storage device stores storing information indicative of the different locations of the test tray. 33. The automated system of claim 32, wherein the controller is responsive to the information indicative of the locations to enable the system to properly align a measurement device with each of the wells. 34. A high density test tray for assessing the response of a biological sample to a plurality of compounds, comprising: a body having a surface with a plurality of wells with each respective well containing at least one compound of the plurality of compounds, wherein the plurality of compounds are arranged on the test tray according to a factorial matrix design, wherein the factorial matrix design includes multiple repetitions of a plurality of trials, wherein the respective compounds are present in different wells of the plurality of wells at a range of concentrations of the at least one compound, wherein each well contains a combination of at least two compounds, and wherein at least a portion of each respective well has at least one capillary sized dimension; and an information storage device disposed on the body of the test tray, wherein the information storage device stores information that is indicative of the factorial matrix design; wherein the body and information storage device are in electronic communication with the controller, the controller being configured to automatically select a factorial matrix arranged with the array of wells according to the factorial matrix design based on the information stored in the information storage device, the controller comprising a memory configured to store a plurality of different software algorithms, with each respective software algorithm configured for analyzing a respective factorial matrix of a plurality of factorial matrixes, and the controller being configured to automatically select, based on the information stored in the information storage device, the respective software algorithm from the plurality of different software algorithms to analyze the respective factorial matrix of a plurality of factorial matrixes; and wherein the controller is in electronic communication with a detection device, the detection device being configured to assess the response of the biological sample to the respective compounds in each respective well of the test tray. 35. The combination of claim 34, wherein the compounds are predispensed. 