A break-away mounting system for a continuous-motion, high-speed position conveyor system is disclosed. A support cradle may be suspended from a conveyor belt such that the support cradle maintains a fixed position and orientation relative to at least one point on the conveyor belt without inducing appreciable stress on the conveyor belt, the support cradle, or the coupling between the conveyor belt and the support cradle. The mount may include a leading rotatable bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a first key attached to the conveyor belt, the rotatable bearing adapted to accommodate rotational forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. The mount may also include a slide bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a second key attached to the conveyor belt, the slide bearing adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a cradle for operatively coupling a substrate carrier to a conveyor belt; a rotatable bearing attached to the cradle; and a longitudinal bearing attached to the cradle, wherein the rotatable and longitudinal bearings enable the cradle to be mounted to the conveyor belt such that an orientation of a substrate carrier supportable by the cradle remains consistent relative to the conveyor belt during movement of the conveyor belt. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the conveyor belt includes keys to receive the bearings. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the rotatable bearing is attached to the cradle in a leading position. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the longitudinal bearing is attached to the cradle in a trailing position. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the keys are the same as each other. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the rotational and longitudinal bearings are releasable. 7. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the keys are disposed on the conveyor belt so as to align with the bearings. 8. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the consistent orientation includes a center line of the substrate carrier remaining aligned with a line tangent to the conveyor belt at a point between the keys as the conveyor belt follows a non-linear path. 9. An apparatus comprising: a cradle for coupling to a substrate carrier; a rotatable bearing attached to the cradle; and a longitudinal bearing attached to the cradle, wherein the rotatable bearing and the longitudinal bearing enable the cradle to be mounted to a conveyor belt such that an orientation of a substrate carrier supportable by the cradle remains consistent relative to the conveyor belt during movement of the conveyor belt as the conveyor belt follows a non-linear path. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the conveyor belt includes keys to receive the bearings. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the rotatable bearing is attached to the cradle in a leading position. 12. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the longitudinal bearing is attached to the cradle in a trailing position. 13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the keys are the same as each other. 14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the rotational and longitudinal bearings are releasable. 15. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the keys are disposed on the conveyor belt so as to align with the bearings. 16. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the consistent orientation includes a center line of the substrate carrier remaining aligned with a line tangent to the conveyor belt at a point between the keys as the conveyor belt follows a non-linear path. 17. An apparatus comprising: a cradle for coupling to a substrate carrier; a rotatable bearing attached to the cradle; and a longitudinal bearing attached to the cradle, wherein the rotatable and longitudinal bearings enable the cradle to be mounted to a conveyor belt such that an orientation of a substrate carrier supportable by the cradle remains consistent relative to the conveyor belt during movement of the conveyor belt, the conveyor belt includes keys to receive the bearings, wherein the keys are disposed on the conveyor belt so as to align with the bearings. 18. An apparatus comprising: a cradle for coupling to a substrate carrier; a rotatable bearing attached to the cradle; and a longitudinal bearing attached to the cradle, wherein the rotatable and longitudinal bearings enable the cradle to be mounted to a conveyor belt such that an orientation of a substrate carrier supportable by the cradle remains consistent relative to the conveyor belt during movement of the conveyor belt, the conveyor belt includes keys to receive the bearings, wherein the consistent orientation includes a center line of the substrate carrier remaining aligned with a line tangent to the conveyor belt at a point between the keys as the conveyor belt follows a non-linear path. 19. An apparatus comprising: a cradle for coupling to a substrate carrier; a rotatable bearing attached to the cradle; and a longitudinal bearing attached to the cradle, wherein the rotatable bearing and the longitudinal bearing enable the cradle to be mounted to a conveyor belt such that an orientation of a substrate carrier supportable by the cradle remains consistent relative to the conveyor belt during movement of the conveyor belt as the conveyor belt follows a non-linear path, wherein the conveyor belt includes keys to receive the bearings and, wherein the consistent orientation includes a center line of the substrate carrier remaining aligned with a line tangent to the conveyor belt at a point between the keys as the conveyor belt follows a non-linear path. 