A method of treating a surface for the removal of a surface portion comprising irradiating the surface with laser light, wherein the irradiation is effected by covering said surface in a sequential manner with a plurality of discrete spots of laser light. The spots of laser light overlap and may be arranged in a geometric arrangement defined by the locations of the centers of the spots of laser light. The spots of laser light may be applied sequentially.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of treating an inorganic non-metallic surface for the removal of a portion of said surface by scabbling, the method comprising the repeated sequence of steps of irradiating a first discrete location on the surface with a stationary spot of laser light having an average power density of from 30 W/cm.sup.2 to 200 W/cm.sup.2 for a period of from 1 s to 30 s; and then (a) moving the spot of laser light relative to the surface; or (b) moving the surface relative to the spot of laser light, so as to irradiate a second discrete location on the surface in the same manner, said moving of the spot relative to the surface or the surface relative to the spot being intermittent such that the time interval between irradiation of successive discrete locations on the surface by the spot of laser light is between 0.1 s and 2 s. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein the laser light source is switched off between irradiation of successive discrete locations on the surface. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein the laser light beam is interrupted, between irradiation of successive discrete locations on the surface. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein the discrete locations on the surface irradiated by respective spots of laser light overlap each other. 5. A method according to claim 4 wherein the extent of overlap of the discrete locations on the surface irradiated by the spot of laser light is such that no area which is not at one time during use of the method exposed to laser light is present between said locations. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein successive discrete locations on the surface irradiated by the spot of laser light are arranged in a geometric pattern. 7. A method according to claim 6 wherein the geometric pattern is that of the corners of a figure chosen from the group consisting of triangles, rectangles, rhombi, pentagons, and hexagons. 8. A method according to claim 1 wherein the spot of laser light defined as an area of laser light, incident upon a surface which is above a threshold power density level for causing scabbling is circular; and wherein a distance between the centers of locations irradiated by the spot of laser light is in the range 4/7 to 6/7 of the diameter of the circular spot of laser light. 9. A method according to claim 1 wherein the duration of irradiation of each discrete location on the surface by the spot of laser light is more than five times longer than the time interval between irradiation of successive discrete locations on the surface by the spot of laser light. 