The double bag vacuum infusion process of the present invention provides a low cost method for producing complex composite assemblies without an autoclave. It also enables the production of highly innovative structures. The quality of the composites produced using such an infusion process are comparable to composites made using prepregs, hand layup or fiber placement, and autoclave curing. Double bagging provides vacuum integrity, controls bag relaxation while flow media controls the flow front to allow high quality aerospace-grade products.
Claims We claim: 1. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform comprising: locating a preform on a mold; sealingly bagging the preform to the mold with an inner bag forming a first vacuum chamber; sealingly bagging the inner bag to the mold with an outer bag forming a second vacuum chamber; evacuating the first vacuum chamber; evacuating the second vacuum chamber with the pressure in the second vacuum chamber being greater than the pressure in the first vacuum chamber; and infusing a resin into the preform using a vacuum-assisted resin transfer apparatus while maintaining the pressure in the first and second vacuum chambers. 2. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 1 further comprising substantially debulking the preform by evacuating at least the first vacuum chamber prior to infusing the resin. 3. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 1 further comprising elevating the temperature of at least the first vacuum chamber and then evacuating at least the first vacuum chamber. 4. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 1 further comprising locating passive vacuum chambers within the first vacuum chamber. 5. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 1 further comprising asscmbling the preform by tackifying the preform with a tackifier solution prior to bagging. 6. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 1 further comprising: locating a flow control media between the inner bag and the preform; and infusing the resin into the flow control media with the resin passing through the flow control media and then into the preform. 7. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 1 wherein the flow control media includes fill that act as weirs to the infusing resin. 8. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 1 further comprising locating a breather between the inner bag and the outer bag. 9. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion mcthod for a preform according to claim 6 further comprising tilting the preform and the flow control media at an angle off horizontal and then infusing the resin into the flow control media with the resin passing through the flow control media and then into the preform. 10. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 9 wherein the tilted flow control media has a lowest point and infusing the resin into the flow control media at the lowest point. 11. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 1 further comprising coupling at least one vacuum pump to the first vacuum chamber via at least one first vacuum tube and coupling at least one vacuum pump to the second vacuum chamber via at least one aecond vacuum tube. 12. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 11 further comprising throttling the at least one first vacuum tube while infusing a resin such that the inner bag is substantially prevented from relaxing behind a wave front of resin when resin is infused into the preform. 13. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 1 wherein: the first vacuum chamber comprising a first space bounded by and including the inner bag and the mold; and the second vacuum chamber comprising a second space bounded by and including the inner bag, the mold, and the outer bag. 14. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform comprising: locating a preform on a mold; bagging the preform to the mold with an inner bag forming a first vacuum chamber; bagging the inner bag to the mold with an outer bag forming a second vacuum chamber; evacuating the first vacuum chamber such that the first vacuum chamber collapses substantially against the preform; evacuating the second vacuum chamber with the pressure in the second vacuum chamber being greater than the pressure in the first vacuum chamber and such that the second vacuum chamber collapses substantially against the first vacuum chamber; and infusing a resin into the preform using a vacuum-assisted resin transfer apparatus. 15. A double vacuum chamber resin infYision method for a preform according to claim 14 further comprising substantially debulking the preform by evacuating at least the first vacuum chamber prior to infusing the resin. 16. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 14 further comprising elevating the temperature of a least the first vacuum chamber and then evacuating at least the first vacuum chamber. 17. A double vacuum chamber resin infUsion method for a preform according to claim 14 further comprising locating passive vacuum chambers within the first vacuum chamber. 18. A double vacuum chamber resin infuision method for a preform according to claim 14 further comprising assembling the preform by tackifying the preform with a tackifler solution prior to bagging. 19. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 14 further comprising: locating a flow control media between the inner bag and the preform; and infusing the resin into the flow control media with the resin passing through the flow control media and then into the preform. 20. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 19 wherein the flow control media includes fill fibers that act as weirs to the infusing resin. 21. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 19 further comprking tilting the preform and the flow control media at an angle off horizontal and then infusing the resin into the flow control media with the resin passing through the flow control media and then into the preform. 22. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 21 wherein the tilted flow control media has a lowest point and infusing the resin into the flow control media at the lowest point. 23. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform according to claim 14 further comprising coupling at least one vacuum pump to the first vacuum chamber via at least one first vacuum tube and coupling at least one vacuum pump to the second vacuum chamber via at least one second vacuum tube. 24. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a preform Rccording to cinim 23 further comprising throttling the at least one first vacuum tube while infusing a resin such that the inner bag is substantially prevented from relaxing behind a wave front of resin when resin is infused into the preform. 25. A double vacuum chamber resin infusion method for a pretorm according to claim 14 wherein: the first vacuum chamber comprising a first space bounded by and including the inner bag and the mold; and the second vacuum chamber comprising a second space bounded by and including the inner bag, the mold, and the outer bag. 26. A method for infusing with resin a preform disposed on a mold, the method comprising: locating the preform on a mold: forming a redundant double-bag arrangement by: disposing an inner bag over the pertorm; sealing the inner bag to the mold to form an inner vacuum chamber defined by the inner bag and the mold; disposing an outer bag over the inner bag; and sealing the outer bag to the mold to form an outer vacuum chamber defined by the outer bag, the inner bag, and the mold; evacuating the vacuum chambers such that the outer vacuum chamber has a pressure greater than a pressure in the inner vacuum chamber such that the inner bag is substantiaily prevented from relaxing behind wave front of resin when resin is infused into the perform; and infusing resin into the preform while substantially maintaining the pressure in the vacuum chambers. 27. The method of claim 26 wherein the evacuating step further comprises evacuating the vacuum chambers such that the bags provide a caul effect with respect to the perform. 28. The method of claim 26 wherein the forming step further comprises forming the redundant double bag arrangement such that if one of the vacuum chambers fails, the other vacuum chamber substantially maintains vacuum integrity. 29. The method of claim 26 wherein tho evacuating stop further comprises evacuating the vacuum chambers such that the outer bag collapses substantially against the inner bag and the inner bag collapses substantially against the preform. 30. A method for infusing a preform with resin, the method comprising: forming redundant vacuum chambers about the perform such that: an inner vacuum chamber is received within an outer vacuum chamber; debulking the preform substantially by evacuating the vacuum chambers such that the outer vacuum chamber has a pressure greater than a pressure in the inner vacuum chamber: if one of the vacuum chambers fails, the other vacuum chamber maintains the preform substantially debulked by maintaining vacuum integrity; and infusing resin into the preform while substantially maintaining the pressures in the vacuum chambers. 31. The method of claim 30 wherein the perform is disposed on a mold, the forming step further comprising forming the redundant vacuum chambers by: sealing the inner bag to the mold to form the inner vacuum chamber defined by the inner bag and the mold; disposing an outer bag over the inner bag; and sealing the outer bag to the mold to form the outer vacuum chamber defined by the outer bag, the inner bag, and the mold. 32. The method of claim 30 wherein the evacuating step further comprises evacuating the vacuum chambers such that the bags provide a caul effect with respect to the perform. 33. The method of claim 30 wherein the evacuating step further comprises evacuating the vacuum chambers such that the outeryacuum chamber collapses substantially against the inner vacuum chamber and such that the inner vacuum chamber collapses substantially against the preform. 34. A method for infusing with resin a preform disposed on a mold, the method comprising: locating the preform on a mold; forming a redundant double-bag arrangement by: disposing an inner bag over the perform; sealing the inner bag to the mold to form an inner vacuum chamber defined by the inner bag and the mold; disposing an outer bag over the inner bag; and sealing the outer bag to the mold to form an outer vacuum chamber defined by the outer bag, the inner bag, and the mold; evacuating the vacuum chambers such that the outer vacuum chamber has a pressure greater than a pressure in the inner vacuum chamber and the bags provide a caul effect with respect to the preform; and infusing resin into the preform when the vacuum chambers are evacuated such that the inner bag is substantially prevented from relaxing behind a wave front of resin when resin is infused into the preform. 35. The method of claim 34 wherein the evacuating ster further comprises evacuating the vacuum chambers such that the outer vacuum chamber has a pressure greater than a pressure in the inner vacuum chamber. 36. The method of claim 34 wherein the forming step further comprises forming the redundant double-bag arrangement such that if one of the vacuum chambers fails, the other vacuum chamber substantially maintains vacuum integrity. 37. The method of claim 34 wherein the evacuating step further comprises evacuating the vacuum chambers such that the outer vacuum chamber collapses substantially against the inner vacuum chamber. 