A method for generation of a control code set for a manufacturing process includes generating a list of sequences of operations with an automatic sequence of operations generator, selecting an optimized sequence of operations from the list of sequences of operations, and utilizing the optimized sequence of operations to generate the control code set.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for generating a control code set for a manufacturing process, comprising: monitoring process information for a plurality of workstations of said manufacturing process, the process information comprising a cycle-time for each workstation; generating a list of sequences of operations with an automatic sequence of operations generator based on said monitored process information; selecting an optimized sequence of operations from said list of sequences of operations; and utilizing said optimized sequence of operations to generate said control code set; wherein the sequences of operations comprises a plurality of work assignments to control the plurality of workstations of said manufacturing process. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said selecting is performed automatically on the basis of programmed prioritized manufacturing concerns. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising automatically monitoring inputs from said manufacturing process for use in said generating, and wherein said utilizing is performed automatically. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said generating is operative to dynamically generate said list of sequences of operations in the event of an unforeseen condition. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically transferring a portion of said process information from equipment associated with said manufacturing process to said automatic sequence of operations generator. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said transferring transfers an entirety of said process information from equipment associated with said manufacturing process to said automatic sequence of operations generator. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said monitoring process information comprises monitoring required equipment utilization levels for said manufacturing process. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said monitoring process information comprises monitoring data related to a plurality of unique products manufactured by said manufacturing process and wherein said generating of a list of sequences of operations dynamically determines a list of sequences of operations to meet said required equipment utilization levels. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said generating a list of sequences of operations dynamically determines unique sequences of operations for a plurality of parallel manufacturing lines. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein said generating a list of sequences of operations idles individual work stations and dynamically rebalances work assignments in the event that said production levels are lower than a predetermined capacity of said manufacturing process. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said monitoring process information comprises an input from an upstream mechanical design process and said method further comprises providing feedback from said automatic sequence of operations generator to said upstream mechanical design process. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein said providing feedback allows trials of experimental sequences of operations and said providing feedback comprises estimated production results for said manufacturing process. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein said providing feedback aids said selecting of said optimized sequence of operations. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein said providing feedback comprises indications to initiate warnings regarding unforeseen conditions. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein said providing feedback comprises operational data including actual production results correlated to a particular sequence of operations. 16. The method of claim 11, further comprising providing feedback from said automatic sequence of operations generator to a downstream mechanical design process. 17. A method for automatic generation of a control code set for a discrete manufacturing process in a motor vehicle manufacturing facility, comprising: monitoring process information for a plurality of workstations of said manufacturing process, the process information comprising a cycle-time for each workstation; transferring said process information to an automatic sequence of operations generator; generating an optimized sequence of operations on the basis of said process information with said automatic sequence of operations generator; and utilizing said optimized sequence of operations to generate said control code set; wherein said optimized sequence of operations comprises a plurality of work assignments to control the plurality of workstations of said manufacturing process. 18. An apparatus for automatic generation of a control code set for a manufacturing process, comprising: a manufacturing line comprising an upstream mechanical design process monitoring process information for a plurality of workstations of said manufacturing process, the process information comprising a cycle-time for each workstation; an automatic sequence of operations generator in communication with said upstream mechanical design process, said automatic sequence of operations generator generating an optimized sequence of operations on the basis of said process information; and a control code generator in communication with said automatic sequence of operations generator, said control code generator generating said control code set; wherein said optimized sequence of operations comprises a plurality of work assignments to control the plurality of work instructions of a manufacturing process. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said automatic sequence of operations generator provides feedback to said upstream mechanical design process. 