An object has a taggant placed in a first portion thereof and has a visible symbol placed on a second portion thereof. When the object is to be identified and authenticated, the taggant is made to radiate with a specific energy signature. The energy signature and at least one image of the symbol are recorded along with a relative location that identifies the first portion of the object. The combination of the energy signature, symbol image and relative location are used to repeatedly identify and authenticate the object.
Claims What is claimed as new and desired to be secured by Letters Patent of the United States is: 1. A method of identifying and authenticating an object, comprising the steps of: placing a taggant in a first portion of an object; placing a symbol on a second portion of the object; causing said taggant to radiate with a specific energy signature; recording said energy signature and at least one image of said symbol to include (i) a first image of said symbol using a first field-of-view that is substantially limited to said symbol, and (ii) a second image of said symbol using a second field-of-view that includes said symbol and said first portion of the object; and recording a relative location of the first portion of the object. 2. A method according to claim 1 wherein said taggant fluoresces. 3. A method according to claim 1 wherein said symbol is a two-dimensional symbol. 4. A method according to claim 1 wherein said step of causing comprises the step of impinging x-rays on the object in the vicinity of the first portion thereof. 5. A method according to claim 1 wherein said steps of recording occur simultaneously. 6. A method according to claim 1 wherein said relative location is relative to at least one of a position on the object and said symbol. 7. A method according to claim 1 further comprising the steps of: converting said energy signature and said image of said symbol to electronic data in a compatible data format; and storing said electronic data and said relative location. 8. A method according to claim 7 wherein said steps of causing, recording and converting occur at a first time, said method further comprising the steps of: repeating said steps of causing, recording and converting at a second time that is subsequent to said first time, wherein a current relative location is recorded and a current electronic data is generated at said second time; and comparing said electronic data and said second time; and comparing said electronic data and said relative location from said first time with said current electronic data and said current relative location from said second time. 9. A method according to claim 8 wherein said steps of causing, recording, converting, storing, repeating and comparing are performed using a single device. 10. A method according to claim 7 wherein said steps of causing, recording, converting and storing are performed using a single device. 11. A method according to claim 1 wherein said steps of causing and recording are performed using a single device. 12. A method of identifying and authenticating an object, comprising the steps of: placing an x-ray fluorescing taggant in a first portion of an object; placing a visible symbol on a second portion of the object; directing x-rays at the object wherein said taggant fluoresces with a specific energy signature; and recording said energy signature, at least one image of said visible symbol, and a relative location of the first portion of the object, wherein said at least one image of said visible symbol includes (i) a first image of said visible symbol in a first field-of-view that is substantially limited to said visible symbol, and (ii) a second image of said visible symbol in a second field-of-view that includes said visible symbol and said first portion of the object. 13. A method according to claim 12 wherein said visible symbol is a two-dimensional symbol. 14. A method according to claim 12 wherein said relative location is relative to at least one of a position on the object and said visible symbol. 15. A method according to claim 12 further comprising the steps of: converting said energy signature and said image of said visible symbol to electronic data in a compatible data format; and storing said electronic data and said relative location. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein said steps of directing, recording and converting occur at a first time, said method further comprising the steps of: repeating said steps of directing, recording and converting at a second time that is subsequent to said first time, wherein a current relative location is recorded and a current electronic data is generated at said second time; and comparing said electronic data and said relative location from said first time with said current electronic data and said current relative location from said second time. 17. A method according to claim 16 wherein said steps of directing, recording, converting, storing, repeating and comparing are performed using a single device. 18. A method according to claim 15 wherein said steps of directing, recording, converting and storing are performed using a single device. 19. A method according to claim 12 wherein said steps of directing and recording are performed using a single device. 20. A system for identifying and authenticating an object having an x-ray fluorescing taggant placed in a first portion of an object and a visible symbol placed on a second portion of the object, said system comprising: first means for impinging x-rays on the object in the vicinity of the first portion thereof wherein said taggant fluoresces with a specific energy signature; second means for recording said energy signature, at least one image of said symbol, and a relative location of the first portion of the object, said second means including (i) a first image recording device for recording a first image of said visible symbol using a first field-of-view that is substantially limited to said visible symbol, and (ii) a second image recording device for recording a second image of said visible symbol using a second field-of-view that includes said visible symbol and said first portion of the object; third means for storing (i) said energy signature and said image of said visible symbol as electronic data in a compatible data format, and (ii) said relative location; and fourth means for comparing said electronic data and said relative location associated with a first point in time with said electronic data and said relative location associated with a second point in time. 21. A system as in claim 20 wherein said first means, said second means, said third means and said fourth means are incorporated into a single device. 22. A system as in claim 21 wherein said single device is a hand-held device. 