Techniques for providing singularity escape and avoidance are disclosed. In one embodiment, a method for providing control moment gyroscope (CMG) attitude control singularity escape includes calculating a Jacobian A of a set of control equations, calculating a measure of closeness to a singularity, and comparing the calculated closeness to a threshold value, when the calculated closeness is less than or equal to the threshold value, recalculating the Jacobian A. Recalculating may include determining a new direction of virtual misalignment of .beta. and .gamma., recalculating the Jacobian inputting the new direction of the virtual misalignment, recalculating the measure of closeness to a singularity, and comparing the measure of closeness to the threshold value. Further, the method may include calculating a gimbal rate command if the of closeness is greater than the threshold value and generating a torque from the gimbal rate command to control the attitude of a satellite.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An control moment gyroscope (CMG) attitude control method providing singularity escape and enabling utilization of the momentum envelope beyond the singularity, comprising: calculating a Jacobian A of a set of control equations of a CMG-based control system; calculating a measure of closeness to a singularity; comparing the measure of closeness to a threshold value, when the calculated measure is less than or equal to the threshold value, recalculating the Jacobian A including: determining a new direction of virtual misalignment of .beta. and .gamma.; recalculating the Jacobian, inputting the new direction of the virtual misalignment; recalculating the measure of closeness to a singularity; and comparing the recalculated measure of closeness to the threshold value; calculating a gimbal rate command if the calculated measure of closeness is greater than the threshold value; and generating a torque from the gimbal rate command to control the attitude of a satellite. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determined new direction of the Virtual misalignment of .beta. and .gamma. results in a displacement of a momentum vector substantially in the direction of the commanded torque. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining closeness to a singularity includes comparing the absolute value of the product of the Jacobian and the transverse of the Jacobian to a predetermined threshold value. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the gimbal rate command {dot over (.delta.)}.sub.c is substantially of the form: {dot over (.delta.)}.sub.c=A.sup.T(AA.sup.T).sup.-1{dot over (h)}.sub.c wherein {dot over (h)}.sub.c is a torque command. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein comparing the measure of closeness to a singularity to the threshold value range is substantially of the form: |AA.sup.T|.ltoreq..epsilon..sub.Threshold. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the Jacobian A is of the form: .times..differential..differential..delta..ident..times..differenti- al..differential..delta. ##EQU00011## wherein .beta..sub.i and .gamma..sub.i are inputs of the Jacobian A. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating a Jacobian includes input Values of .beta..sub.o and .gamma..sub.o. 