A method to determine the shape data of a complex curve surface using reference templates from a copy of the workpiece before it was used and the undamaged portion of the used workpiece so that the damaged portion of the workpiece can be reconstructed. The reference template is scanned in layers, including the portion corresponding to that which has been damaged in the workpiece, as well as adjacent undamaged portions of the used workpiece. Offsets of the reference template and workpiece are generated, based on corresponding portions of the reference template and the used workpiece. A new set of offsets of the damaged portion of the workpiece is then calculated. This calculated set of offsets is then used to calculate further profiles until a complete profile of the damaged portion has been predicted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining shape data for a blade, to effect a repair of the blade, the blade comprising at least a first portion and the shape data to be determined for a damaged portion of the blade, the method comprising: providing shape data of the first portion of the blade; providing shape data of a first template portion and a second template portion of a reference template, the first template portion corresponding to the first portion of the blade, and the second template portion corresponding to the damaged portion of the blade, the second template portion having a shape related to the shape to be determined for the damaged portion of the blade; calculating a first set of offsets, between the shape data of the first and second template portions of the reference template; calculating a second set of offsets, within the shape data of the first portion of the reference template, and a third set of offsets, within the shape data of the first portion of the blade; and using the second and third sets of offsets, together with the first set of offsets and the shape data of the first portion of the blade to determine the shape data of the damaged portion of the blade. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising generating surface shape data for the damaged portion of the blade based on the determined shape data of the damaged portion of the blade. 3. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising using the first, second and third sets of offsets to determine a fourth set of offsets representing the offsets between the shape data of the first and damaged portions of the blade. 4. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the first, second and third sets of offsets are sets of angles and the fourth set of offsets is generated based on the difference between corresponding angles within the first and second sets of offsets being added to the corresponding angles of the third set of offsets. 5. A method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the fourth set of offsets is generated based on the ratio between corresponding offsets within the first and second sets of offsets being the same as that between corresponding offsets between the third and fourth sets of offsets. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the shape data of the blade and reference template comprise shape data on layers of the blade and reference template. 7. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the shape data on layers of the blade and reference template are obtained by scanning the first portion of the blade and the first and second portions of the reference template in layers. 8. A method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the first, second and third sets of offsets each comprise sets of offsets between corresponding points within series of layers within the blade and template. 9. A method as claimed in claim 1,wherein the blade is a turbine blade. 10. A method as claimed in claim 1,wherein the blade is a deformed version of the reference template. 11. A method as claimed in claim 1,wherein the blade has a surface with a complex curve and the shape data on the damaged portion of the blade comprises data on said complex curve. 12. A method as claimed in claim 1,wherein the damaged portion of the blade comprises a missing portion of the blade. 13. A method for determining shape data for a blade, to effect a repair of the blade, the blade comprising at least a first portion and the shape data to be determined for a damaged portion of the blade, the method comprising: providing shape data of the first portion of the blade; calculating a neutral line of the first portion of the blade based on the shape data; providing shape data of a first template portion and a second template portion of a reference template, the first template portion corresponding to the first portion of the blade, and the second template portion corresponding to the damaged portion of the blade; calculating a neutral line of each of the first and second portions of the reference template based on the shape data; determining a neutral line of the damaged portion of the blade, based on the neutral lines of the first and second portions of the reference template and of the first portion of the blade; and determining the positions of points on the surface of the damaged portion of the blade, based on the neutral line of the damaged portion of the blade and points on the surfaces of the first portion of the blade. 14. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein determining the positions of points on the surface of the damaged portion of the blade is further based on points on the surfaces of the first and second portions of the reference template. 15. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the points on the surface of the damaged portion of the blade correspond to selected points on the neutral line of the damaged portion of the blade, the method further comprising; for each selected point on the neutral line of the damaged portion of the blade, determining the position of the corresponding point on the surface of the damaged portion of the blade based on ratios of distances from the neutral line and the surface for corresponding neutral line points in the first portion of the blade. 16. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the blade is a turbine blade. 17. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the blade is a deformed version of the reference template. 18. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the blade has a surface with a complex curve and the shape data on the damaged portion of the blade comprises data on said complex curve. 