Energy harvesting systems are described in which electroactive materials, such as dielectric elastomers, may be utilized to absorb the shocks, bumps, and vibrations from the road or path to generate energy which is captured and stored for use in the vehicle to provide additional power for any number of uses. Other devices and systems, such as household appliances which dissipate vibrational energy, may also incorporate any number of the dielectric elastomer generators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An energy generating support member, comprising: a first chamber; a second chamber operatively movable relative to the first chamber; one or more layers of a dielectric elastomer positioned within the second chamber; and, a compression member attached to the first chamber and in communication with the one or more layers in the second chamber, wherein movement between the first chamber and second chamber urges the compression member to change a pressure imparted upon or against the one or more layers such that the one or more layers generate an electric discharge in response to the change in pressure. 2. The member of claim 1 wherein the support member comprises a shock absorber. 3. The member of claim 1 wherein the second chamber comprises an attachment for coupling to an axle. 4. The member of claim 1 wherein the one or more layers of dielectric elastomers are layered in a stacked arrangement within the second chamber. 5. The member of claim 1 wherein the one or more layers of dielectric elastomers are layered about an inner wall of the second chamber. 6. The member of claim 1 further comprising a viscous fluid contained within the second chamber in communication with the one or more layers such that movement by the compression member imparts the change in pressure imparted upon or against the one or more layers by altering the pressure within the fluid. 7. The member of claim 1 further comprising one or more biasing elements positioned within the second chamber and coupled to the compression member. 8. The member of claim 1 comprising one or more wires electrically coupled to the one or more layers. 9. The member of claim 1 further comprising a step-up transformer in electrical communication with the support member. 10. The member of claim 1 further comprising a controller in communication with the support member. 11. The member of claim 1 further comprising a battery in communication with the support member. 12. The member of claim 1 further comprising a vehicle coupled to the support member. 13. The member of claim 12 wherein an engine of the vehicle is coupled to the support member. 14. The member of claim 1 wherein the first chamber comprises an attachment for coupling to is frame. 15. The member of claim 14 wherein the support member comprises a module sized for positioning between the attachment and the frame. 16. The member of claim 1 further comprising an appliance coupled to the support member. 17. The member of claim 16 wherein the support member is coupled to a motor or frame of the appliance. 18. A method of generating energy, comprising: receiving one or more vibrations in a vehicle; imparting a movement between a first chamber and a second chamber operatively movable relative to the first chamber in response to the one or more vibrations; urging a compression member attached to the first chamber to change a pressure imparted upon or against one or more layers of a dielectric elastomer positioned within the second chamber; and, generating art electric discharge from the one or more layers in response to the change in pressure. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein receiving comprises receiving the one or more vibrations in response to moving the vehicle upon a road surface. 20. The method of claim 18 wherein receiving comprises receiving the one or more vibrations in response to vibrations received from an engine coupled to the vehicle. 21. The method of claim 18 wherein receiving comprises receiving the one or more vibrations in response to vibrations received from a frame of the vehicle. 22. The method of claim 18 wherein urging a compression member comprises urging a plunger upon or against the one or more layers. 23. The method of claim 18 wherein urging a compression member comprises urging a plunger within a volume of fluid contained within the second chamber such that movement of the plunger imparts the change in pressure in the fluid upon or against the one or more layers. 24. The method of claim 18 further comprising applying a bias voltage of 0.1 kV to 10 kV to the one or more layers prior to generating an electric discharge. 25. The method of claim 18 further comprising conducting the electric discharge from the one or more layers to a battery. 26. The method of claim 25 further comprising controlling the one or more layers via a controller. 27. An energy generating support mount, comprising: a housing having a first surface coupled to a vibrating mass; and, one or more layers of a dielectric elastomer positioned within the housing, wherein vibrational movement of the mass against the first surface changes a pressure imparted upon or against the one or more layers such that the one or more layers generate an electric discharge in response to the change in pressure, and wherein the support mount comprises a module sized for positioning between the mass and a frame. 28. The mount of claim 27 wherein the first surface comprises an attachment for coupling to the mass. 29. The mount of claim 27 wherein the housing comprises a flexible covering incorporating the one or more layers. 30. The mount of claim 27 further comprising a viscous fluid contained within the housing in communication with the one or more layers such that movement of the mass imparts the change in pressure imparted upon or against the one or more layers by altering the pressure within the fluid. 31. The mount of claim 27 wherein the one or more layers of dielectric elastomer are layered in a stacked arrangement within the housing. 32. The mount of claim 27 comprising one or more wires electrically coupled to the one or more layers. 33. The mount of claim 27 further comprising a step-up transformer in electrical communication with the support mount. 34. The mount of claim 27 further comprising a controller in communication with the support mount. 35. The mount of claim 27 further comprising a battery in communication with the support mount. 36. The mount of claim 27 further comprising a vehicle coupled to the support mount. 37. The mount of claim 27 further comprising an appliance coupled to the support mount. 38. The member of claim 37 wherein the support mount is coupled to a motor or frame of the appliance. 39. A method of generating energy, comprising: securing a mass to one or more support mounts within a vehicle; imparting a movement to the mass in response to one or more vibrations in response to moving the vehicle upon a road surface such that the mass imparts a change in pressure upon or against a first surface of each of the one or more support mounts; and, generating an electric discharge from one or more layers of a dielectric elastomer positioned within each of the one or more support mounts in response to the change in pressure. 40. The method of claim 39 wherein securing a mass comprises securing a battery to the one or more support mounts within the vehicle. 41. The method of claim 39 wherein securing a mass comprises securing a shock absorber to a frame of the vehicle such that the mounts are positioned therebetween. 42. The method of claim 39 further comprising conducting the electric discharge from the one or more layers to a battery. 43. The method of claim 39 further comprising controlling the one or more layers via a controller. 44. The method of claim 39 further comprising applying a bias voltage of 0.1 to 10 kV to the one or more layers prior to generating an electric discharge. 45. The method of claim 39 wherein securing a mass comprises securing an engine to the one or more support mounts against a frame of the vehicle. 46. The method of claim 45 wherein imparting comprises imparting the movement from the one or more vibrations in response to engine operation. 47. A method of generating energy, comprising: securing a mass comprising a rotatable drum to one or more support mounts within an appliance; imparting a movement to the mass in response to one or more vibrations such that the mass imparts a change in pressure upon or against a first surface of each of the one or more support mounts; and, generating an electric discharge from one or more layers of a dielectric elastomer positioned within each of the one or more support mounts in response to the change in pressure. 48. The method of claim 47 further comprising conducting the electric discharge from the one or more layers to a battery. 49. The method of claim 47 further comprising controlling the one or more layers via a controller. 50. The method of claim 47 further comprising applying a bias voltage of 0.1 kV to 10 kV to the one or more layers prior to generating an electric discharge. 51. The method of claim 47 wherein imparting comprises imparting the movement from the one or more vibrations in response to rotating the drum within the appliance. 52. The method of claim 51 wherein securing a mass comprises securing a motor or frame to the one or more support mounts. 