An apparatus for dispensing substances, specifically powders and liquids, into a container, is designed as a compact module containing a weighing device with a load receiver, a holder device which is attached to the load receiver and serves to receive and loosely hold the container while the substances are dispensed into the container, and a liquid-dispensing device for dispensing a liquid into the container while the latter is seated in the holder device. The apparatus includes a clamping device for firmly gripping and immobilizing the container, so that a capping device that is not part of the apparatus can put a cap on the container or remove the cap from the container while the latter is seated in the holder device.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Dispensing apparatus for dispensing a substance, into a container, said apparatus comprising: a weighing device with a load receiver; a holder device which is attached to the load receiver and serves to receive a container and loosely hold the container while a substance is dispensed into the container; a dispensing device for dispensing said substance into the container while the container is seated in the holder device; and a clamping device for firmly gripping and immobilizing the container to receive a cap on the container or to remove the cap from the container while the container is seated in the holder device, the apparatus being configured as a compact module with a housing inside of which at least the weighing device, the clamping device and the holder device are arranged in such a manner that only a top of the holder device and a top portion of a container seated in the holder device protrude through a window opening in a top surface of the housing; wherein the holder device has lateral window openings and the clamping device has jaws that contact and grip the container through said lateral window openings while a capping device or a robot arm puts the cap on the container or removes the cap from the container. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus comprises: a suction device for drawing off vapors given off by substances in the container, while the container is seated in the holder device. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus comprises: a gas-delivery device for delivering an inert gas to the container, while the container is seated in the holder device. 4. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said dispensing device is a liquid-dispensing device arranged in a dispenser arm and comprises: a liquid-dispensing tip connected to a liquid-supply conduit which, in turn, is connected to a source of liquid, wherein the dispenser arm is movable vertically up and down as well as rotatable about a vertical axis, between a working position where the liquid-dispensing tip is lowered into the container and a parked position where the dispenser arm is moved away to allow access to the container from above. 5. Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein said gas delivery device is arranged in a dispenser arm and comprises: a gas-delivery orifice connected to a gas supply conduit which, in turn, is connected to a source of inert gas, and wherein the dispenser arm is movable vertically up and down as well as rotatable about a vertical axis, between a working position where the gas-delivery orifice is lowered into the container and a parked position where the arm is moved away to allow access to the container from above. 6. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein said apparatus is mounted by itself on a freestanding pedestal column in order to minimize an influence of mechanical shocks and vibrations on the weighing device. 7. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein one or more of the devices of the apparatus are controllable by a control device. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1, in combination with a handling device from which the holder device receives a container, wherein said handling device comprises: a robot arm of a laboratory robot operable to bring said container to the apparatus, place the container into the holder device, and remove the container from the holder device. 9. Apparatus according to claim 1, in combination with a capping device which puts a cap on a container, wherein said capping device comprises: a robot arm of a laboratory robot operable to put the cap on the container and/or remove the cap from the container (9) while the container is seated in the holder device. 10. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the holder device has a resilient attachment to the load receiver in order to protect the weighing device from overloads and harmful forces caused by the capping and/or uncapping of the container while the container is seated in the holder device. 11. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus is adapted to cooperate with a powder-dispensing module that delivers powder to the container while the container is seated in the holder device. 12. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus comprises an ionizing device for ionizing the atmosphere surrounding the container while the container is seated in the holder device in order to prevent a build-up of electrostatic charges on the container. 13. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus comprises a barcode reader for reading a barcode that is affixed to the container. 14. Automated laboratory system wherein the system includes a dispensing apparatus for dispensing a substance, into a container, said apparatus comprising: a weighing device with a load receiver; a holder device which is attached to the load receiver and serves to receive a container and loosely hold the container while a substance is dispensed into the container; a dispensing device for dispensing said substances into the container while the container is seated in the holder device; and a clamping device for firmly gripping and immobilizing the container to receive a cap on the container or to remove the cap from the container while the container is seated in the holder device, the apparatus being configured as a compact module with a housing inside of which at least the weighing device, the clamping device and the holder device are arranged in such a manner that only a top of the holder device and a top portion of a container seated in the holder device protrude through a window opening in a top surface of the housing; wherein the holder device has lateral window openings and the clamping device has jaws that contact and grip the container through said lateral window openings while a capping device or a robot arm puts the cap on the container or removes the cap from the container. 15. Automated laboratory system according to claim 14, wherein the dispensing apparatus, in combination with a handling device, during operation, performs the functions of: controlling the handling device to pick up a container from a storage rack and place the container into a holder device that is supported on a load receiver of a weighing device; moving the dispensing device, formed as a liquid-dispensing device or a powder-delivery device, to a position above the container, and delivering a liquid or powder into the container either by volume as determined by the delivery device, or by weight as determined by the dispensing device; controlling a capping device to place a cap on the container; and controlling the handling device to remove the container from the holder device, wherein the capping device seals the container by pushing or screwing the cap onto the container while the container is still seated in the holder device, and wherein during a capping operation the container is immobilized and held in a firm grip by a clamping device. 16. Apparatus according to claim 1, for dispensing powders and/or liquids into a test tube that is closeable with a cap. 17. Apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the apparatus comprises: a gas-delivery device for delivering an inert gas to the container, while the container is seated in the holder device. 18. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein said dispensing device is a liquid-dispensing device arranged in a dispenser arm and comprises: a liquid-dispensing tip connected to a liquid-supply conduit which, in turn, is connected to a source of liquid, wherein the dispenser arm is movable vertically up and down as well as rotatable about a vertical axis, between a working position where the liquid-dispensing tip is lowered into the container and a parked position where the dispenser arm is moved away to allow access to the container from above. 19. Apparatus according to claim 18, wherein said apparatus is mounted by itself on a freestanding pedestal column in order to minimize an influence of mechanical shocks and vibrations on the weighing device. 20. Apparatus according to claim 19, in combination with a handling device from which the holder device receives a container, wherein said handling device comprises: a robot arm of a laboratory robot operable to bring said container to the apparatus, place the container into the holder device, and remove the container from the holder device. 21. Apparatus according to claim 20, in combination with a capping device which puts a cap on a container, wherein said capping device comprises: a robot arm of a laboratory robot operable to put the cap on the container and/or remove the cap from the container while the container is seated in the holder device. 22. Apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the holder device has lateral window openings and the clamping device has jaws that contact and grip the container through said lateral window openings while the capping device or a robot arm puts the cap on the container or removes the cap from the container. 23. Apparatus according to claim 22, wherein the holder device has a resilient attachment to the load receiver in order to protect the weighing device from overloads and harmful forces caused by the capping and/or uncapping of the container while the container is seated in the holder device. 24. Apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the apparatus comprises an ionizing device for ionizing the atmosphere surrounding the container while the container is seated in the holder device in order to prevent a build-up of electrostatic charges on the container. 25. Apparatus according to claim 24, wherein the apparatus comprises a barcode reader for reading a barcode that is affixed to the container. 