A method and apparatus for testing a plurality of electronic devices formed on a large area substrate is described. In one embodiment, the apparatus performs a test on the substrate in one linear axis in at least one chamber that is slightly wider than a dimension of the substrate to be tested. Clean room space and process time is minimized due to the smaller dimensions and volume of the system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for testing electronic devices on a large area substrate, comprising: a movable substrate support having an end effector movably disposed therein; and one or more testing columns above the substrate support, each testing column having an optical axis and a test area, wherein the substrate support is movable in a single axis and the single axis is orthogonal to the optical axis of the one or more testing columns, and wherein a collective test area of the testing columns is configured to cover an entire width or an entire length of the substrate such that the testing columns are capable of testing the entire substrate as the substrate support is moved through the apparatus along the single axis. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the substrate support is housed in a testing chamber and the testing chamber is coupled to a vacuum pump. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more testing columns comprise an electron beam column. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the test area of each electron beam column is about 230 mm to about 270 mm in a first direction, and about 340 mm to about 380 mm in a direction orthogonal to the first direction. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the test area of each electron beam column is about 325 mm to about 375 mm in a first direction, and about 240 mm to about 290 mm in a direction orthogonal to the first direction. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more testing columns includes six or more testing columns. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the six or more testing columns are in a substantially straight line above the substrate support. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end effector has at least two fingers adapted to support the large area substrate. 9. An apparatus for testing electronic devices located on a large area substrate, comprising: a testing platform having a support surface for supporting a large area substrate; and a plurality of testing columns coupled to the testing platform, each of the plurality of testing columns having an optical axis within a test area, wherein the testing platform is movable in a linear direction relative to the optical axis and the plurality of testing columns have a collective test area sufficient to test an entire width or an entire length of the substrate such that the testing columns are capable of testing the entire substrate as the substrate is moved in the linear direction through the apparatus. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the testing platform comprises: a substrate support having an end effector. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the testing platform is within a testing chamber and the testing chamber is coupled to a vacuum pump. 12. A system for testing electronic devices located on a large area substrate, comprising: a chamber; a substrate support within the chamber, the substrate support sized to receive the substrate; and a plurality of electron beam testing devices coupled to an upper surface of the chamber, each of the plurality of testing devices having a test area, wherein the plurality of testing devices are spaced to form a collective test area sufficient to test an entire length or an entire width of the substrate such that the testing devices are capable of testing the entire substrate as the substrate support is moved in a single direction through the system. 13. The system of claim 12, wherein each of the plurality of testing devices has an optical axis and the substrate support is movable in a direction orthogonal to the optical axis. 14. The system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of testing devices include at least six electron beam columns. 15. The system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of testing devices are in a substantially straight line. 16. The system of claim 12, wherein the substrate support comprises: an end effector. 17. The system of claim 12, wherein the test area of each of the plurality of testing devices is about 230 mm to about 270 mm in the Y direction, and about 340 mm to about 380 mm in the X direction. 18. The system of claim 12, wherein the test area of each of the plurality of testing devices is about 325 mm to about 375 mm in the Y direction, and about 240 mm to about 290 mm in the X direction. 19. A method for testing a plurality of electronic devices on a large area substrate, comprising: providing a substrate support disposed below a plurality of electron beam testing devices; positioning the substrate having the plurality of electronic devices located thereon on the substrate support; providing a test area on the substrate from the plurality of testing devices; and moving the substrate support in a single directional axis relative to the plurality of testing devices, wherein the test area is sufficient to test an entire length or an entire width of the substrate such that the testing devices are capable of testing the entire substrate as the substrate passes through the test area in the single directional axis. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the test area is between about 1950 mm to about 2250 mm in a first direction and about 240 mm to about 290 mm in a direction orthogonal to the first direction. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the test area is between about 1920 mm to about 2320 mm in a first direction and about 325 mm to about 375 mm in a direction orthogonal to the first direction. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the electronic devices are thin film transistors. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein each of the plurality of testing devices are electron beam columns. 24. The method of claim 19, wherein the moving step includes incrementally moving the substrate in the single directional axis. 25. A system for testing electronic devices located on a large area substrate, comprising: a movable substrate support having a support surface for supporting the large area substrate; and a plurality of electron beam testing columns spanning an entire width of the large area substrate, wherein the large area substrate is movable in a single direction along a length thereof such that the testing columns are capable of testing the entire substrate as the substrate support is moved through the system in the single direction. 