A method of drying a printed media web in a printing system, the method including the steps of: passing a media web along a media path from a media cartridge, past a printhead, and over an opening; using at least one fan to force air past an heating element provided within a first chamber located on one side of the opening, the first chamber adapted to direct the heated air through the opening into a second drying chamber located on the other side of the opening; and, driving the printed media web along the media path such that the printed media web extends from the media path, via the opening, into the second drying chamber which receives subsequent portions of the printed media web as the media web is driven along the media path.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of drying a printed media web in a printing system, the method including the steps of: feeding a media web along a media path from a media cartridge, past a stationary printhead, and over an opening; using at least one fan to force air past an heating element provided within a first chamber located on one side of the opening, the first chamber adapted to direct the heated air through the opening into a second drying chamber located on the other side of the opening; and, driving the printed media web along the media path so that the printed media web extends from the media path, via the opening, as a loop which hangs from opposite sides of the opening into the second drying chamber. 2. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the heating element is controlled by a thermal sensor. 3. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein more than one heating element is provided. 4. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the heating element extends substantially across the width of the first chamber. 5. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one fan is a blower or a centrifugal fan. 6. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first chamber tapers towards the opening. 7. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein each fan is associated with a circulation duct. 8. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein a rotatable door covers the opening. 9. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 8, wherein the rotatable door is operated by a winding motor. 10. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the second chamber tapers towards the opening. 11. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printed media web is passed into the second chamber as a loose suspended loop. 12. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one circulation duct extends from a base region of the second chamber to one side of the at least one fan. 13. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one fan is provided external to the first chamber. 14. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one fan is substantially encased by an intake duct. 15. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the intake duct receives at least a portion of air-flow from the at least one circulation duct. 16. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printing system prints a wallpaper pattern on to a media web to produce wallpaper. 17. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, adapted for use with a drying system for use in a printing system, the drying system comprising: the heating element provided within the first chamber; at least one fan positioned to force air past the heating element; the first chamber adapted to direct the heated air through the opening into the second drying chamber; the second drying chamber receiving subsequent portions of the printed media web passed into the second drying chamber through the opening; and, at least one circulation duct provided to transfer at least a portion of the heated air from the second drying chamber to near the at least one fan. 18. The method of drying a printed media web as claimed in claim 1, wherein the printed media web is produced by a printer, the printer comprising: a micro-electro-mechanical printhead extending at least the width of the media web; drive means to drive the media web past the printhead; at least one processor to receive and process a selected print pattern and to control printing of the print pattern, by the printhead, on the media web; the printhead including of a plurality of printhead tiles arranged along the length of the printhead; a fluid channel member adjacent the printhead; each printhead tile including a series of micro-electro-mechanical nozzle arrangements, each nozzle arrangement in fluid communication with the fluid channel member; and, each nozzle arrangement comprising: a nozzle chamber for holding fluid; a lever arm for forcing at least part of the fluid from the nozzle chamber; an actuator beam for distorting the lever arm; and, at least one electrode for receiving an electrical current that heats and expands the actuator beam. 