A hook unit for use with a clamp in a manufacturing environment. The hook unit includes a base and a sliding member arranged therein. A hook extends through the base and sliding member. The hook and sliding member form a barrier for the clamp.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A hook unit for use in manufacturing, said hook unit including: a base having a slot; a hook extending through said base, said hook having a body and an arm extending from the body, said arm including a generally uniformed size; a sliding member slidably arranged in said slot, said hook arm extending through an orifice in said sliding member, a generally precise fit being achieved between said arm and orifice for prohibiting contaminants from entering said hook unit, said orifice becoming larger as said arm extends through said sliding member providing additional area for receiving a portion of said hook body below a top surface of said sliding member while said hook arm passes through the orifice in said top surface of said sliding member and said hook body is maintained below said top surface wherein said orifice is in said sliding member allowing said orifice to translate reciprocally back and forth in a linear path in said slot moving said orifice with said sliding member. 2. The hook unit of claim 1 wherein said slot is a T-slot. 3. The hook unit of claim 1 wherein said base having two pieces. 4. The hook unit of claim 1 wherein said slot extends an entire length of said base. 5. The hook unit of claim 1 wherein said base having an orifice therein. 6. The hook unit of claim 5 wherein said orifice having said angled surface of said base extending therefrom. 7. The hook unit of claim 5 wherein said hook extending through said orifice. 8. The hook unit of claim 1 wherein said base having a plurality of fastening orifices therethrough. 9. The hook unit of claim 1 wherein said hook having a body, an arm, and a generally L-shaped orifice through said body. 10. The hook unit of claim 1 wherein said hook and said sliding member create a barrier. 11. The hook unit of claim 1 wherein said sliding member generally having a T-shaped cross section. 12. The hook unit of claim 1 wherein said sliding member orifice having angled surfaces extending therefrom through said sliding member. 13. The hook unit of claim 12 wherein said hook moves within said orifice in an in and out motion. 14. A clamp for use in manufacturing, said clamp including: a body; a hook unit base secured to said body on an end thereof, said hook unit base having an orifice therethrough and a T-slot therein; a T-shaped member slidingly arranged within said T-slot, said T-shaped member having an orifice therethrough; and a hook arranged within said orifice of said T-shaped member, said hook having a body and an arm extending from the body, said arm including a generally uniformed size, said orifice at a top surface of said T-shaped member being form fitted around said hook arm, and said orifice of said hook unit base, said hook and said T-shaped member form a barrier to prevent contaminants from entering the clamp, and said T-shaped member orifice becoming larger as said arm extends through said T-shaped member providing additional area for receiving a portion of said hook below said top surface of said T-shaped member while said hook arm passes through the orifice in said top surface of said T-shaped member wherein said orifice is in said T-shaped member allowing said orifice to translate reciprocally back and forth in a linear path in said slot moving said orifice with said T-shaped member. 15. The clamp of claim 14 wherein said base having two pieces and said T-slot extends along an entire length thereof, said T-shaped member having two pieces. 16. The clamp of claim 14 wherein said hook having a generally L-shaped orifice therethrough and an angled surface thereon. 17. The clamp of claim 14 wherein said base angled cut out portions defined by an angled surface and a straight surface extending from one end of said angled surface. 18. The clamp of claim 14 wherein said T-shaped member slides along said T-slot, and said hook moves with respect to a surface of said T-shaped member when the clamp moves from a clamped to unclamped position or vice versa. 19. The clamp of claim 14 wherein said base having a plurality of fastening orifices therethrough. 