An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations, or modules, in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in reaction receptacles. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a specimen sample, incubating the sample at prescribed temperatures for prescribed periods, preforming an analyte isolation procedure, and ascertaining the presence of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the reaction receptacles from one station to the next. The analyzer further includes devices for carrying a plurality of specimen tubes and disposable pipette tips in a machine-accessible manner, a device for agitating containers of target capture reagents comprising suspensions of solid support material and for presenting the containers for machine access thereto, and a device for holding containers of reagents in a temperature controlled environment and presenting the containers for machine access thereto. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte. The process is performed by automatically moving each of a plurality of reaction receptacles containing a solid support material and a fluid sample between stations for incubating the contents of the reaction receptacle and for separating the target analyte bound to the solid support from the fluid sample. An amplification reagent is added to the separated analyte after the analyte separation step and before a final incubation step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for agitating the contents of at least one container, said system comprising: a turntable structure constructed and arranged to be rotatable about a first axis of rotation; one or more container holders, each container holder being constructed and arranged to hold a container therein; a container holder mounting assembly associated with each container holder, said container holder mounting assembly being constructed and arranged to mount said associated container holder to said turntable structure and to permit said associated container holder to rotate about a second axis of rotation that is generally parallel to and spaced from said first axis of rotation, wherein said first and second axes of rotation have vertical orientations; rotational motion coupling elements operatively associated with said turntable structure and each container holder mounting assembly and constructed and arranged to cause each container holder to rotate about said second axis of rotation as said turntable structure rotates about said first axis of rotation; one or more containers, each container being operationally positioned with respect to one of said container holders and containing a solid support material in a fluid medium, wherein each container consists of a cylindrical inner wall and a bottom wall; and a computer controller programmed to control the rotational movement of said turntable structure, wherein the movement of each container is limited to the rotations of said turntable structure and said container holder about their respective axes of rotation, and whereby the corresponding rotational movement of each container holder agitates the contents of each associated container to thereby maintain the solid support material of each associated container in suspension in said fluid medium. 2. The system of claim 1, comprising four container holders spaced 90 degrees from each other. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said turntable structure is in the form of a right angle cross comprising four 90 degree-spaced arms extending radially from said first axis of rotation. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein three of said four arms are of generally the same length and a fourth arm is longer than the other three arms. 5. The system of claim 3, further comprising four container holders, each of said container holders being mounted on an associated one of said arms of said turntable structure, and all of said container holders being mounted on said turntable structure at an equal radial distance from said first axis of rotation. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein each container holder comprises: a generally cylindrical member having an open top end for receiving and holding a container; and a container retainer spring spanning a lateral slot formed in a side portion of said cylindrical member for holding the container within said cylindrical member. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said container holder mounting assembly comprises: a vertical shaft rotatably mounted in said turntable structure; and a shaft block assembly adapted for mounting said cylindrical member to said vertical shaft, said shaft block assembly comprising: a block structure having curved end portions which conform to an inside wall of said cylindrical member, a generally circular aperture for receiving said vertical shaft, a first slot extending from said aperture to an end of said block structure, and a second slot extending from an edge of said block structure generally perpendicularly to said first slot so as to define a cantilevered arm; and a screw extending through a through-hole formed laterally through said block structure, across said first slot, and into an aligned, threaded hole formed laterally through said cantilevered arm so that as said screw is tightened, said cantilevered arm deflects in such a manner as to tighten said aperture around said vertical shaft. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein said rotational motion coupling elements comprise: a planetary gear operatively associated with each container holder so as to be rotatable therewith; and a sun gear fixed with respect to said turntable structure, each planetary gear being operatively engaged with said sun gear so that rotation of said turntable structure about said first axis of rotation causes a corresponding rotation of each planetary gear and associated container holder about said second axis of rotation. 9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a bar code scanner mounted adjacent said turntable structure and constructed and arranged to scan bar code information on a container carried in said container holder. 10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a sensor system constructed and arranged to determine the rotational position of said turntable structure. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said sensor system comprises: four optical sensors fixed with respect to said turntable structure and mounted adjacent thereto at 90 degree intervals; and a sensor tab fixed to said turntable structure and positioned so as to activate each of said four optical sensors in sequence during rotation of said turntable structure. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein said tab is fixed to said turntable structure at a location corresponding to one of said container holders. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein said turntable structure is in the form of a right angle cross comprising four 90 degree-spaced arms extending radially from said first axis of rotation, and said sensor tab extends from a one of said four arms. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising an extension connected to the end of one of said four arms, making said arm to which said extension is attached longer than the other three arms, wherein said sensor tab is connected to said extension. 15. The system of claim 1, wherein a fluid-holding portion of each container is generally cylindrical. 16. The system of claim 1, wherein said computer controller is further configured to selectively stop the rotation of said turntable structure so as to operatively position a selected one of said container holders with respect to a substance transfer mechanism, so the substance transfer mechanism can access the container carried in the selected container holder and withdraw an amount of solid support material in a fluid medium from said container. 