The present invention relates to isolated polypeptides having cellulolytic enhancing activity and isolated nucleic acids encoding the polypeptides. The invention also relates to nucleic acid constructs, vectors, and host cells comprising the nucleic acids as well as methods for producing and using the polypeptides.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An isolated polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide, selected from the group consisting of: (a) a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide and comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to the mature polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2; (b) a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide, wherein the polynucleotide hybridizes under high stringency conditions with (i) the nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO: 1, or (ii) a full length complement strand of (i), wherein high stringency conditions are defined as prehybridization and hybridization at 42.degree. C. in 5.times.SSPE, 0.3% SDS, 200 ug/ml sheared and denatured salmon sperm DNA, and 50% formamide and a wash three times each for 15 minutes using 2.times.SSC, 0.2% SDS at 65.degree. C.; and (c) a polynucleotide encoding a polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide, wherein the polynucleotide comprises a nucleotide sequence having at least 95% identity to the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. 2. The polynucleotide of claim 1, which encodes a polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide and compnsing an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to the mature polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2. 3. The polynucleotide of claim 1, which encodes a polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide and comprising an amino acid sequence having at least 97% identity to the mature polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2. 4. The polynucleotide of claim 1, which encodes a polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide and comprising or consisting of the mature polypeptide of SEQ LD NO: 2; or a fragment thereof having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide. 5. The polynucleotide of claim 4, which encodes a polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide and comprising or consisting of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. 6. The polynucleotide of claim 4, which encodes a polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide and comprising or consisting of the mature polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2. 7. The polynucleotide of claim 1, which comprises a nucleotide sequence having at least 95% identity to the mature polypeptide coding sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. 8. The polynucleotide of claim 1, which comprises a nucleotide sequence having at least 97% identity to the mature polypeptide coding sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. 9. The polynucleotide of claim 1, which comprises or consists of the mature polypeptide coding sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1; or a subsequence thereof that encodes a polpeptide fragment having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide. 10. The polynucleotide of claim 9, which comprises or consists of the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. 11. The polynucleotide of claim 9, which comprises or consists of the mature polypeptide coding sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1. 12. The polynucleotide of claim 1, which is contained in plasmid pDZA2-7 which is contained in E. coli NRRL B-30704. 13. The polynucleotide of claim 1, wherein the mature polypeptide is amino acids 23 to 250 of SEQ ID NO: 2. 14. The polynucleotide of claim 1, wherein the mature polypeptide coding sequence is nucleotides 67 to 796 of SEQ ID NO: 1. 15. A nucleic acid construct comprising the polynucleotide of claim 1 operably linked to one or more control sequences that direct the production of the polypeptide in a recombinant expression host. 16. A recombinant expression vector comprising the nucleic acid construct of claim 15. 17. A recombinant host cell comprising the nucleic acid construct of claim 15. 18. A method for producing a polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide, comprising (a) cultivating the host cell of claim 17 under conditions conducive for production of the polypeptide; and (b) recovering the polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide. 19. The isolated polynucleotide of claim 1, obtained by (a) hybridizing a population of DNA under high stringency conditions with (i) the nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO: 1, (ii), or a full length complemen strand of (i), wherein high stringency conditions are defined as prehybridization and hybridization at 42.degree. C. in 5.times.SSPE, 0.3% SDS, 200 ug/ml sheared and denatured salmon sperm DNA, and 50% formamide and a wash three times each for 15 minutes using 2.times.SSC, 0.2% SDS at 65.degree. C.; and (b) isolating the hybridizing polynucleotide, which encodes a polypeptide having the property of enhancing cellulolytic activity of a cellulolytic polypeptide. 20. The polynudeotide of claim 19, wherein the mature polypeptide coding sequence is nucleotides 67 to 796 of SEQ ID NO: 1. 