An improved particle beam treatment system optionally includes exchangeable particle beam nozzles. These particle beam nozzles may be automatically moved from a storage location to a particle beam path or between particle beam paths for use in medical applications. Movement may be achieved using a conveyance, gantry, rail system, or the like. The improved particle beam treatment system optionally also includes more than two alternative particle beam paths. These alternative particle beam paths may be directed to a patient from a variety of different angles and in different planes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system comprising: a treatment station for particle beam treatment of a patient; a particle accelerator configured to generate a particle beam; three or more particle beam paths through which the particle beam can be delivered to the patient at the treatment station, the three or more particle beam paths including at least two particle beam paths significantly greater than or less than 90 degrees apart; and a transport system configured to automatically move a particle beam nozzle from a nozzle storage to one of the three or more particle beam paths. 2. The system of claim l, wherein the three or more particle beam paths are configured such that a first angle exists between a first pair of the three of more particle beam paths and a second different angle exists between a second pair of the three or more particle beam paths. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the three or more particle beam paths are configured such that a first angle exists between a first pair of the three or more particle beam paths and a second different angle exists between a second pair of the three or more particle beam paths. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the transport system is further configured to automatically move the particle beam nozzle from one of the three or more particle beam paths to an other of the three or more particle beam paths. 5. The system of claim 1, further including a particle transparent vacuum seal along at least one of the three or more particle beam paths, and a shutter disposed to protect the particle transparent vacuum seal when a particle beam nozzle is absent from the at least one of the three or more particle beam paths. 6. The system of claim 1, further including a processing unit configured to replace a first particle beam nozzle located along one of the three or more particle beam paths with a second particle beam nozzle. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the three or more particle beam paths is configured to deliver the particle beam to the patient from underneath the patient. 8. A system comprising: a treatment station for particle beam treatment of a patient; a particle accelerator configured to generate a particle beam for treatment of the patient; and three or more particle beam paths through which the particle beam can be delivered to the patient at the treatment station, the three or more particle beam paths configured such that a first particle beam path is located outside of a plane including a second particle beam path and a third particle beam path. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the three or more particle beam paths include two particle beam paths that are oriented significantly greater than 90 degrees apart. 10. The system of claim 8, further including a transport system configured to automatically move a particle beam nozzle between a first of the three or more particle beam paths and a second of the three or more particle beam paths. 11. The system of claim 8, further including a particle transparent vacuum seal along at least one of the three or more particle beam paths, and a shutter disposed to protect the particle transparent vacuum seal when a particle beam nozzle is absent from the at least one of the three or more particle beam paths. 12. The system of claim 8, further including a processing unit configured to replace a first particle beam nozzle located along one of the three or more particle beam paths with a second particle beam nozzle. 13. The system of claim 8, wherein the treatment station includes an opening configured to receive the particle beam from underneath the patient. 14. A method of treating a patient, the method comprising: generating a particle beam of high-energy particles; directing the particle beam of high-energy particles along a first beam path; treating the patient using the particle beam of high-energy particles directed along the first particle beam path; selecting a second particle beam path from among a plurality of alternative particle beam paths different from the first particle beam path, the first particle beam path lying outside of a plane defined by two of the plurality of alternative particle beam paths; and directing the particle beam of high-energy particles along the second particle beam path. 15. The method of claim 14, further including selecting a third particle beam path, directing the particle beam of high energy particles along the third particle beam path, and treating the patient using the particle beam of high energy particles directed along the third particle beam path. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of the plurality of alternative particle beam paths is disposed beneath the patient. 17. The method of claim 14, further including moving a particle beam nozzle from the first particle beam path to the second particle beam path under control of a processing unit. 18. The method of claim 14, further including moving the patient between the steps of directing the particle beam of high-energy particles along a first particle beam path and directing the particle beam of high-energy particles along the second particle beam path. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein the second particle beam path is approximately co-linear with the first particle beam path at a treatment station, and the second particle beam path is configured to direct the particle beam of high energy particles in a different direction than the first particle beam path. 20. The method of claim 14, wherein the first particle beam path and the second particle beam path have approximately equal path lengths. 21. The method of claim 14, wherein the particle beam of high-energy particles includes protons. 22. The method of claim 14, wherein the first particle beam path and at least two of the plurality of alternative particle beam paths are each approximately 90 degrees from each other. 