A liquid handling robot for handling well plates. The robot has a powered anvil which loads pipette tips from a tray onto the cones of a liquid handling head by first clamping the liquid handling head to the anvil and then ramming a movable plate carrying the pipette tips onto the cones. The robot also allows for fully automated swapping between different heads, such as liquid handling heads or pin heads. A head parking station is provided for parking heads when they are not being used. The robot has an automated pipette tip tray dispenser based on storage cassettes that store vertically stacked pipette tip trays. The trays are dispensed one at a time out of the storage cassette past retaining catches which are normally inwardly positioned to carry the pipette tip trays, but are outwardly biasable by a dispensing mechanism to allow the lowest tray in the shaft to pass onto a conveyor which moves the tray to a pick-up position from which the head can move the tray to the powered anvil for pipette tip loading onto a liquid handling head.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot for handling biological sample containers, comprising: (a) a head for carrying out processes on biological sample containers; (b) a positioning apparatus for moving the head around the robot; (c) an attachment mechanism; and (d) a parking station for parking the head, wherein the head: (i) is connected to the positioning apparatus by the attachment mechanism which is drivable between a clamped state, in which the head is secured to the positioning apparatus, and a released state, in which the head can be detached from the positioning apparatus and deposited in the park station, and (ii) is configured with resident logic comprising head identification data; wherein the attachment mechanism includes a communication feed-through to transmit the head identification data from the head to a computer control system, and wherein the communication feed-through comprises an electrical contact pad on the head which is connected to a corresponding contact pad on the attachment mechanism to allow transmission of identification data from the resident logic located in the head to the computer control system; and, wherein the parking station functions to house the head when the head is not attached to the positioning apparatus. 2. The robot according to claim 1, wherein the park station comprises a plurality of parking bays, each for parking one head. 3. The robot according to claim 2, comprising a further head. 4. The robot according to claim 3, wherein the head and the further head are both liquid handling heads for pipetting. 5. The robot according to claim 3, wherein the head is a liquid handling head and the further head is a pin head for pipetting, colony picking, spotting, gridding or any combination thereof. 6. The robot according to claim 3, wherein the head and the further head 30 are both pin heads for pipetting, colony picking, spotting, gridding or any combination thereof. 7. The robot according to claim 1, wherein the attachment mechanism comprises a piston assembly arranged to actuate a knee joint connected to a latch, the knee joint adopting a bent position in the released state mid straightened position in the clamped state. 8. The robot according to claim 7, wherein the piston assembly includes two piston cylinder units arranged in a push-me-pull-you configuration either side of the knee joint. 9. The robot according to claim 1, wherein the contact pad further provides the head with electrical power feeds. 10. A releasable head for a biological sample container handling robot, comprising: (a) a communication feed-through for communicating to a robot to which the head is attached, wherein the communication feed-through comprises an electrical contact pad which connects the head to the robot allowing transfer of head-identification data from the head to a computer control system; and (a) a resident logic component located in the head which allows communication of the head identification data to the computer control system through the communication feed-through to identify the head attached to the robot. 11. The head according to claim 10, wherein the contact pad further provides the head with electrical power feeds. 12. The head according to claim 10, wherein the head is a liquid handling head for pipetting. 13. The head according to claim 10, wherein the head is a pin head for pipetting, colony picking, spotting, gridding or any combination thereof. 