A robotic system has a drive chassis having a drive motor and a drive element attached to the first drive motor. Additionally, a motor controller system provides drive signals to the first drive motor. A logic controller provides control signals to the motor controller. A network system is provided for communicating with the logic controller. At least one peripheral element communicates with the network system. There is additionally provided a wireless arrangement for communicating wirelessly with the network system.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic system, comprising: a drive chassis having a first drive motor; a first drive element attached to said first drive motor; a motor controller system for providing drive signals to said first drive motor; a logic controller for providing control signals to said motor controller; a network system for communicating with said logic controller; a peripheral element for communicating with said network system; and a wireless arrangement for communicating wirelessly with said network system, said wireless arrangement being configured to propagate drive actuation signals from a remote drive control source to said logic controller. 2. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein there is further provided a second drive element, said first and second drive elements comprises a track arrangement. 3. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein said first element comprises a wheel. 4. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein said peripheral element communicates with said network system using File Transfer Protocol (FTP). 5. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein said peripheral element communicates with said network system using User Datagram Protocol (UDP). 6. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein said peripheral element communicates with said network system using Transmission Control Protocol (TCP). 7. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein said peripheral element is a camera. 8. The robotic system of claim 7, wherein said camera is configured to provide imaging data for navigation of the robotic system, and the drive actuation signals are responsive to the imaging data. 9. The robotic system of claim 8, wherein said camera is configured for conducting inspection of the underside of a vehicle desired to be inspected. 10. The robotic system of claim 7, wherein said camera has a built-in web server. 11. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein said peripheral element is an illumination device. 12. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein said peripheral element is a proximity sensing system. 13. The robotic system of claim 1, wherein said peripheral element is a chemical sensing system. 14. A robotic system, comprising: a drive chassis having a drive motor; a first drive element attached to said drive motor; a motor controller system for providing drive signals to said drive motor; a logic controller for providing control signals to said motor controller; a network system for communicating with said logic controller; a peripheral element for communicating with said network system; a wireless arrangement for facilitating wireless communication with said network system; and a remote manipulable controller transceiver for communicating wirelessly with said wireless arrangement, said wireless arrangement being configured to propagate drive actuation signals from said remote manipulable controller transceiver to said logic controller. 15. The robotic system of claim 14, wherein said remote manipulable controller transceiver is provided with a display system for provided indication to a user responsive to said peripheral element. 16. The robotic system of claim 14, wherein said peripheral element is a camera. 17. The robotic system of claim 16, wherein the direction of view of said camera is controllable from said remote manipulable controller transceiver. 18. The robotic system of claim 14, wherein said remote manipulable controller transceiver is a remote computer, and said wireless arrangement establishes wireless communication between said network system and the web. 19. The robotic system of claim 14, wherein said peripheral element is an infrared sensor system. 20. A robotic system, comprising: a drive chassis having a drive motor; a first drive element attached to said drive motor; a motor controller system for providing drive signals to said drive motor; a logic controller for providing control signals to said motor controller; a network system for communicating with said logic controller; a peripheral element for communicating with said network system; and a wireless arrangement for facilitating wireless communication between said network system and the web, said wireless arrangement being configured to propagate drive actuation signals received from the web, to said logic controller. 