A substrate transportation device includes a housing for transporting substrates. The housing is formed of an upper surface, a lower surface, and opposing sidewalls. The housing has a rear opening through which the substrates enter the housing and a front opening through which the substrates exit the housing. A plurality of hollow supporting members are disposed within the housing and affixed to the opposing sidewalls which are formed by a plurality of columns. The hollow supporting members have a plurality of apertures in an upper surface for supplying a medium to a lower surface of the plurality of substrates. A medium supply member transfers the medium toward the hollow supporting member. The medium transferred by the medium supply member is delivered through the apertures in the upper surface of the plurality of hollow supporting members to float the substrates on a cushion of air.
Claims We claim: 1. A substrate transportation device comprising: a housing having a front opening and a rear opening, an array of hollow supporting members disposed within the housing, the hollow supporting members having a plurality of apertures in an upper surface, and a lower surface of each of the hollow supporting members are free from apertures; and a medium supply member to supply a medium to the hollow supporting member, wherein the medium supplied by the medium supply member is exhausted through the apertures to create a space between the hollow supporting members and a substrate. 2. The substrate transportation device according to claim 1, wherein the medium is exhausted from the hollow supporting members at a pressure greater than ambient pressure. 3. The substrate transportation device according to claim 1, wherein the array of hollow supporting members is arranged to exhaust a medium to support a single substrate. 4. The substrate transportation device according to claim 1, wherein the housing includes a pair of opposing sidewalls and the hollow supporting members extend between the opposing sidewalls. 5. The substrate transportation device according to claim 4, wherein the hollow supporting members are arrayed in rows between the opposing sidewalls. 6. The substrate transportation device according to claim 4, wherein each of the opposing sidewalls comprises a plurality of columns. 7. The substrate transportation device according to claim 1, wherein the medium supply member comprises a multi-fingered blower selectively moveable in the horizontal and vertical directions. 8. The substrate transportation device according to claim 1, wherein the hollow supporting members at the rear opening of the housing are higher than the hollow supporting members at the front opening of the housing, wherein the plurality of substrates in the housing is inclined toward the front opening of the housing. 9. The substrate transportation device according to claim 1, wherein the supporting members are tubular in shape. 10. The substrate transportation device according to claim 1, wherein the medium supply member comprises a compressor for compressing a medium and transferring the compressed medium toward the hollow supporting member. 11. The substrate transportation device according to claim 1, wherein the medium supply member comprises a blower including a blowing fan and a driving motor. 12. The substrate transportation device according to claim 1, further comprising a control unit for outputting control signals to the air-blower, thereby controlling the pressure of the medium supplied to the hollow supporting members. 13. The substrate transportation device according to claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises a glass tray. 14. A method of transporting a substrate into and out of a housing, the method comprising: providing a housing including an upper surface, a lower surface, opposing sidewalls, a front opening, a rear opening, and a plurality of hollow supporting members; injecting a medium into the plurality of hollow supporting members, the hollow supporting members including a plurality of apertures on an upper surface thereof to exhaust the medium; inserting a substrate, by a first edge of the substrate, into the housing substantially parallel to the upper surface of the plurality of hollow supporting members, so that the exhausted medium strikes the lower surface of the substrate floating the substrate; and transporting the substrate from the housing. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the step of injecting comprises injecting a compressed medium. 16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the step of injecting comprises setting a pressure of the compressed medium to a predetermined pressure. 17. The method according to claim 14, wherein the step of injecting comprises injecting air from a blower. 18. The method according to claim 14, further comprising the step of controlling the pressure of the medium to maintain the substrate at a predetermined distance from the plurality of hollow supporting members. 19. The method according to claim 14, wherein the step of transporting the substrate from the housing comprises transporting the substrate with a small motor. 20. The method according to claim 14, wherein the step of transporting the substrate from the housing comprises transporting the substrate with a metallic reed. 21. The method according to claim 14, wherein the step of transporting the substrate from the housing comprises applying a longitudinal force to a second edge of the substrate. 22. The method according to claim 14, wherein the step of inserting comprises simultaneously inserting a plurality of substrates into the housing. 23. The method according to claim 14, wherein the step of transporting comprises simultaneously discharging a plurality of substrates from the housing. 24. The method according to claim 15, wherein the step of injecting a compressed medium comprises injecting a compressed gas. 25. The method according to claim 24, wherein the step of injecting a compressed gas comprises injecting compressed air. 