The present invention provides a method and apparatus for the creation and dispensing of a custom formulation within a package at a retail point of sale. In one aspect, the invention includes an automated dispensing apparatus including at least a two-axis robot arm. In another aspect, the invention includes an automated mixer adapted to mix the dispensed custom formulation within the package.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for dispensing a custom formulation at a retail point of sale, comprising the steps of: providing at a retail store a point-of-sale custom formulation dispensing apparatus, including a plurality of ingredients, contained in ingredient containers that are carried on a common carrier, and a plurality of packages for filling, wherein the carrier is fixedly attached to a housing; transferring the ingredients into alignment with the package, such that a robot arm moves to the carrier and withdraws ingredients or ingredient containers therefrom and dispenses the ingredients into the package; dispensing a plurality of customer selected custom formulations with the apparatus; robotically installing a cap onto the packages; periodically causing the ingredient containers and packages of the apparatus to be refilled; operating the robot arm in at least three axes including at least two rotational axes for retrieving ingredients from their position on the carrier; and wherein the apparatus includes a computer, an automated dispensing apparatus for dispensing ingredients from the ingredient containers using the robot arm, a user interface for enabling a customer to select a custom formulation; and the housing that contains at least two components of the computer, the automated dispensing apparatus, the ingredients containers, and the packages for filling. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein dispensing takes place in the substantial absence of a technician for operating the apparatus. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot arm translates a platform, an ingredients container, a package into which ingredients are dispensed, or any combination thereof. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the custom formulation is a cosmetic formulation. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the custom formulation is selected from a lipstick, eye shadow, lip gloss, foundation, lip liner, nail polish, blush, eye shadow, mascara, body lotion, or face powder. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of employing a radiofrequency identification device for retrieving information about a customer, for monitoring inventory, for controlling operation of the robot arm or any combination thereof. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the dispensing apparatus is provided with a transparent portion in its housing for attracting users to watch moving components during dispensing. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of dipping one or more needles, ladles, aspirating tubes, or other suitable withdrawal devices into the ingredient containers during the step of withdrawing ingredients. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the dispensing device includes a mechanical drive means for urging the ingredient from within the container. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the dispensing device includes a purging or cleaning device for cleaning needles, ladles, aspirating tubes or other suitable withdrawal devices. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of sensing the amount of ingredients in one or more, and preferably all of the ingredient containers. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot arm has a gripping mechanism, a dispensing mechanism, or both. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising a step of gripping a package or ingredient container. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot arm is adapted for placing an applicator onto the container upon completion of dispensing into the package. 15. The method of claim 11, wherein the sensors include position sensors, weight sensors, pressure sensors, and any combination thereof. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the robot arm is mounted to the housing and is movable along a guide. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the retail point of sale apparatus is performed in a generally rectangular housing having dimensions of about 0.3 to about 1 m long, by about 0.3 to about 1 m deep, and by about 0.3 to about 1 m tall. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the dispensing apparatus is provided with a transparent portion in its housing for attracting users to watch moving components during dispensing. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of withdrawing ingredients from one or more ingredients containers among a selection of at least 50 ingredients. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the ingredients containers are carried on at least one carrier and the carrier includes a plurality of linearly arranged ingredient containers. 