A method of treatment, clinical treatment assembly, robotic manipulator and controlling arrangements for the treatment of cancers are described. The invention has particular application in the treatment of breast cancer. A robotic manipulator (18) carries a jig assembly (30). The jig assembly (30) includes an array of treatment probes (52, 54, 56) and a single identification/diagnostic probe (58). The probes can be moved by the robotic manipulator (18) in three directions (x, y, .theta.). A subject breast tissue is received in a tank (16) through an operating window (14), and the robotic manipulator (18) is to firstly determine the site of a tumor in the breast tissue. Once the tumor has been located by use of the identification/diagnostic probe (58), the treatment probes (52, 54, 56) are used to ablate the tumor by the superposition of ultrasonic waves at a focal region. A series of such lesions may be performed in sequence to traverse the full extent of the tumor.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for manipulating treatment probes during ultrasonic treatment of a cancer in subject tissue, comprising: supporting a plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes with a jig assembly that comprises a central shaft extending along an axis, a plurality of collars coaxially mounted about said axis on said central shaft, and each of said collars independently rotatable about said axis, and a plurality of adjustable supports each attached to one of said collars, wherein each one of said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes is received by one of said supports, and said collars are positioned about said axis and said adjustable supports are adjusted, to focus said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes onto a con-focal region of a target tumour of said subject tissue; and robotically manipulating said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes, by moving said central shaft, to focus said treatment probes onto said con-focal region on at least a portion of said target tumour whose site is determined by an ultrasound identification probe. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising manipulating said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes to sight on one or more other focal regions of the target tumour. 3. A method claimed in claim 2, wherein said manipulations are performed as a series of step-wise motions in one plane. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising supporting said identification probe at the end of said central shaft and determining the site of the target tumour by ultrasound using said identification probe, prior to said robotically manipulating said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes. 5. A method in claim 4, wherein said determining the site of the target tumour includes: ultrasonically scanning at least a portion of subject tissue in a series of step-wise slices by moving said jig assembly to derive a pseudo three-dimensional representation thereof. 6. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising preceding said robotically manipulating said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes by mechanically configuring said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes to give a desired convergent con-focal region. 7. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising, following said robotically manipulating said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes, activating said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes to ablate said portion of the target tumour. 8. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein at least one of frequency, power and on-time of said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes is adjusted. 9. A method as claimed in claim 7, further comprising, defining a safe working envelope for said robotic manipulation. 10. A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein said robotic manipulation is interlocked with said activation such that said robotic manipulation and said activation cannot occur simultaneously. 11. A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising locating and orientating said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes and a patient relative to each other, such that the target tumour site is within the range of motion of said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the length of each of said supports to focus said ultrasonic treatment probes onto said con-focal region. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising supporting an identification probe at the end of said shaft to determine said site of said target tumour by ultrasound. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein at least three collars, three adjustable supports, and three ultrasonic probes are supported by said jig assembly. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said manipulating further comprises mechanically moving said jig assembly linearly along said axis, while said ultrasonic probes remain stationary on said jig assembly. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising positioning said jig assembly in three dimensions while said ultrasonic probes remain stationary on said jig assembly, to position said ultrasonic probes to sight said con-focal region on said at least a portion of said target tumour whose site is determined by ultrasound. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said subject tissue is within a human breast. 18. Apparatus for the ultrasonic treatment of cancer in subject tissue, comprising: an away of (i) two or more ultrasonic treatment probes, that are mechanically configurable to be focused onto a desired con-focal region, and (ii) an ultrasonic identification probe; a robotic manipulator, carrying said array, and operable to move said array and thus sight said con-focal region, wherein said ultrasonic treatment probes are supported by a jig assembly that comprises a central shaft extending along an axis, a plurality of collars coaxially mounted about said axis on said central shaft, with each of said collars independently rotatable about said axis, and a plurality of adjustable supports each attached to one of said collars, wherein each one of said ultrasonic treatment probes is received by one of said supports, and said collars are positioned about said axis and said supports are adjustable to focus said ultrasonic treatment probes onto said con-focal region; and a programmed controller which operates to activate said probes and cause motion of said robotic manipulator in a manner such that said ultrasonic identification probe is scanned over at least a portion of the tissue to determine a site of a target tumour, and said treatment probes are sighted such that said con-focal region coincides with at least a portion of the target tumour and are activated to ablate the portion of the target tumour. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein said controller activates said robotic manipulator to sight and operate said treatment probes at other focal regions coinciding with the target tumour. 20. Apparatus as claimed in claim 19, wherein said controller activates said robotic manipulator as a series of step-wise motions in one plane to sight and operate said treatment probes in aggregation to coincide with the target tumour in that plane. 21. Apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 18, wherein said robotic manipulator operates to cause said identification probe to scan at least a portion of the subject tissue as a series of step-wise slices to derive a pseudo three-dimensional representation thereof. 22. Apparatus as claimed in claim 18, wherein said array of probes is mechanically configured to give a desired focal region matching to said site of the target tumour. 23. Apparatus as claimed in claim 22, wherein said ultrasonic treatment probes have predetermined parameters to be applied to the target tumour. 24. Apparatus as claimed in claim 18, further comprising a procedure table upon which a subject can lie, having an acoustic window therein at which the subject tissue is sited. 25. Apparatus as claimed in claim 24, wherein said acoustic window is arranged to be aligned with the breast of the subject. 26. Apparatus as claimed in claim 18, wherein said controller is programmed to define a safe working envelope for manipulation. 27. Apparatus as claimed in claim 26, wherein said controller further interlocks said treatment probes and said robotic manipulator so that both cannot be operated simultaneously. 28. A method for manipulating treatment probes during ultrasonic treatment of a cancer in subject tissue, comprising: supporting a plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes with a jig assembly that comprises a support member defining an axis, a plurality of collars coaxially mounted about said axis on said support member and each of said plurality of collars is rotatable about said axis, and at least one arced arm attached to each of said plurality of collars, each said at least one arced arm supporting at least one of said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes, wherein said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes are received by said at least one arced arm to be focused onto a con-focal region of a target tumour of said subject tissue, said con-focal region remaining intersected by said axis as said plurality of collars is rotated about said axis; and robotically manipulating said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes, to focus said treatment probes onto said con-focal region on at least a portion of said target tumour whose site is determined by an ultrasound identification probe. 29. An apparatus for treating cancer in a subject tissue, comprising: an ultrasonic identification probe and a plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes; a robotic manipulator, carrying said identification and treatment probes, and operable to move said identification and treatment probes to sight a con-focal region, wherein said identification and treatment probes are supported by a jig assembly that comprises a support member for supporting said identification probe and defining an axis, a plurality of collars coaxially mounted about said axis on said support member with each of said plurality of collars rotatable about said axis, and at least one arced arm attached to each of said plurality of collars, each said at least one arced arm supporting at least one of said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes, wherein said plurality of ultrasonic treatment probes are received by said at least one arced arm to be focused onto said con-focal region, said con-focal region remaining intersected by said axis as said plurality of collars is rotated about said axis; and a programmed controller for activating said identification and treatment probes and causing motion of said robotic manipulator in a manner such that said ultrasonic identification probe is scanned over at least a portion of the subject tissue to determine a site of a target tumour, and said treatment probes are sighted such that said con-focal region coincides with at least a portion of the target tumour and are activated to ablate the portion of the target tumour. 