The present invention relates to an injection system for injecting material into a receiving vessel, said injection system comprising: (i) an injection chamber provided with means to connect to the receiving vessel, and (ii) an injection capsule, adapted to fit within the injection chamber, and comprising a reservoir for the material and a valve, said injection system being adapted so that opening of the valve causes material contained within the reservoir to be injected into the receiving vessel by action of a pressure differential between the injection chamber and the receiving vessel. The present invention also relates to a method of injecting material into a receiving vessel using said injection system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An injection system for injecting material into a polymerization reactor, said injection system comprising: i) a polymerization reactor for the polymerization of one or more monomer reactants; ii) an injection chamber provided with means to connect the injection chamber to the polymerization reactor, iii) an injection capsule, adapted to fit within the injection chamber, and including a reservoir for the material and a valve, and iv) means for creating a pressure differential between the injection chamber and the polymerization reactor so that on opening of the valve of the injection capsule a flow of fluid occurs from the injection chamber into the polymerization reactor due to said pressure differential, which flow of fluid causes the material contained within the reservoir of the injection capsule to be forced out of the injection capsule and injected into the polymerization reactor along with said flow of fluid. 2. The injection system according to claim 1, wherein the injection capsule valve is actuated by the pressure differential between the injection chamber and the polymerization reactor. 3. The injection system according to claim 2, wherein the injection capsule valve comprises a spring and plate assembly, wherein the plate is held in a closed position by the spring when there is no pressure differential. 4. The injection system according to claim 1, which further comprises at least partly automated means for manipulation of the injection capsule. 5. The injection system according to claim 1, wherein the material to be injected is catalyst materials, solvents, reactants, promoters, poisons, quench agents, scavengers, support particles or inert solids. 6. The injection system according to claim 5, wherein the material to be injected is a catalyst material. 7. The injection system according to claim 1, wherein the polymerization reactor has a volume of between 10 ml and 500 ml. 8. The injection system according to claim 1, wherein the injection chamber has a capacity of between 10 and 20% of the volume of the polymerization reactor. 9. The injection system according to claim 1, which comprises a plurality of injection chambers configured so as to deliver material to a plurality of polymerization reactors. 10. A process for injecting materials into a polymerization reactor using an injection system as defined in claim 1, said process comprising: i) providing an injection capsule, containing the material to be injected, within the injection chamber, ii) pressurizing the injection chamber to a pressure above that in the polymerization reactor which is greater than atmospheric pressure, and iii) opening the valve so that the material is injected into the polymerization reactor. 