Methods and apparatuses are disclosed for applying melt flowable materials to components of articles of manufacture. The methods and apparatuses disclosed herein are concerned with formation of appropriate flowable materials, control over the manner in which the flowable materials are applied, treatment of the components prior to application of the flowable materials and the like. Moreover, the apparatuses and methods may be particularly suited for applying flowable materials to surfaces and components found in automotive, aerospace, and marine vehicles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for applying a flowable material to a component of an article of manufacture, the method comprising: providing a first surface of the component; and extruding the flowable material upon the first surface in a slightly flowable state, using an extruder including an ectruder screw such that the flowable material wets and adheres to the first surface wherein: i) a controller employs closed loop control to control output of flowable material based upon a metering system that relates screw rotational speed of the extruder and positioning angle of the extruder to the output; ii) the output of the flowable material from the extruder has been experimentally related to the positioning angle of the extruder and the rotational speed of the extruder screw for creating an output profile that is programmed to the controller; iii) the profile relates the desired amount of flowable material output over time and the desired positioning angle of the extruder, to the desired rotational speed of the extruder screw for a chosen component; iv) as the flowable material is output, data regarding the angle of the extruder and the rotational speed of the extruder screw are monitored via sensors; and v) an amount of torque applied to the extruder screw is either raised, lowered or maintained such that the output of flowable material or the rotational speed of the extruder screw closely mirrors the output profile. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein the first surface includes at least one contaminant material disposed thereon and the method further comprises treating the first surface of the component for removing the at least one contaminant material therefrom and the step of treating the first surface of the component includes applying a primer to the first surface, washing the first surface or exposing the surface of the component to energy from an energy source for removing the at least one contaminant material from the first surface and wherein the flowable material includes a blowing agent that foams the flowable material at an elevated temperature experienced during an automotive coating process. 3. A method as in claim 1 further comprising: providing the extruder as a substantially stationary extruder in communication with the supply of the flowable material; providing a robot adjacent the extruder, the robot capable of attaching to and moving a whole-body side panel of an automotive vehicle in a plurality of directions relative to the stationary extruder; moving the whole-body side panel of the automotive vehicle according to a predetermined pattern below the extruder during application of the flowable material to the component. 4. A method as in claim 1 wherein the step of extruding the flowable material to the first surface occurs without pre-heating the first surface. 5. A method as in claim 1 wherein the flowable material is an epoxy based flowable material and the flowable material includes an ingredient selected from a solubilizing agent, a low compatibility component, a polar ingredient or an ingredient modified with an adhesion promoter and wherein the flowable material has a base resin with a narrow molecular weight distribution. 6. A method as in claim 1 further comprising assembling the component to the article of manufacture wherein the article of manufacture is an automotive vehicle wherein the component is a part of the automotive vehicle selected from a door beam, a closure panel, a trunk lid, a hood lid, a roof bow, a fuel filler door, exterior trim or a vehicle pillar. 7. A method for applying a flowable material to a component of an article of manufacture, the method comprising: providing a first surface of the component; extruding the flowable material upon the first surface in a slightly flowable state, using an extruder including an ectruder screw such that the flowable material wets and adheres to the first surface wherein a controller employs closed loop control to control output of flowable material based upon a metering system that relates screw rotational speed of the extruder screw to the output; heating the surface of the component prior to applying the flowable material to the surface wherein the step of heating the surface includes exposing the surface to a lamp, exposing the surface to a blower, exposing the surface to a flame or combinations thereof; transporting the component along with a plurality of other components wherein the flowable material is substantially tack-free at temperatures near room temperature; and assembling the component to the article of manufacture wherein the article of manufacture is an automotive vehicle; wherein the step of extruding the flowable material includes extruding the flowable material with an automated apparatus, the automated apparatus including: i) a supply of the flowable material, the flowable material being provided as pellets in a container; ii) an extruder in communication with the supply of flowable material for receiving the pellets, the extruder capable of intermixing the pellets of flowable material into a viscoelastic state and dispensing the flowable material, the extruder including the rotatable screw for dispensing the flowable material; and iii) a system for moving the extruder or the component during dispensing of the flowable material; wherein the controller is in communication with the extruder and the system and wherein the extruder includes a heating element for heating the flowable material to a desired temperature and wherein the component is formed of a metal selected from steel, aluminum, or stamped metal and wherein the controller is a programmable logic controller in communication with the extruder, the programmable logic controller programmed with a profile that relates an output rate of flowable material to a position angle of the extruder and a rotational speed of the extruder screw and wherein the programmable logic controller employs closed loop control in conjunction with the profile to set the output rate at a desired level. 8. A method as in claim 7 wherein the extruder includes a nozzle arrangement including an extrusion die through which material is extruded from the extruder to the component and wherein the extrusion die is attached to the extruder with a quick change attachment device selected from a quick nut and bolt fastener, a hydraulic quick connect fastener or a male/female quick connect fastener and further wherein the extruder die includes a plurality of openings for emitting a plurality of beads of flowable material. 9. A method as in claim 7 wherein the extruder is configured to dispense the flowable material upon the component within a tolerance of less than 3 millimeters upon a surface of the component. 10. A method as in claim 7 wherein the system includes a robot arm, a conveyor or a carousel for moving the component and the apparatus includes a source of vacuum pressure for moving pellets from the container to the extruder. 11. A method for applying a flowable material to a component of an article of manufacture, the method comprising: providing a first surface of the component; and extruding the flowable material upon the first surface in a slightly flowable state such, using an extruder including an extruder screw that the flowable material wets and adheres to the first surface wherein: i. a controller employs closed loop control to control output of flowable material based upon a metering system that relates screw rotational speed of the extruder screw to the output; and ii. the controller is programmed to reverse a direction of rotation of the extruder screw for retracting the flowable material a short distance after an application of the flowable material to the component; and iii. a screw bearing assembly is associated with the extruder, the assembly having a first thrust bearing and a second thrust bearing, wherein the first and second thrust bearings act in opposite directions. 12. A method as in claim 11 further comprising: transporting the component along with a plurality of other components wherein the flowable material is substantially tack-free at temperatures near room temperature; and assembling the component to the article of manufacture wherein the article of manufacture is an automotive vehicle. 13. A method as in claim 12 wherein the flowable material is an epoxy based flowable material and the flowable material includes an ingredient selected from a solubilizing agent, a low compatibility component, a polar ingredient or an ingredient modified with an adhesion promoter and wherein the flowable material has a base resin with a narrow molecular weight distribution and wherein the flowable material includes a blowing agent that foams the flowable material at an elevated temperature experienced during an automotive coating process. 14. A method as in claim 13 wherein the step of extruding the flowable material includes extruding the flowable material with an automated apparatus, the automated apparatus including: i) a supply of the flowable material, the flowable material being provided as pellets in a container; ii) an extruder in communication with the supply of flowable material for receiving the pellets, the extruder capable of intermixing the pellets of flowable material into a viscoelastic state and dispensing the flowable material, the extruder including the rotatable screw for dispensing the flowable material; and iii) a system for moving the extruder or the component during dispensing of the flowable material; wherein the controller is in communication with the extruder and the system and wherein the extruder includes a heating element for heating the flowable material to a desired temperature. 15. A method as in claim 14 wherein the component is formed of a metal selected from steel, aluminum, or stamped metal. 16. A method as in claim 11 wherein the output of the flowable material from the extruder has been experimentally related to the positioning angle of the extruder and the rotational speed of the extruder screw for creating an output profile that is programmed to the controller and wherein, as the flowable material is output, an amount of torque applied to the extruder screw is either raised, lowered or maintained such that the output of flowable material or the rotational speed of the extruder screw closely mirrors the output profile. 17. A method for applying a flowable material to a component of an article of manufacture, the method comprising: providing a first surface of the component: and extruding the flowable material upon the first surface in a slightly flowable state, using an extruder including an extruder screw such that the flowable material wets and adheres to the first surface wherein: i. a controller employs closed loop control to control output of flowable material based upon a metering system that relates screw rotational speed of the extruder screw to the output; and ii. the controller is programmed to reverse a direction of rotation of the extruder screw for retracting the flowable material a short distance after an application of the flowable material to the component: wherein the output of the flowable material from the extruder has been experimentally related to the positioning angle of the extruder and the rotational speed of the extruder screw for creating an output profile that is programmed to the controller and wherein, as the flowable material is output, an amount of torque applied to the extruder screw is either raised, lowered or maintained such that the output of flowable material or the rotational speed of the extruder screw closely mirrors the output profile. 