Apparatuses and methods for forming wireless RF labels are claimed. In one embodiment, a flexible layer may be made to receive an array of integrated circuit chips The integrated circuit chips may be powered by a signal from a transmitter which beams the information to the wireless RF labels. The method includes coupling a plurality of integrated circuit chips to a flexible web material and advancing the flexible web material through a web processing apparatus. A metallization material is patterned on the flexible web material. The flexible web material can be coupled to a second web material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for manufacturing an RF transponder label comprising: placing a plurality of integrated circuit chips onto a flexible web material, the integrated circuit chips each being a wireless RF transponder device; advancing the flexible web material through a web processing apparatus that performs a continuous web process; patterning a metallization material onto the flexible web material to form interconnects for each wireless RF transponder device; separating the flexible web material; and coupling the flexible web material to a second web material in a further continuous web process and wherein the placing is performed by a robotic arm. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising viewing the surface of the flexible web material with an electronic eye to check for empty recessed regions. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising laser etching the flexible web material. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the metallization material includes at least one of a conductive polymer, conductive oxide, aluminum, copper, silver, gold, metal particles, and teflon with metallic particles. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the integrated circuit chips are configured to be powered by a signal from a transmitter. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the transmitter is a portable device. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the RF transponder comprises a flexible antenna. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein a length of the flexible material is more than ten times greater than a width of the flexible material. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the integrated circuit chips include at least one of detector, comparator, bias generator, and plurality of amplifiers. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the RF transponder further comprises a photo-voltaic cell. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the integrated circuit chip requires a security code before an update. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the integrated circuit chip is configured to compare an address in a received signal to an address stored in the integrated circuit chip. 13. A method for manufacturing an RF transponder comprising: viewing a surface of a flexible web material with an electronic eye; placing with a robotic arm a plurality of integrated circuit chips onto the surface of the flexible web, the integrated circuit chips each being a wireless RF transponder device; advancing the flexible web material through a web processing apparatus that performs a continuous web process; patterning a conductive material onto the flexible web material to form interconnects for each wireless RF transponder device; separating the flexible web material; and coupling the flexible web material to a second web material in a further continuous web process. 14. A method for manufacturing an RF transponder comprising: placing a plurality of integrated circuit chips onto a web material, the integrated circuit chips each comprising a wireless RF transponder device being configured to be powered by a signal from a transmitter; advancing the web material through a web processing apparatus that performs a continuous web process; patterning a metallization material onto the web material to form interconnects for each wireless RF transponder device; separating the web material; and coupling the web material to a second web material in a further continuous web process and wherein the placing is performed by a robotic arm. 