Stand-alone modules or blocks for use in creating low-power sensor-based monitor/control systems. Each module performs a pre-defined function, and when included in a monitor/control network operates as a node on the network and automatically communicates with one or more connected nodes using a uni-directional packet-based protocol. One class of such predefined nodes communicates Boolean values, for example, with input sensor nodes detecting the presence or absence of environmental phenomena (e.g., motion, light, sound, water, button presses, etc.), intermediate nodes transforming those Boolean values using combinational or sequential logic, and output nodes converting the resulting Boolean values to environmental phenomena (e.g., beeping, light, electric relay activation, etc.) or to data for further processing by a computer. Another class of nodes communicates integer or number values.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A stand-alone module for use in a user-configurable monitor/control network, wherein said module performs a pre-defined function, the module comprising: an interface component that performs a pre-defined function; a processor component that interfaces with the interface component, implements local computation, and maintains local state information wherein the processor component executes a uni-directional packet-based communication protocol for communication with other modules when the module is configured in a network of one or more other stand-alone modules; and a power source component configured to supply power to the interface component and the processor component. 2. The module of claim 1, wherein the power source component includes one of a battery or a circuit configured to convert power from an external voltage source. 3. The module of claim 1, wherein the module further includes at least one of a uni-directional input port for receiving communication packets from other modules and a uni-directional output port for sending communication packets to other modules. 4. The module of claim 1, wherein the interface component includes one of a sensor element that detects the presence or absence of an environmental event or a quantity of an environmental attribute, an output generator that generates a physical output, or a computational circuit input element that controls the processor to perform one of a logic computation, a state computation or an arithmetic computation on one or more input values. 5. The module of claim 1, wherein the interface component includes a sensor element that detects the presence or absence of an event and generates a boolean signal, wherein the processor component is configured to send a packet to another module including a Boolean value in response to receiving the Boolean signal. 6. The module of claim 5, wherein the sensor element is selected from the group consisting of a light sensor, a motion sensor, a magnetic contact switch, a sound sensor, a water sensor, a button and a keypad. 7. The module of claim 1, wherein the interface component includes a sensor element that detects an environmental condition and generates an integer signal, wherein the processor component is configured to send a packet to another module including an integer value in response to receiving the integer signal. 8. The module of claim 7, wherein the sensor element is selected from the group consisting of a temperature sensor and a distance sensor. 9. The module of claim 1, wherein the interface component includes an output generator that generates a physical output in response to a control signal, wherein the processor component is configured to receive a packet from another module including a Boolean value and to generate the control signal based on the received Boolean value. 10. The module of claim 9, wherein the output generator is selected from the group consisting of an audible beeper, an LED, a light, an electric relay, and an electric lock. 11. The module of claim 1, wherein the interface component includes an output generator that generates a physical output in response to a control signal, wherein the processor component is configured to receive a packet from another module including an integer value and to generate the control signal based on the received integer value. 12. The module of claim 11, wherein the output generator includes an integer display device. 13. The module of claim 1, wherein the interface component includes a user-configurable computation circuit input element that controls the processor component to perform one of a logic computation, a state computation or an arithmetic computation, wherein the processor component is configured to receive packets from one or more other modules, each packet including one of a Boolean value and an integer value. 14. The module of claim 13, wherein the computation circuit input element includes a logic computation circuit selected from the group consisting of a two input Boolean logic circuit with a DIP switch, and a three input Boolean logic circuit with a DIP switch. 15. The module of claim 1, wherein the interface component includes a computation circuit input element that controls the processor component to operate as one of a threshold circuit, a range circuit, a counter circuit or an arithmetic computation circuit. 16. The module of claim 1, wherein the interface component includes a computation circuit input element that controls the processor component to operate as one of a Boolean timer, an integer timer, a toggle, a prolonger, a pulse generator, a switch, an error detector or a turnstile logger. 17. The module of claim 1, wherein the interface component includes one of a wireless transmitter, a wireless receiver, or a computation circuit input element that controls the processor component to operate as one of a splitter, an Internet controller, an Internet status monitor, a telephone controller or a telephone status monitor. 18. The module of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control communication with other modules such that packets are sent intermittently so as to conserve operating power. 19. The module of claim 1, wherein the interface component includes one or more user-configurable inputs, the configuration of which controls the processor to generate an output according to the pre-defined function. 20. A system comprising two or more stand-alone modules according to claim 1, wherein said two or more modules communicate using said packet-based communication protocol. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein packets are transmitted intermittently between the two or more modules in such a manner that communication between the modules appears to be continuous. 22. A user-configurable monitor/control system comprising at least two stand-alone modules, each module comprising: an interface component that performs a pre-defined function; a processor component that interfaces with the interface component, implements local computation, and maintains local state information wherein the processor component executes a uni-directional packet-based communication protocol for communication with other modules when the module is configured in a network of one or more other stand-alone modules; and a power source component configured to supply power to the interface component and the processor component; wherein the interface component of a first one of the modules includes a sensor element that detects the presence or absence of an event or an environmental condition and that is configured to generate a signal indicative of the condition or event, and wherein the processor component of the first module, in response to receiving a signal from the interface component, sends a packet to a second one of said modules, said packet including one of a Boolean value and an integer value indicative of the detected event or environmental condition. 23. A set of embedded electronics blocks for a user-configurable monitor network, the set of electronic blocks comprising: a sensor block having a sensor, a processor, and a uni-directional interface, the sensor enabled to generate a signal, the processor enabled to send a packet through the uni-directional interface in response to the generated signal; a compute block having a first uni-directional interface operatively coupled to the sensor block uni-directional interface, a logic circuit enabled to perform predefined compute functions on packets received from the sensor block and to generate and send output packets through a second uni-directional interface; a splitter block having a first, second, and third uni-directional interface operatively coupled to a processor, the splitter block processor enabled to duplicate packets received from the first uni-directional interface to both the second and third uni-directional interfaces; a first output block having a uni-directional interface and an output generator, the output generator configured to generate a physical output in response to packets from the splitter block second uni-directional interface; and a second output block having a uni-directional interface and an output generator, the output generator of the second output block configured to generate a physical output in response to packets from the splitter block third uni-directional interface. 24. A set of embedded electronics blocks for a user-configurable monitor network, the set of electronic blocks comprising: a first sensor block having a sensor, a processor, and a uni-directional interface, the sensor enabled to generate a signal, the processor enabled to send a packet through the uni-directional interface in response to the generated signal; a second sensor block having a sensor, a processor, and a uni-directional interface, the second sensor block sensor enabled to generate a signal, the second sensor block processor enabled to send a packet through the second sensor block uni-directional interface in response to the second sensor block generated signal; a compute block having a first uni-directional interface operatively coupled to the first sensor block uni-directional interface, a second uni-directional interface operatively coupled to the second sensor block uni-directional interface, a logic circuit enabled to perform predefined compute functions on packets received from the first and second sensor blocks and to generate and send an output through a third uni-directional interface; and an output block having a uni-directional interface and an output generator, the output generator configured to generate a physical output in response to the output from the compute block. 