A method for solving a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) comprises identifying a first illegal combination associated with at least one variable, wherein the first illegal combination contradicts at least one constraint; grouping the first illegal combination with a second illegal combination, in response to determining that the first and second illegal combinations contradict the same constraint; identifying at least one failure explanation for each group of illegal combinations, wherein the failure explanation is associated with at least one illegal combination in said group to provide a reason for a contradicted constraint associated with the illegal combination; assigning a value to each variable in the given domain to solve the CSP within the limitations defined by the constraints in a solution path; and generating a result, in response to determining that at least one assigned value to a variable contradicts a constraint.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-implemented method for solving a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) comprising: defining a constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) as a set of one or more variables and constraints; determining whether there is at least a first solution to the problem by generating one or more combinations of assignments, wherein each combination of assignments assigns values to one or more of the variables; providing an end user with at least one solution to the CSP, in response to determining that the CSP has at least one solution; and in response to determining that the problem has no solution: grouping the combinations of assignments according to causes of failure, wherein each cause of failure is based on at least one constraint not being satisfied; and providing the end user with an explanation of the causes of failure in a format easily understood by the end user. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the explanation originates from an expert familiar with structural relationships between the variables and constraints defining the CSP. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the expert is also familiar with reasons why the first illegal combination may occur in the solution path. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: solving the CSP several times to generate a plurality of explanations for one or more solution paths; and processing the plurality of explanations to determine most useful explanations for the CSP. 5. The method of claim 4, further comprising embedding a dynamic link to a variable in the plurality of explanations, wherein the dynamic link is updated according to a change in value of the variable during each of the solution paths. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the explanation comprises a reference to a location in the solution path where the first value fails to satisfy the first constraint. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the explanation is provided in language easily understandable by the end user who is not familiar with the structural relationships between the variables and constraints defining the CSP. 