A method and apparatus for detecting backside particles during wafer processing is provided. The method includes forming layers on a front side of a wafer, holding a backside of the wafer on a top surface of a chuck, cooling the wafer by ejecting gas toward the backside of the wafer and detecting the presence of particles on the backside of the wafer whiles ejecting the gas toward the backside of the wafer. The presence of particles is detected if the pressure of the ejected gas is outside of a predetermined range.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of processing wafers comprising: forming layers on a front side of a wafer; holding a backside of the wafer on a top surface of a chuck; cooling the wafer by ejecting gas toward the backside of the wafer; and detecting the presence of a particle on the backside of the wafer while ejecting the gas from the chuck toward the backside of the wafer. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein holding a backside of the wafer on a top surface of a chuck includes holding a backside of the wafer on a top surface of a chuck located inside of a cooling chamber. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the presence of a particle on the backside of the wafer includes measuring a variation of a pressure of the ejected gas. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the ejected gas is selected from the group consisting of helium, nitrogen, argon and combinations thereof. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein holding a backside of the wafer on a top surface of a chuck includes holding a backside of a wafer on a top surface of an electrostatic chuck. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising cleaning the wafer if a particle is detected. 7. A method of processing wafers comprising: loading a wafer into a transfer chamber; transferring the wafer into a process chamber connected to the transfer chamber; forming a layer on a front side of the wafer at a first temperature in the process chamber; transferring the wafer into a cooling chamber connected to the transfer chamber; holding the wafer on the chuck in the cooling chamber; cooling the wafer to a second temperature lower than the first temperature by ejecting gas to a backside of the wafer; and detecting the presence of a particle on the backside of the wafer while ejecting the gas toward the backside of the wafer. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein detecting the presence of a particle on the backside of the wafer includes measuring a variation in a pressure of the ejected gas. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining a particle is present on the backside of the wafer when the measured variation in the pressure of the ejected gas is outside of a predetermined range. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the ejected gas is selected from the group consisting of helium, nitrogen, argon and combinations thereof. 11. The method of claim 7, further comprising cleaning the wafer if a particle is detected on the backside of the wafer. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the first temperature is over 100.degree. C. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein holding the wafer on a chuck in the cooling chamber includes holding the wafer on an electrostatic chuck in the cooling chamber. 14. A method of detecting a particle on a backside of a wafer comprising: holding the wafer on a chuck; cooling the wafer by ejecting a gas toward the backside of the wafer; and detecting the presence of a particle on the backside of the wafer by measuring a variation of a pressure of the ejected gas. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising determining a particle is present on the backside of the wafer when the measured variation of the pressure of the ejected gas is outside of a predetermined range. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the ejected gas is selected from the group consisting of helium, nitrogen, argon and combinations thereof. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein holding the wafer on a chuck includes holding the wafer on an electrostatic chuck. 