A printhead assembly is provided, having at least two printhead modules each including at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and a casing in which the at least two printhead modules are arranged so as to be removably mounted in linearly aligned relationship. The assembly has an aggregate length and a number of printhead integrated circuits predetermined to provide for selected pagewidth printing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least two printhead modules each comprising at least two, separate printhead integrated circuits, each printhead integrated circuit having nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a one-piece support member commonly supporting the printhead integrated circuits of the respective printhead module and having at least one longitudinally extending printing fluid channel and associated apertures for distributing printing fluid to the supported printhead integrated circuits; and a casing in which the at least two printhead modules are arranged so as to be removably mounted in linearly aligned relationship through removable engagement of the support member of each printhead module with a support frame of the casing, the support member of each printhead module having a first tab received in a recess of the support frame and a second tab clamped between the support frame and a mounting element mounted to the support frame so as to allow constrained movement of the printhead modules relative to the casing, the printing fluid channels of the linearly aligned support members of the modules being configured to communicate said printing fluid with one another, wherein the assembly has an aggregate length and a number of printhead modules predetermined to provide for selected pagewidth printing. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein each of the printhead modules has sixteen printhead integrated circuits. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least two printhead modules are each formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to the support member, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein each printhead module of the at least two printhead modules has end portions which permit interconnection of the linearly aligned printhead modules and provide for fluid connection of the channels thereof. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 4, wherein the end portions of each of the printhead modules comprise complementary female and male end portions. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 4, further comprising a sealing adhesive provided at the interface of the interconnected printhead modules. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 6, wherein the sealing adhesive is an epoxy. 