An automated assay processing method including transferring a first number of samples from respective sample containers to a first intermediary vessel, determining the testing adequacy of a second number of samples in a second intermediary vessel, preparing a third number of samples in a third intermediary vessel for downstream testing; and transferring a fourth number of samples from a fourth intermediary vessel to an output sample tray. These steps are all performed essentially simultaneously within the duration of a single clock cycle and are repeated during one or more subsequent clock cycles. The clock cycle may be relative to each intermediary vessel. The clock cycle also may be universal to the first, second, third and fourth intermediary vessels.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A sample processing method comprising: (a) manually providing a plurality of sample tubes in a sample rack; (b) automatically decapping substantially each sample tube; (c) automatically transferring a specimen from substantially each sample tube to a respective intermediary vessel; (d) automatically recapping substantially each sample tube after a specimen has been removed from it; (e) automatically performing one or more processing steps to process substantially each specimen in its respective intermediary vessel into a respective prepared specimen; (f) automatically transferring substantially each prepared specimen to a respective sample output vessel; and (g) manually removing each of the sample output vessels; wherein step (a) is performed during step (e). 2. The sample processing method of claim 1, further comprising manually providing a supply of sample output vessels during step (e). 3. The sample processing method of claim 1, further comprising automatically removing each sample tube from the sample rack before decapping each sample tube, and automatically replacing each sample tube in the sample rack after recapping each sample tube. 4. The sample processing method of claim 1, further comprising automatically removing each sample tube from a respective location on the sample rack before step (b), and automatically replacing each sample tube in the respective location on the sample rack after step (d). 5. The sample processing method of claim 1, wherein step (c) is performed using a pipettor, and the method further comprises manually providing a supply of pipette tips to the pipettor during step (d). 6. The sample processing method of claim 1, wherein each intermediary vessel comprises one of a fixed number of vessels joined as multiple-tube unit. 7. The sample processing method of claim 6, wherein steps (b) through (f) are performed according to a repeating fixed system clock cycle. 8. The sample processing method of claim 7, wherein steps (b), (c) and (d) are repeated a number of times equal to the fixed number of vessels during each system clock cycle. 9. The sample processing method of claim 7, wherein each processing step performed in step (e) is performed within each system clock cycle or a whole multiple of the system clock cycle. 10. The sample processing method of claim 7, wherein each processing step performed in step (e) is performed at a respective processing station, and each processing station is adapted to hold a number of multiple-tube units equal to or greater than the number of clock cycles within which the respective processing step is performed. 