A printhead assembly is provided having at least one printhead module, a support frame removably supporting the printhead module and at least one mounting element; and drive electronics removably mounted to the mounting element to control operation of the print nozzle integrated circuits. Each printhead module has at least two print nozzle integrated circuits, a support member supporting, and carrying printing fluid for, the nozzle ICs, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the nozzle ICs. The drive electronics has contacts for electrical connection to the electrical connector, input contacts for receiving print data, and a controller for processing the print data applicable to a predetermined number of the print nozzle ICs. The drive electronics is selected from a range of drive electronics, each having a different number of controllers such that the ratio of controllers to nozzle ICs can be varied to change the print speed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising at least two print nozzle integrated circuits, a support member supporting, and carrying printing fluid for, the print nozzle integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the print nozzle integrated circuits; a support frame removably supporting the printhead module and at least one mounting element; and drive electronics removable mounted to the mounting element to control operation of the print nozzle integrated circuits, the drive electronics having electrical contacts for electrical connection to the electrical connector, input contacts for receiving print data, and plurality of controllers for processing the print data, each controller being connected to a predetermined number of the print nozzle integrated circuits via the electrical contacts and being interconnected to the other controllers, wherein the drive electronics are selected from a range of drive electronics, each having a different number of said interconnected controllers configured to each process the print data applicable to a selected number of the print nozzle integrated circuits such that the ratio of controllers to print nozzle integrated circuits can be varied to change the print speed of the printhead assembly. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of busbars arranged to distribute power to the print nozzle integrated circuits via the electrical connector, wherein the mounting element has formed therein a plurality of recessed channels for receiving and removably mounting individual ones of the busbars. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, further comprising a pressure plate wherein the electrical connector has a plurality of conductor portions corresponding to each of the busbars, and the plate loads each of the conductor portions against the busbars. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the pressure plate is removably mounted to the support frame by the mounting element. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the pressure plate includes a non-conductive portion which urges the electrical connector against the busbars. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the non-conductive portion is formed of a resilient material. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein the power carried by the busbars is also delivered to the drive electronics via the electrical connector. 8. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the print nozzle integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least one fluid distribution member mounting the print nozzle integrated circuits to the support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the print nozzle integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the at least one channel to associated nozzles in the print nozzle integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 