Disclosed are apparatus and methods for delivery of transcranial magnetic stimulation. The apparatus includes a TMS coil which when energized generates an electric field substantially parallel to a long axis of the coil and substantially normal to a surface of the coil. Furthermore disclosed an apparatus for delivery of TMS in which a coil is adapted to a robotic member for computer-aided control and delivery. Further disclosed are methods of TMS planning and delivery in which subject images are utilized to plan, position and orient the TMS coil for precise delivery. Disclosed also are TMS coils having unique designs to better focus and direct magnetic stimulation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of transcranial magnetic stimulation, comprising: defining a cerebral cortical region of interest for a subject; determining a stimulator position and orientation disposed to deliver an induced electric field substantially perpendicular to said cerebral cortical region of interest in accordance with a cortical column cosine aiming principle such that the electric field is parallel to cortical columns of the cerebral cortical region of interest; positioning said subject to immobilize said cerebral cortical region of interest; directing said stimulator to said subject so that said stimulator is focused to said cerebral cortical region of interest, said directing based on said determined stimulator position and orientation; and delivering said TMS to said subject, said delivering comprising generating an electric field substantially perpendicular to said cerebral cortical region of interest. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing at least one spatial calibration of a delivery device to a data set of said subject. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein said directing is further based on said at least one spatial calibration. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein said at least one spatial calibration comprises a digitizer to a subject image calibration. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said defining comprises using a functional image to obtain said region of interest. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining comprises calculating said stimulator position and orientation based on a scalar product of a model of said induced electric field times a vector model of said region of interest. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said determining comprises superimposing a model of said stimulator on a model of said functional image and an anatomical image. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said directing further comprises modeling said immobilized subject to obtain a scalp surface model and registering said scalp surface model to said model of said functional image and said anatomical image. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said directing is performed by a robotic arm to which said stimulator is adapted. 10. A method of transcranial magnetic stimulation, comprising: positioning a subject to receive the transcranial magnetic stimulation; moving a transcranial magnetic stimulator to a first treatment position, the first treatment position computed to obtain maximum biological efficacy at a first target point of the subject, the maximum biological efficacy at the first target point realized when an induced electric field is parallel to a direction of a cortical column and perpendicular to a cortical surface of the first target point; and delivering the transcranial magnetic stimulation. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising delivering the transcranial magnetic stimulation via the electric field generated substantially perpendicular to the first target point. 12. The method of claim 10, further comprising computing the first treatment position based on a functional image and an anatomical image of the subject. 13. The method of claim 10, further comprising moving the transcranial magnetic stimulator to the first treatment position automatically. 14. The method of claim 10, further comprising: moving the transcranial magnetic stimulator to a second treatment position; and delivering the transcranial magnetic stimulation to the second treatment position. 15. The method of claim 10, wherein delivering the transcranial magnetic stimulation comprises generating an electric field perpendicular to a sulcus, wherein the sulcus comprises the first target point. 16. A method comprising: positioning a subject to receive transcranial magnetic stimulation; locating a transcranial magnetic stimulator at a first treatment position that is perpendicular to a cerebral cortical region of interest of the subject in accordance with a cortical column cosine aiming principle, including that a cortex region is preferentially or exclusively activated, and a maximum activation of the cortex region is by an electric field oriented parallel to a columnar orientation of the cortex region; and delivering the transcranial magnetic stimulation to the subject. 17. The method of claim 16, further comprising computing a position and orientation of the transcranial magnetic stimulator at the first treatment position based on a conjoined functional/anatomical model. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising storing the position and orientation in a storage medium. 19. The method of claim 18, further comprising moving the transcranial magnetic stimulator to the first treatment position automatically based on the stored position and orientation. 20. The method of claim 16, further comprising selecting the cerebral cortical region of interest using an anatomical image to determine a cortical column orientation. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising determining a position and orientation of the transcranial magnetic stimulator at the first treatment position such that the transcranial magnetic stimulator generates an electric field parallel to the cortical column orientation. 