The present invention relates to a conformal gripping device. In an embodiment of the present invention a conformal gripper device may be disclosed comprising a frame that includes an array of movable pins. The device may also include a roller locking and unlocking system within the frame. The system may comprise a pair of locking rollers for each row of gripper pins to facilitate locking and unlocking the array of gripper pins on a column-by-column basis. The system may also include a striker element that may force the locking rollers to roll along an angled roll surface to facilitate unlocking of the array of pins on a column-by-column basis. The system may further include an electromagnetic actuator or solenoid and permanent magnets to facilitate movement of the striker element and the locking rollers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device for gripping wherein said device comprises: a frame comprising an array of movable pins arranged in a plurality of rows and columns; a plurality of locking rollers positioned within said frame for locking said array of movable pins; and, a striker element moveable to selectively force one of said plurality of locking rollers to engage a corresponding movable pin of at least one of said columns of moveable pins thereby locking said at least one of said columns of moveable pins in a locked position. 2. A device according to claim 1, wherein said plurality of locking rollers engages an entire one of said plurality of said rows thereby locking said array of moveable pins in a locked position. 3. A device according to claim 1, wherein each pin in said array of movable pins is preloaded biased in an extended position. 4. A device according to claim 1, wherein each column of said array of movable pins discretely engages said locking rollers to thereby facilitate unlocking said column of moveable pins. 5. A device according to claim 1, wherein each column of said array of movable pins discretely engages said locking rollers to thereby facilitate locking said column of moveable pins. 6. A device according to claim 1, wherein said locking rollers and said striker element are located within said frame. 7. A device according to claim 1, wherein said striker element is located external to said frame. 8. A device according to claim 7 wherein each of said pins in said array of movable pins is adapted to reciprocate between an unlocked position and a locked position. 9. The device according to claim 1, wherein a pair of permanent magnets facilitates movement of said striker element. 10. The device according to claim 1, wherein a pair of solenoids facilitates movement of said striker element. 11. A device for gripping wherein said device comprises: a frame comprising an array of movable pins; a plurality of locking rollers positioned within said frame for locking said array of movable pins; and, a striker element forcing said locking rollers into an unlocking position; wherein a pair of permanent magnets facilitates movement of said striker element. 12. A device for gripping wherein said device comprises: a frame comprising an array of movable pins; a plurality of locking rollers positioned within said frame for locking said array of movable pins; and, a striker element forcing said locking rollers into an unlocking position; wherein a pair of solenoids facilitates movement of said striker element. 13. A system for gripping wherein said system comprises: a frame comprising an array of movable pins arranged in a plurality of rows and columns; a roller locking system comprising a pair of locking rollers arranged to engage corresponding angled roll surfaces; and a striker element moveable to selectively force said locking rollers into rolling engagement with said angled roll surfaces and wedge between said striker element and a corresponding movable pin of at least one of said columns of moveable pins to thereby lock said array of movable pins. 14. A system according to claim 13, wherein each pair of said locking rollers engages a column of pins in said array of movable pins. 15. A system according to claim 14, wherein each column of said array of movable pins discretely engages said locking rollers to thereby facilitate unlocking said column of moveable pins. 16. A system according to claim 14, wherein each column of said array of movable pins discretely engages said locking rollers to thereby facilitate locking said column of moveable pins. 17. A system according to claim 13, wherein said array of movable pins are preloaded biased in an extended position. 18. The system of claim 13, wherein said roller locking system is completely located within said frame. 19. The system of claim 13, wherein said striker element is located external to said frame. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein each of said pins in said array of movable pins is adapted to reciprocate between an unlocked position and a locked position. 21. The device according to claim 13, wherein a pair of permanent magnets facilitates movement of said striker element. 22. The device according to claim 13, wherein a pair of solenoids facilitates movement of said striker element. 23. A system for gripping wherein said system comprises: a frame comprising an array of movable pins; a roller locking system within said frame comprising a pair of locking rollers with corresponding angled roll surfaces; and a striker element forcing said locking rollers into rolling engagement with said angled roll surfaces to lock said array of movable pins; wherein a pair of permanent magnets facilitates the rolling engagement of said locking rollers with said angled roll surfaces. 24. A system for gripping wherein said system comprises: a frame comprising an array of movable pins; a roller locking system within said frame comprising a pair of locking rollers with corresponding angled roll surfaces; and a striker element forcing said locking rollers into rolling engagement with said angled roll surfaces to lock said array of movable pins; wherein a pair of solenoid elements facilitates rolling engagement of said locking rollers with said angled roll surface. 