A spindle positioning apparatus for a robotic manipulator. The spindle positioning apparatus includes a mounting plate assembly, first and second spindles, and an actuator mechanism. The first spindle is disposed on the mounting plate assembly in a fixed position. The second spindle is disposed on the mounting plate assembly and is movable with respect to the first spindle. The actuator mechanism is adapted to move the second spindle with respect to the first spindle.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A spindle positioning apparatus for a robotic manipulator comprising: a mounting plate assembly attached to the robotic manipulator, the mounting plate assembly having a fixed plate disposed proximate the robotic manipulator and a movable plate movably attached to the fixed plate; a first spindle disposed on the fixed plate in a fixed position and having a first axis of rotation; a second spindle disposed on the movable plate and movable with respect to the first spindle, the second spindle having a second axis of rotation; and an actuator mechanism adapted to position the second spindle with respect to the first spindle; wherein the first and second axes of rotation are disposed in a common plane that does not intersect a location where the mounting plate assembly is attached to the robotic manipulator. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the mounting plate assembly includes a linear slot and the movable plate includes a pin that extends into the linear slot to help guide movement of the movable plate. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first spindle extends through the fixed plate and the second spindle extends through the movable plate. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the actuator mechanism is disposed on a first side of the mounting plate assembly and the robotic manipulator is disposed on a second side of the mounting plate assembly disposed opposite the first side. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the actuator mechanism further comprises a ball screw assembly having a ball nut and a ball screw, and a servo motor adapted to rotate the ball screw to actuate the ball nut. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the ball nut is attached to the movable plate and the ball screw is attached to the fixed plate. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first spindle has a first axis of rotation, the second spindle has a second axis of rotation, and a distance between the first and second axes of rotation is in the range of 75 mm to 1400 mm. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first spindle is adapted to rotate about a first axis of rotation, the second spindle is adapted to rotate about a second axis of rotation, and the first and second axes of rotation are disposed parallel each other. 9. A spindle positioning apparatus for a robotic manipulator comprising: a first mounting plate assembly attached to the robotic manipulator and having a first opening; a second mounting plate assembly movably attached to the first mounting plate and having a second opening; a first spindle extending through the first opening and attached to the first mounting plate assembly; a second spindle extending through the second opening and attached to the second mounting plate assembly; and an actuator mechanism configured to position the second spindle with respect to the first spindle. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a track disposed proximate the first mounting plate assembly and adapted to movably receive the second mounting plate assembly. 11. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the actuator mechanism further comprises a ball screw assembly having a ball nut and a ball screw, and a servo motor adapted to rotate the ball screw to actuate the ball nut, wherein the actuator mechanism is disposed on a bottom side of the first mounting plate assembly disposed opposite the robotic manipulator. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the ball screw is attached to the first mounting plate assembly and the ball nut is attached to the second mounting plate assembly. 13. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the first mounting plate assembly includes a fixed plate attached to the robotic manipulator and an extension plate that extends from a side of the fixed plate, wherein the first opening is provided in the extension plate. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the extension plate and the second mounting plate assembly extend from a common side of the fixed plate. 