A control system for a robotic device maneuverable in at least a liquid medium, the system having at least one visual sensor retrieving an image of the device's environment, an image analyzing module receiving the image, determining a presence of an object of a given type therein and analyzing at least one property of the object, a motion calculator determining a desired motion of the device based on the property, and a controller operating a propulsion system of the device to obtain the desired motion. Also, a legged robotic device having a control system including at least one sensor providing data about an environment of the device, the control system using sensor data to determine a desired motion of the device, determining a corresponding required leg motion of each of the legs to produce the desired motion and actuating the legs in accordance with the corresponding required leg motion.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A control system for a robotic device maneuverable in at least a liquid medium, the control system comprising: at least one visual sensor retrieving an image of an environment of the device in the liquid medium; an image analyzing module receiving the image, determining a presence of an object of a given type therein and analyzing at least one property of the object; a motion calculator determining a desired motion of the device based on the at least one property of the object, the motion calculator including an angular controller which calculates a required angular displacement necessary to achieve said desired motion of the device, wherein the angular controller includes at least a yaw controller calculating a required yaw of the device and a pitch controller calculating a required pitch of the device, the desired motion including the required yaw and the required pitch; and a controller operating a propulsion system of the device to obtain the desired motion. 2. The control system according to claim 1, wherein the propulsion system of the device include a series of legs each movable in at least an oscillatory motion to produce a propulsive force in the liquid medium, the controller calculating a respective required leg motion of each of the legs to obtain the desired motion of the device and operating each of the legs based on the respective required leg motion calculated. 3. The control system according to claim 1, wherein the desired motion of the device includes one of movement in at least one at six degrees of freedom and station keeping. 4. The control system according to claim 1, wherein, the motion calculator is programmed upon reception of the at least one property to memorize a series of at least two consecutive stops, each step including one of movement in at least one of six degrees of freedom and station keeping, the desired motion successively corresponding to each of the consecutive step. 5. The control system according to claim 1, wherein the image analyzing module determines an identify of the object from a given list of possible objects of the given type, the motion calculator determining the desired motion of the device from the list where a different desired motion is associated with each of at least some of the possible objects of the given type. 6. The control system according to claim 1, wherein the image analyzing module determines a position of the object on the image and compares the position to a desired position, and the motion calculator determining the desired motion of the device such as to change the position to correspond to the desired position. 7. The control system according to claim 6, wherein the object is moving, and the desired motion of the device allows the device to follow the object. 8. The control system according to claim 1, wherein the yaw and pitch controllers are PID controllers. 9. A robotic device for navigating in at least a liquid medium, the robotic device comprising: a body; legged propulsion system having a series of legs external of the body, each of the legs being driven by an actuator and mounted to the body for pivotal movement about a. respective transverse axis, each of the legs being operable to at least oscillate relative to the body about the respective transverse axis such that interaction between the legs and the liquid medium produces propulsive forces that displace the robotic device within the liquid medium; and a control system including at least one sensor providing data about an environment of the device, tire control system using data thin the at least one sensor to determine a desired motion of the robotic device, a motion calculator of the control system including a controller which calculates a required displacement necessary to achieve said desired motion, wherein the controller is an annular controller which includes at least a yaw controller calculating a required yaw of the device and a pitch controller calculating a required pitch of the device, the desired motion including an angular displacement having the required yaw and the required pitch, the control system determining a corresponding required leg motion of each of the legs to produce the required displacement and therefore said desired motion, and actuating the actuators such as to displace each of the legs in accordance with the corresponding required leg motion. 10. The robotic device according to claim 9, wherein the desired motion of the device includes one of movement in at least one of six degrees of freedom and station keeping. 11. The robotic device according to claim 9, wherein the desired motion includes a series of at least two consecutive steps, each step including one of movement in at least on of six decrees of freedom and station keeping. 12. The robotic device according to claim 9, wherein the at least one sensor includes a visual sensor retrieving an image of an environment of the device. the control system determining a presence of an object of a given type in the image. determining an identity of the object from a given list of possible objects of the given type, and determining the desired motion associated with the identity. of the object in the list. 13. The robotic device according to claim 9, wherein the at least one sensor includes a visual sensor retrieving an image of an environment of the device. the control system determining a presence or an object of a given type in the image, determining a position of the object on the image and comparing the position to a desired position, and determining the desired motion of the device such as to change the position to correspond to the desired position. 14. The robotic device according to claim 9, wherein the at least one sensor includes at least one of a visual sensor and an inertial sensor. 15. The robotic device according to claim 9, wherein each of the legs is also operable to rotate about the respective transverse axis such that interaction between the legs and a solid medium allows the robotic device to move on the solid medium. 16. An amphibious robotic device comprising: a body; a legged propulsion system having a series of legs external of the body, each of said legs being driving by an actuator and mounted to the body for pivotal movement about a respective transverse axis in one of at least a swimming mode and a walking mode said legs being configured to oscillate relative to the transverse axis in said swimming mode when the device is in a liquid medium such that interaction between said legs and the liquid medium provides propulsive forces that displace the vehicle body with a desired motion within the liquid medium, said legs being configured to rotate relative to the transverse axis in said walking mode when the device is on a solid medium such that interaction between said legs and the solid medium provides propulsive forces that displace the vehicle body in a desired direction on the solid medium, and wherein each of said legs defines at least two members pivotally interconnected to relatively pivot about a pivot axis parallel to the respective transverse axis, and each legs includes an elastic material extending throughout the members and providing resistance to a relative pivoting motion of the members about the pivot axis such as to allow the legs to support a weight of the body upon walking on the solid medium; and a control system having a least one sensor operable to detect with which of the liquid medium and the solid medium the robotic device is interacting and a leg controller synchronously operating said legs in either one of the swimming mode and the walking mode based on the detected medium, the control system including a motion calculator having an angular controller operative at least when the less operating in said swimming mode, the angular controller calculating a required angular displacement of the robotic device necessary to achieve said desired motion. 17. The amphibious robotic device according to claim 16 wherein the at least one sensor includes an inertial sensor. 18. The amphibious robotic device according to claim 16, wherein the resistance to the relative pivoting motion of the members increases as the members pivot away from an aligned position. 19. A robotic device for navigating in at least a liquid medium, the robotic device comprising: a body; a legged propulsion system having a series of legs external of the body, each of said legs being driven by an actuator and mounted to the body for pivotal movement about a respective transverse axis, earn of the legs being operable to at least oscillate relative to the body about the respective transverse axis such that interaction between the legs and the liquid medium produces propulsive forces that displace the robotic device within the liquid medium; and a control system allowing the robotic device to perform a station keeping operation by computing a desired thrust at each legs along a yaw axis and a roll axis of the device, combining the desired thrust along the yaw and roll axes to determine a selected thrust angle and thrust magnitude rotating each of the legs at a rate generating a pressure drag consistent with the desired thrust when a difference between the selected thrust angle and a current leg angle is greater than a given angle value, and increasing an oscillation amplitude of each of the legs up to the thrust magnitude when the difference between the selected thrust angle and the current leg angle is at most the given angle value. 20. The robotic device according to claim 19, wherein the control system limits die rang of thrust angle for each lea to a region of 180.degree. and gradually moves each of the legs to a stand-by range of 90.degree. located within the thrust angle range when a demanded thrust for the leg reaches zero. 21. A device for selectively navigation on a solid medium and in a liquid medium, the device comprising: a body; and a series of legs attached to the body to rotate about a respective rotational axis extending transversely to the body, each leg including at least one rigid frame extending in a plane substantially perpendicular to the respective rotational axis and a flexible member disposed substantially perpendicular to the at least one rigid frame, the device being propelled, on the solid medium through a rotational motion of each leg about the respective rotational axis causing intermittent engagement of the at least one rigid frame with the solid medium, and the device being propelled in be liquid medium through an oscillatory motion of each leg about the respective rotational axis causing the flexible member to produce a propulsive force through interaction thereof with the liquid medium, and wherein the at least one rigid frame of each legs defines at least two members pivotally interconnected to relatively pivot about a pivot axis parallel to the respective rotational axis, and the flexible member of each leg includes an elative material attached to the at least one frame and providing resistance to a relative pivoting motion of the members about the pivot axis such as to allow the legs to support a weight of the body upon propulsion on the solid medium. 22. The device according to claim 21, wherein the resistance to the relative pivoting in motion of the members increases as the members pivot away from an aligned position. 