The invention relates to methods and compositions for identifying soybean plants that are tolerant, have improved tolerance or are susceptible to Sclerotinia sp. infection (the causative agent of white mold). The methods use molecular genetic markers to identify, select and/or construct disease-tolerant plants or identify and counterselect disease-susceptible plants. Soybean plants that display tolerance or improved tolerance to Sclerotinia sp. infection that are generated by the methods of the invention are also a feature of the invention.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of identifying a first soybean plant or germplasm that displays tolerance, or improved tolerance to Sclerotinia sp. infection, the method comprising detecting in the first soybean plant or germplasm an allele of a marker locus that is associated with the tolerance, or improved tolerance, wherein the marker locus comprises the marker locus (a) S60817-TB and/or (b) a marker locus on linkage group F with a genetic recombination frequency of less than 20% with S60817-TB. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the marker locus is selected from the group consisting of S60817-TB, BLT010.sub.--1, Satt423, AW186493, BE806387, Sat240, Satt659, Satt206, Sat.sub.--039, WI, BLT057.sub.--1, DUBC767, Sat.sub.--298, and Satt160. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the marker locus associated with tolerance, or improved tolerance is marker locus S60817-TB. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the germplasm is a soybean line or soybean variety. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the tolerance, or improved tolerance to Sclerotinia stem rot is assayed in a field location previously known to produce soybean plants that demonstrate Sclerotinia stem rot, by a stem lesion assay or by a detached leaf assay. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the Sclerotinia sp. is Sclerotinia sclerotiotum (Lib.) de Bary. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the tolerance or improved tolerance is a non-race specific tolerance or a non-race specific improved tolerance. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting comprises detecting at least one allelic form of a polymorphic simple sequence repeat (SSR) or a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting comprises amplifying the marker locus or a portion of the marker locus and detecting the resulting amplified marker amplicon. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the amplifying comprises: a) admixing an amplification primer or amplification primer pair with a nucleic acid isolated from the first soybean plant or germplasm, wherein the primer or primer pair is complementary or partially complementary to at least a portion of the marker locus, and is capable of initiating DNA polymerization by a DNA polymerase using the soybean nucleic acid as a template; and, b) extending the primer or primer pair in a DNA polymerization reaction comprising a DNA polymerase and a template nucleic acid to generate at least one amplicon. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the nucleic acid is selected from DNA and RNA. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one allele is an SNP allele, the method comprising detecting the SNP using allele specific hybridization (ASH) analysis. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the amplifying comprises employing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or ligase chain reaction (LCR) using a nucleic acid isolated from the first soybean plant or germplasm as a template in the PCR or LCR. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one allele comprises S60817-TB:allele-2. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one allele is a favorable allele that positively correlates with tolerance or improved tolerance. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the marker locus is determined using the mapping population 9163/92B05. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the linked marker locus is determined using software selected from TASSEL, GeneFlow and MapManager-QTX. 18. The method of claim 1, comprising selecting the first soybean plant or germplasm, or selecting a progeny of the first soybean plant or germplasm. 19. The method of claim 18, comprising crossing the selected first soybean plant or germplasm with a second soybean plant or germplasm. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the second soybean plant or germplasm comprises an exotic soybean strain or an elite soybean strain. 21. A method of identifying a first soybean plant or germplasm that displays tolerance, or improved tolerance to Sclerotinia sp. infection, the method comprising detecting in the first soybean plant or germplasm an allele of a marker locus that is associated with the tolerance, or improved tolerance, wherein the marker locus is defined by marker S60817-TB and/or a marker locus on linkage group F with a genetic recombination frequency of less than 20% with S60817-TB; and additionally detecting in the first soybean plant or germplasm at least one allele of the marker locus SATT243. 22. The method of claim 21, wherein the at least one allele of each selected marker locus is correlated with tolerance or improved tolerance to Sclerotinia sp. infection, the method further comprising introgressing the allele in the first soybean plant or germplasm into a second soybean plant or germplasm to produce an introgressed soybean plant or germplasm. 