The invention provides proteins attached to solid supports, and methods of preparing such solid support-bound proteins are provided. The proteins are attached to solid supports by means of an unnatural amino acid incorporated into the protein, which unnatural amino acid includes a reactive group that can react with a second reactive group that is attached to a solid support.
Claims We claim: 1. A protein array comprising a polypeptide attached to a solid support, wherein the polypeptide comprises (a) at least a first reactive unnatural amino acid comprising a first side chain comprising a first reactive group, and (b) a second unnatural amino acid comprising a second side chain, wherein the first side chain structure is different from the second side chain structure; wherein the polypeptide comprising the first reactive unnatural amino acid comprising the first side chain comprising the first reactive group and the second unnatural amino acids comprising the second side chain is produced in a cell before attachment to the solid support, wherein the polypeptide is attached to the solid support by a covalent chemical linkage produced by reacting the first reactive group with a second reactive group that is attached to the solid support; and, wherein the second unnatural amino acid in the polypeptide is not reactive with the second reactive group on the solid support; and, wherein the first reactive group comprises an electrophile, a keto or an aldehyde moiety and the second reactive group is a nucleophile moiety; or alternatively, the first reactive group is a nucleophile moiety and the second reactive group comprises and electrophile, a keto or an aldehyde moiety. 2. The protein array of claim 1, wherein the chemical linkage comprises an oxime, an amide, a hydrazone, a carbohydrazone, a thiocarbohydrazone, a sufonylhydrazone, a semicarbazone or a thiosemicarbazone. 3. The protein array of claim 2, wherein the chemical linkage comprises a reduced hydrazone. 4. The protein array of claim 1, wherein the chemical linkage is the product of a dipolarophile reaction. 5. The protein array of claim 1, wherein one or more of the attached polypeptides is at least 50 amino acids in length. 6. The protein array of claim 5, wherein one or more of the attached polypeptides is at least 100 amino acids in length. 7. The protein array of claim 5, wherein at least 50% of the attached polypeptides are at least 50 amino acids in length. 8. The protein array of claim 7, wherein at least 50% of the attached polypeptides are at least 100 amino acids in length. 9. The protein array of claim 1, wherein at least one of the attached polypeptides is a full length polypeptide. 10. The protein array of claim 1, wherein at least one of the attached polypeptides is a fragment or portion of a full length polypeptide. 11. The protein array of claim 1, wherein said array comprises a plurality of different polypeptides. 12. The protein array of claim 11, wherein said array comprises at least 10 different polypeptides. 13. The protein array of claim 12, wherein said array comprises at least 100 different polypeptides. 14. The protein array of claim 13, wherein said array comprises at least 1000 different polypeptides. 15. The protein array of claim 1, wherein said protein array is a logical array. 16. The protein array of claim 1, wherein said protein array comprises a microwell plate. 17. The protein array of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is affixed to a bead that comprises a solid support. 18. The protein array of claim 1, wherein at least one of the attached polypeptides is subjected to posttranslational processing. 19. The protein array of claim 18, wherein posttranslational processing comprises glycosylation, phosphorylation, acetylation, methylation, myristoylation, prenylation, or proteolytic processing. 20. The protein array of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is homologous to a native polypeptide. 21. The protein array of claim 1, wherein said polypeptide is produced using a translation system comprising a nucleotide sequence comprising a selector codon, an orthogonal suppressor tRNA that comprises an anticodon loop complementary to the selector codon, and an aminoacyl tRNA synthetase that preferentially aminoacylates said tRNA with an unnatural amino acid, and where the unnatural amino acid is incorporated into the polypeptide at the site of the selector codon. 22. The protein array of claim 1, wherein the second unnatural amino acid comprises a reactive group other than a maleimide. 23. The protein array of claim 1, wherein the second unnatural amino acid does not comprise a linker group. 24. The protein array of claim 1, wherein the first unnatural amino acid is attached to the solid support through a linker group. 25. The protein array of claim 24, wherein the linker group is attached to the solid support through a solid support reactive group. 26. The protein array of claim 1, wherein the second unnatural amino acid is other than an analog of cysteine. 27. The protein array of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide is produced by translation in the cell. 