Methods of depositing and curing a dielectric material on a substrate are described. The methods may include the steps of providing a processing chamber partitioned into a first plasma region and a second plasma region, and delivering the substrate to the processing chamber, where the substrate occupies a portion of the second plasma region. The methods may further include forming a first plasma in the first plasma region, where the first plasma does not directly contact with the substrate, and depositing the dielectric material on the substrate to form a dielectric layer. One or more reactants excited by the first plasma are used in the deposition of the dielectric material. The methods may additional include curing the dielectric layer by forming a second plasma in the second plasma region, where one or more carbon-containing species is removed from the dielectric layer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of depositing and curing a dielectric material on a substrate, the method comprising the steps of: providing a processing chamber partitioned into a first plasma region and a second plasma region; delivering the substrate to the processing chamber, wherein the substrate occupies a portion of the second plasma region; forming a first plasma in the first plasma region while forming little or no plasma in the second plasma region, wherein the first plasma does not directly contact with the substrate; depositing the dielectric material on the substrate to form a dielectric layer, wherein one or more reactants excited by the first plasma react with a silicon-containing precursor to deposit the dielectric material, wherein the silicon-containing precursor further comprises carbon and is supplied directly to the second plasma region; and curing the dielectric layer by forming a second plasma in the second plasma region, wherein one or more carbon-containing species is removed from the dielectric layer. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first plasma is formed from a process gas comprising at least one gas selected from the group consisting of O.sub.2, O.sub.3, N.sub.2O, NO, NO.sub.2, NH.sub.3, NH.sub.4OH, silane, disilane, TSA, DSA, --H.sub.2, N.sub.2, H.sub.2O.sub.2 and water vapor. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises etching the dielectric layer with a halogen-containing etchant. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the halogen-containing etchant comprise fluorine. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the second plasma is formed from a process gas comprising at least one gas selected from the group consisting of O.sub.2, O.sub.3, N.sub.2O, NO, NO.sub.2, NH.sub.3, NH.sub.4OH, N.sub.xH.sub.y, silane, disilane, TSA, DSA, H.sub.2, N.sub.2, H.sub.2O.sub.2 and water vapor. 