A robotic vehicle including a chassis having front and rear ends, an electric power source supported by the chassis, and multiple drive assemblies supporting the chassis. Each drive assembly including a track trained about a corresponding drive wheel and a drive control module. The drive control module including a drive control housing, a drive motor carried by the drive control housing and operable to drive the track, and a drive motor controller in communication with the drive motor. The drive motor controller including a motor controller logic circuit and an amplifier commutator in communication with the drive motor and the motor controller logic circuit and is capable of delivering both amplified and reduced voltage to the drive motor from the power source. In one instance, the drive control module is separately and independently removable from a receptacle of the chassis as a complete unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic vehicle comprising: a chassis having front and rear ends; an electric power source supported by the chassis; and a drive control module comprising: a drive control housing; a drive motor carried by the drive control housing; and a drive motor controller in communication with the drive motor and comprising: a drive motor controller logic circuit; and an amplifier commutator comprising a commutator in communication with the drive motor and a DC/DC converter capable of delivering both amplified and reduced voltage relative to an input voltage from the power source to the commutator; wherein the amplifier commutator further comprises a programmable logic circuit in communication with the drive motor controller logic circuit, DC/DC converter, and commutator; wherein the drive control module further comprises: multiple magnetic field sensors mounted radially about to the motor, the magnetic field sensors detecting magnetic pulses; a velocity sensor connected to the motor; and a rotary position sensor connected to the motor; wherein the drive motor controller logic circuit comprises logic for three cascading control loops comprising motor current, motor voltage, and motor rotor rotation; and wherein the motor rotor rotation control loop of the drive motor controller logic circuit comprises: reading a rotational position feedback from the rotary position sensor; computing a commanded velocity based on current and velocity limits; and writing the commanded velocity to a shared structure accessible by the other control loops. 2. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the drive control module further comprises a back-drivable gearbox coupling the motor to a track. 3. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the drive motor controller further comprises a health monitor capable of monitoring the proper functioning of the drive motor controller logic circuit and the amplifier commutator, the health monitor capable of sending a signal to the amplifier commutator to cease operation of the motor upon detecting a malfunction. 4. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, further comprising a robot controller in communication with the drive control module. 5. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the DC/DC converter receives about 42 V from the power source and is capable of delivering between about 0 V and about 150 V. 6. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the power source comprises three 14 V batteries in series and three 14 V batteries in parallel, providing about 42 V. 7. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the drive control module is separately and independently removable from a receptacle of the chassis as a complete unit. 8. The robotic vehicle of claim 7, wherein the drive control module is sealed within the receptacle of the chassis from an outside environment and cooled. 9. A robotic vehicle comprising: a chassis having front and rear ends; an electric power source supported by the chassis; and a drive control module comprising: a drive control housing; a drive motor carried by the drive control housing; and a drive motor controller in communication with the drive motor and comprising: a drive motor controller logic circuit; and an amplifier commutator comprising a commutator in communication with the drive motor and a DC/DC converter capable of delivering both amplified and reduced voltage relative to an input voltage from the power source to the commutator; wherein the amplifier commutator further comprises a programmable logic circuit in communication with the drive motor controller logic circuit, DC/DC converter, and commutator; wherein the drive control module further comprises: multiple magnetic field sensors mounted radially about to the motor, the magnetic field sensors detecting magnetic pulses; a velocity sensor connected to the motor; and a rotary position sensor connected to the motor; wherein the drive motor controller logic circuit comprises logic for three cascading control loops comprising motor current, motor voltage, and motor rotor rotation; and wherein the current control loop of the drive motor controller logic circuit comprises: reading a current feedback from the commutator; reading the magnetic field sensors; computing a pulse-width modulation output; writing the pulse-width modulation output to a shared structure accessible by the other control loops; and updating a cycle counter. 10. A robotic vehicle comprising: a chassis having front and rear ends; an electric power source supported by the chassis; and a drive control module comprising: a drive control housing; a drive motor carried by the drive control housing; and a drive motor controller in communication with the drive motor and comprising: a drive motor controller logic circuit; and an amplifier commutator comprising a commutator in communication with the drive motor and a DC/DC converter capable of delivering both amplified and reduced voltage relative to an input voltage from the power source to the commutator; wherein the amplifier commutator further comprises a programmable logic circuit in communication with the drive motor controller logic circuit, DC/DC converter, and commutator; wherein the drive control module further comprises: multiple magnetic field sensors mounted radially about to the motor, the magnetic field sensors detecting magnetic pulses; a velocity sensor connected to the motor; and a rotary position sensor connected to the motor; wherein the drive motor controller logic circuit comprises logic for three cascading control loops comprising motor current, motor voltage, and motor rotor rotation; and wherein the voltage control loop of the drive motor controller logic circuit comprises: reading a velocity feedback from the velocity sensor; reading a voltage feedback from the DC/DC converter; computing a commanded current based on a current limit, maximum current from a thermal protection model, and a current rate of change limit; and writing the commanded current to a shared structure accessible by the other control loops. 