A trench box, including a pair of oppositely disposed parallel elongated sidewalls defining a work volume, distal and proximal support members extending between the sidewalls, and a track positioned between the sidewalls. Track adjusting members extend between the track and the support members and a movable tram connecting plate is connected to the track. An actuator is coupled to the track and energizable to move the tram connecting plate and a tool module is operationally connectable to the tram connecting plate. A pipe dispensing assembly and a gravel hopper assembly are positionable within the working volume.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A trench box assembly, comprising in combination: a trench box, further comprising: a pair of oppositely disposed parallel elongated sidewalls defining a work volume therebetween; a pair of spaced support members extending between the sidewalls; a drag bar operationally connected to the trench box; and a top rim operationally connected to the sidewalls; a pipe dispensing assembly positionable within the work volume and further comprising: a pair of oppositely disposed parallel elongated support members defining a pipe storage volume sized to hold a plurality of pipe segments therebetween; at least one end member extending between the parallel elongated support members; a first top rim engaging member extending from at least one of the parallel elongated support members for coupling the pipe dispensing assembly to the trench box; a top member pivotably coupled to at least one of the parallel elongated support members; and a bottom member extending at least partially between the parallel elongated support members and defining a pipe dispensing aperture; a gravel hopper assembly positionable within the work volume and further comprising: a pair of oppositely disposed parallel elongated side panels defining a gravel storage volume therebetween; at least one end panel extending between the side panels; a second top rim engaging member extending from at least one of the parallel elongated support members for coupling the pipe dispensing assembly to the trench box; a top panel pivotably coupled to one of the side panels; a bottom panel pivotably coupled to one of the side panels and sized to extend between the side panels; and an actuator operationally coupled to the bottom panel; wherein energization of the actuator pivots the bottom panel between a first position and a second position; a service tram assembly positioned in the work volume and further comprising: a track positioned between the pair of oppositely disposed parallel elongated sidewalls; at least one track support member extending between the sidewalls; a plurality of spaced apart fluidic actuators extending between the track and the at least one track support member; a tram connecting plate operationally connected to the track and movable along the track; a tram actuator coupled to the track and energizable to move the tram connecting plate along the track; and a tool module operationally connectable to the tram connecting plate; wherein the fluidic actuators are energizable to adjust a position of the track; wherein the trench box defines a substantially open bottom area; and wherein the pipe dispensing assembly deposits pipe directly onto the ground. 2. The assembly of claim 1 and further comprising a tool conveyor assembly for vertically moving tools connected in the work volume. 3. The assembly of claim 1 and further comprising a pipe grappler assembly for manipulating pipe segments connected in the work volume. 4. The assembly of claim 1 and further comprising a stone grader assembly connected in the work volume. 5. The assembly of claim 1 and further comprising: a cab enclosure connected to the top rim; a controller connected in the cab enclosure; a first set of sensors operationally connected to the controller and positioned in the pipe dispensing assembly; a second set of sensors operationally connected to the controller and positioned in the gravel hopper assembly; a third set of sensors operationally connected to the controller and positioned in the service tram assembly; wherein the controller is operationally connected to the panel actuator, the fluidic actuators and to the tram actuator. 6. The assembly of claim 1 and further comprising pivoting actuators operationally coupled to the top member, the top panel and the bottom panel, respectively. 7. The assembly of claim 6 wherein the pivoting actuators are hydraulic cylinder assemblies. 8. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the tool module is selected from the group consisting of pipe grappler, rock cutter, compactor, pipe cleaner, sledge hammer, tee fitter, jack hammer, dozer blade, and robot arm. 9. The assembly of claim 1 wherein the plurality of spaced apart fluidic actuators includes three actuators, wherein two of the actuators are connected to the track and positioned opposite the track from each other, and wherein the third actuator is spaced down the track from the other two. 10. A trench box device, comprising in combination: a pair of oppositely disposed parallel elongated sidewalls, each wall having a proximal end and a distal end and defining a substantially bottomless work volume therebetween; a distal track support member extending between the sidewalls; a proximal track support member extending between the sidewalls; a track positioned between the pair of oppositely disposed parallel elongated sidewalls; a first track adjusting member extending between the track and the distal track support member; a second track adjusting member extending between the track and the distal track support member; a third track adjusting member extending between the track and the proximal track support member; a tram connecting plate operationally connected to the track and movable along the track; a tram actuator coupled to the track and energizable to move the tram connecting plate along the track; and a tool module operationally connectable to the tram connecting plate; wherein the track is positioned between the first and second track adjusting members; wherein the first, the second, and the third track adjusting members are energizable to level the track. 11. The device of claim 10 wherein the track adjusting members are fluidic cylinders. 12. The device of claim 10 wherein the track adjusting members are solenoids. 13. The device of claim 10 wherein the tool module is selected from the group consisting of pipe grappler, rock cutter, compactor, pipe cleaner, sledge hammer, tee fitter, jack hammer, dozer blade, and robot arm. 14. A modular trench box apparatus, comprising in combination: a trench box defining an open bottomed work volume therein; a drag bar operationally connected to the trench box; and a top rim operationally connected to the trench box; a pipe dispensing module positionable within the work volume and further comprising: a pair of oppositely disposed parallel elongated support members defining a pipe storage volume therebetween; at least one end member extending between the elongated support members; a first top rim engaging member extending from a respective elongated support member for coupling the pipe dispensing module to the trench box; and a bottom member extending at least partially between the elongated support members and defining a pipe dispensing aperture; a gravel hopper module positionable within the work volume and further comprising: a pair of oppositely disposed parallel elongated side panels defining a gravel storage volume therebetween; at least one end panel extending between the side panels; a second top rim engaging member extending from a respective elongated support member for coupling the pipe dispensing module to the trench box; a bottom panel pivotably coupled to one of the side panels and sized to extend between the side panels; and an actuator operationally coupled to the bottom panel; wherein the pipe dispensing module is sized to hold a plurality of pipe segments; wherein energization of the actuator pivots the bottom panel between a first position and a second position. 15. A modular gravel hopper and pipe-dispenser assembly for use in a trench box apparatus, comprising in combination: a pipe dispensing module for holding and dispensing a plurality of pipe segments positionable within the trench box and further comprising: a pair of oppositely disposed parallel elongated support members defining a pipe storage volume therebetween; at least one end member extending between the elongated support members; a first top rim engaging member extending from one of the elongated support members for coupling the pipe dispensing module to the trench box; and a bottom member extending at least partially between the elongated support members and defining a pipe dispensing aperture; a gravel hopper module connected to the pipe-dispensing module and further comprising: a pair of oppositely disposed parallel elongated side panels defining a gravel storage volume therebetween; at least one end panel extending between the side panels; a second top rim engaging member extending from one of the support members for coupling the pipe dispensing module to the trench box; a bottom panel pivotably coupled to one of the side panels and sized to extend between the side panels; and an actuator operationally coupled to the bottom panel; wherein energization of the actuator pivots the bottom panel between a first position and a second position. 16. The modular gravel hopper and pipe-dispenser assembly of claim 15 wherein a respective elongated support member is unitary with a respective elongated side panel. 17. A method of laying pipe in a trench, comprising: a) digging a trench segment; b) connecting the modular hopper and pipe dispenser assembly as recited in claim 16 to a trench box; c) positioning the trench box in the trench segment; d) loading the hopper module with stone; e) loading the pipe dispensing module with pipe segments; f) orienting a track at a predetermined slope; g) dropping the stone into the trench; h) grading the stone; i) dropping one of the pipe segments into the trench; j) grappling one of the pipe segments; k) moving one of the pipe segments into desired joining position; l) joining adjacent pipe segments; m) covering the joined pipe segment with the stone; and n) advancing the trench box into a newly dug trench segment. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: o) connecting a compaction head to the track; and p) compacting the stone. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein step f) includes calibrating the track orientation with lasers. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein step f) includes calibrating the track orientation using a global positioning system. 21. The method of claim 17, and further comprising: q) connecting a dozer head to the track; and r) grading the trench. 22. The method of claim 17, and further comprising: s) before g), measuring a volume of the trench; and t) calculating an amount of stone required to sufficiently fill the trench to support one of the pipe segments for joining. 23. The method of claim 17, and further comprising: u) before j), connecting a grappler head to the track. 24. The method of claim 17, and further comprising: v) before k), locating a connection bell portion of a previously laid pipe segment; and w) before m), verifying a previously laid pipe segment is positioned at desired grade. 25. The method of claim 17, and further comprising: x) after m) and before n), generating a signal indicative of successful completion of m). 