Image processing is used to determine information about the position of a designated object, particularly where the object is difficult to view or locate. In particular, use in endoscopic surgery can determine positional information about an anatomical feature within a patient's body. The positional information is then used to position or reposition a surgical instrument in relation to the designated object. An instrument placed in relation to the designated object is capable of sending information about the object to a computer. Image processing generates images and determines positional information, which can be used as input to robotic devices or rendered to a human user.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of controlling the position of a surgical instrument inside a patient's body the comprising steps of: inserting a first surgical instrument into the patient's body, the instrument having a means for transmitting an image out of the patient's body; designating an anatomical feature of interest; transmitting an image of the designated anatomical feature out of the patient's body; determining precise 3D positional information about the designated anatomical feature of interest relative to the first surgical instrument; using the positional information to reposition the first surgical instrument to a desired positional relationship relative to the anatomical feature, where the positional information about the anatomical feature of interest relative to the first surgical instrument is obtained by manipulating a graphics object superimposed on an image of the anatomical feature. 2. A method of controlling the position of a surgical instrument inside a patient's body, as in claim 1, where the positional information about the feature of interest relative to the first surgical instrument is obtained by means of image processing. 3. A method of controlling the position of a surgical instrument inside a patient's body, as in claim 1, where the positional information is used to reposition a second surgical instrument. 4. A method of controlling the position of a surgical instrument inside a patient's body, as in claim 1, further comprising steps of: designating a desired position of an anatomical feature relative to images transmitted out of the patient's body by the first surgical instrument; moving the first surgical instrument to a vantage point form which the designated anatomical feature is at the desired position in images transmitted by the first surgical instrument, the first surgical instrument remaining at a constant distance from the designated anatomical feature. 5. A method of controlling the position of a surgical instrument inside a patient's body, as in claim 1, further comprising steps of: designating a desired direction of motion of an anatomical feature relative to images transmitted out of the patient's body by the first surgical instrument; moving the first surgical instrument so that it remains at a constant distance from the designated anatomical feature while causing the motion of the designated feature in images transmitted from the first surgical instrument to move in the desired direction. 6. A method of controlling the position of a surgical instrument inside a patient's body, comprising steps of: inserting a first surgical instrument into the patient's body, the instrument having a means for transmitting an image out of the patient's body; designating an increment of motion along an axis of view of the first surgical instrument, the axis defined by a line from the vantage point of the surgical instrument to the point on the patient's anatomy that appears in the center of the image transmitted by the first surgical instrument; moving the first surgical instrument by the designated increment of motion along the axis of view, so that the point on the patient's anatomy appearing in the center of the image remains unchanged. 