The present invention generally comprises an apparatus that allows an RFID antenna to obtain information from an RFID tag mounted on a container. The apparatus reproduces the RF field generated by the antenna to a location proximate to the RFID tag. In one embodiment, the apparatus comprises a pickup device and a reproduction device electrically coupled with the pickup device. In another embodiment, the apparatus comprises at least one magnetic rod, which creates a magnetic path for the RF field to travel between the antenna and the RFID tag. In another embodiment, the apparatus comprises a pickup antenna and a reproduction antenna for transmitting the RF signal from the antenna proximate to the RFID tag.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus that allows a radio frequency identification transmitting device to obtain information from a radio frequency identification tag mounted to a container when seated in a storage location, comprising: a reproduction device positioned relative to the storage location such that, when the container is seated in the storage location, the radio frequency identification tag mounted to the container is proximate to said reproduction device wherein the reproduction device is mounted to the storage location and is separate from the container; a pickup device positioned relative to the storage location such that an antenna of the radio frequency identification transmitting device can be maneuvered proximate to said pickup device, wherein the pick-up device position is fixed in relation to the storage location; the radio frequency identification transmitting device transmitting a radio frequency signal to the radio frequency identification tag mounted to the container through said pickup device and said reproduction devices, wherein the transmitting device is robotically maneuvered proximate to the pickup device so as to enable the pickup device to receive and transmit the radio frequency signal emitted by the transmitting device, and wherein the container with an associated radio frequency identification tag seated in the storage location is replaceable with a different container having an associated radio frequency identification tag, the reproduction device and pickup device enabling communication between the transmitting device and the radio frequency identification tag associated with the different container. 2. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said pickup device comprises a magnetic coil. 3. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said reproduction device comprises a magnetic coil. 4. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said pickup device comprises an electromagnetic antenna. 5. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said reproduction device comprises an electromagnetic antenna. 6. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said pickup device forms an electromagnetic coupling with the radio frequency identification transmitting device when the radio frequency identification transmitting device is maneuvered proximate to said pickup device. 7. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said pickup device forms a magnetic coupling with the radio frequency identification transmitting device when the radio frequency identification transmitting device is maneuvered proximate to said pickup device. 8. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said reproduction device forms an electromagnetic coupling with the radio frequency identification tag. 9. The apparatus as recited in claim 1, wherein said reproduction device forms a magnetic coupling with the radio frequency identification tag. 10. A system for obtaining information from a radio frequency identification tag mounted on a container, comprising: a container storage device having a plurality of storage locations, each one of said plurality of storage locations for storing a container; a transmitting device for emitting a radio frequency signal; a plurality of radio frequency identification bridges, each one of said plurality of radio frequency identification bridges associated with a single storage location and including: a reproduction device positioned relative to said storage location such that, when the container is seated in said storage location, the radio frequency identification tag mounted to the container is proximate to said reproduction device, wherein the reproduction device is mounted to the storage location and is separate from the container; a pickup device positioned relative to said storage location such that said transmitting device can be maneuvered proximate to said pickup device, wherein the pickup device position is fixed with relation to the storage location; wherein the transmitting device is transmitting the radio frequency signal to a radio frequency identification tag mounted to the container through said pickup device and said reproduction device; wherein said transmitting device is robotically maneuvered proximate to each said pickup device of each said radio frequency identification bridge to enable the pickup device of each of the radio frequency identification bridge to receive and transmit the radio frequency signal emitted by the transmitting device, and wherein the container with associated radio frequency identification tag at a storage location in the container storage device is replaceable from time-to-time with one of a plurality of different containers having an associated radio frequency identification tag, the reproduction device and pickup device enabling communication between the transmitting device and the radio frequency identification tag associated with a current one of the plurality of different containers. 11. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein said pickup device comprises a magnetic coil. 12. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein said reproduction device comprises a magnetic coil. 13. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein said pickup device comprises an electromagnetic antenna. 14. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein said reproduction device comprises an electromagnetic antenna. 15. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein said pickup device forms an electromagnetic coupling with said transmitting device when said transmitting device is maneuvered proximate to said pickup device. 16. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein said pickup device forms a magnetic coupling with said transmitting device when said transmitting device is maneuvered proximate to said pickup device. 17. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein said reproduction device forms an electromagnetic coupling with the radio frequency identification tag. 18. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein said reproduction device forms a magnetic coupling with the radio frequency identification tag. 