The acoustic signal transmission method is based on generating a synthesized sound electrical signal by electrically synthesizing an audible sound signal and another signal different than the audible sound signal at the sending side, and transmitting the synthesized sound electrical signal, and extracting the another signal different than the audible sound signal from the synthesized sound electrical signal at the receiving side. Here, generation of the synthesized sound electrical signal is made by using a data hiding technique, for example. Accordingly, the acoustic signal represented by the synthesized sound electrical signal can be heard by human ears in the same way as the audible sound signal, and the synthesized another signal cannot be detected by human ears. Here, the synthesized sound electrical signal can be transmitted as a sound wave in air space, as electrical signal through a transmission line or as radio signals such as infrared and electromagnetic waves.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for transmitting acoustic signals, comprising: electrically synthesizing an audible sound signal and an insertion signal so as to generate a synthesized sound electrical signal; converting the synthesized sound electrical signal and outputting an acoustic signal externally; receiving and re-converting the acoustic signal into a re-converted synthesized sound electrical signal; extracting the insertion signal from the re-converted synthesized sound electrical signal, said insertion signal being code information corresponding to a character string in a natural language; and controlling a sound generation machine according to the insertion signal extracted in said extracting, the sound generation machine pronouncing the character string in a natural language corresponding to the code information. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said controlling is performed using a command. 3. A method for transmitting acoustic signals, comprising: electrically synthesizing an audible sound signal and an insertion signal so as to generate a synthesized sound electrical signal; converting the synthesized sound electrical signal and outputting the acoustic signal; sending the synthesized sound electrical signal via a transmission path; receiving the synthesized sound electrical signal, extracting the insertion signal from the received synthesized sound electrical signal, the insertion signal being a code information corresponding to a character string in a natural language; and controlling sound generation machine according to the extracted insertion signal, the sound generation machine pronouncing the character string in a natural language corresponding to the code information. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said controlling is performed using a command. 5. A method for transmitting acoustic signals, comprising: electrical synthesizing an audible sound signal and an insertion signal into a plurality of synthesized sound electrical signals through a plurality of channels; converting each of the plurality of synthesized sound electrical signals into an acoustic signal in a respective channel; outputting externally each of the acoustic signal in the respective channel; sending each of the synthesized sound electrical signals in the respective channel through a corresponding transmission path; receiving the plurality of synthesized sound electrical signals in individual channels; extracting the insertion signal from the received synthesized sound electrical signals; and controlling an operation of a machine using the extracted insertion signal such that the machine operates in synchronization with the audible sound signal, wherein the machine is a robot, the audible sound signal is a music signal, and the robot is controlled so as to dance in synchronization with the music signal. 6. An apparatus for receiving a radio signal which is generated by modulating with a synthesized sound electrical signal, said synthesized sound electrical signal being generated by electrically synthesizing an audible sound signal and an insertion signal, said apparatus for receiving a radio signal comprising: a demodulating apparatus for demodulating the radio signal to generate the synthesized sound electrical signal; an acoustic signal outputting apparatus for converting the synthesized sound electrical signal into an acoustic signal and outputting the acoustic signal; an extracting apparatus for extracting the insertion signal from the synthesized sound electrical signal demodulated by the demodulating apparatus; and a control apparatus for controlling an apparatus by the insertion signal extracted by the extraction apparatus, wherein said demodulating apparatus and said acoustic signal outputting apparatus and said extraction apparatus are installed in an automotive vehicle, and said control apparatus controls a car navigation apparatus. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said data associated with the broadcast contents includes at least one of: a name; a telephone number; location information; and information on a uniform resource locator (URL). 8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said control apparatus further register the data associated with the broadcast contents in a target district information database. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said control apparatus is capable of registering data in response to a user's instruction. 10. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said extracting apparatus is capable of starting extracting the insertion signal in response to a user's instruction. 11. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said audible sound signal represents a broadcast content of a program or a commercial message, said insertion signal includes data associated with the broadcast content, and said control apparatus controls so as to store the data in the car navigation apparatus. 12. A method for receiving a radio signal which is generated by modulating with a synthesized sound electrical signal, said synthesized sound electrical signal being generated by electrically synthesizing an audible sound signal and an insertion signal, said method for receiving a radio signal comprising: demodulating the radio signal to generate the synthesized sound electrical signal; converting the synthesized sound electrical signal into an acoustic signal and outputting the acoustic signal; extracting the insertion signal from the synthesized sound electrical signal demodulated in said demodulating; and controlling an apparatus by the insertion signal extracted by said extracting, wherein said demodulating, said converting, said outputting, and said extracting are performed in an automotive vehicle, and in said controlling, a car navigation apparatus is controlled by the insertion signal. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein said data associated with the broadcast contents includes at least one of: a name; a telephone number; location information; and information on a uniform resource locator (URL). 14. The method of claim 12, wherein said controlling includes: registering the data associated with the broadcast contents in a target district information database. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said controlling further includes: registering data in response to a user's instruction. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein said extracting includes: starting extracting the insertion signal in response to a user's instruction. 17. The method of claim 12 wherein said audible sound signal represents a broadcast content of a program or a commercial message, said insertion signal includes data associated with the broadcast content, and said controlling includes storing the data associated with the broadcast content in the car navigation apparatus. 18. A program storage device readable by a machine, tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform a method for receiving a radio signal which is generated by modulating with a synthesized sound electrical signal, said synthesized sound electrical signal being generated by electrically synthesizing an audible sound signal and an insertion signal, said method for receiving a radio signal comprising: demodulating the radio signal to generate the synthesized sound electrical signal; converting the synthesized sound electrical signal into an acoustic signal and outputting the acoustic signal; extracting the insertion signal from the synthesized sound electrical signal demodulated in said demodulating; and controlling an apparatus by the insertion signal extracted by said extracting, wherein said demodulating, said converting, said outputting, and said extracting are performed in an automotive vehicle, and in said controlling, a car navigation apparatus is controlled by the insertion signal. 19. The program storage device of claim 16, wherein said data associated with the broadcast contents includes at least one of: a name; a telephone number; location information; and information on a uniform resource locator (URL). 20. The program storage device of claim 16, wherein said controlling includes: registering the data associated with the broadcast contents in a target district information database. 21. The program storage device of claim 20, wherein said controlling further includes: registering data in response to a user's instruction. 22. The program storage device of claim 18, wherein said extracting includes: starting extracting the insertion signal in response to a user's instruction. 23. The program storage device of claim 18, wherein said audible sound signal represents a broadcast content of a program or a commercial message, said insertion signal includes data associated with the broadcast content, and said controlling includes storing the data associated with the broadcast content in the car navigation apparatus. 