Disclosed is a method for predicting the biological activity of a compound by the similarity of its drug signature score to the scores of a plurality of known drug signatures.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method for predicting a biological activity of a test compound, the method comprising: a) providing a plurality of drug or group signatures, wherein each said signature is associated with a known biological activity and each said signature comprises a plurality of genes and coefficients indicating the degree of change in expression of said genes in response to one or more compound treatments; b) administering a dose of a test compound to a test subject for a selected period of time and obtaining a sample from said test subject; c) from said sample determining an expression response X.sub.g.sup.c for each gene g of said plurality of genes G.sub.s in each of said plurality of drug or group signatures; and d) calculating the Signature Projection Score (SPS) for each of said plurality of drug or group signatures, wherein .function..di-elect cons..times..times. ##EQU00005## and wherein, T.sub.g is the expression level of gene g of the drug or group signature in response to the one or more compound treatments associated with said drug or group signature, R.sub.g is a reference gene expression level for selected gene g, and S.sub.g is a scaling factor for the contribution of each gene to the SPS, whereby the drug or group signature resulting in the highest SPS indicates the predicted biological activity of the test compound. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of drug or group signatures comprises at least 10 signatures. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of drug or group signatures comprises at least 25 signatures. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein each of said known biological activity comprises a therapeutic activity. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein each of said known biological activity comprises a toxicological responses. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein each of said known biological activity comprises a therapeutic activity or a toxicological responses. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said reference gene expression level R.sub.g is expressed as a log ratio and is equal to 0. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of drug or group signatures is a plurality of group signatures. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of drug or group signatures is a plurality of drug signatures. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the test subject is selected from the group consisting of an animal, tissue sample, eukaryotic cell, and a prokaryotic organism. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the test subject is a mammalian cell. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the test subject is an animal selected from the group consisting of human, monkey, rat, mouse, cow, sheep, dog, cat, chicken, pig, and goat. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the test subject is a rat. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said sample is a tissue sample selected from the group consisting of liver, kidney, heart, bone marrow, brain, intestine, and spleen. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein said sample is a liver tissue sample. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said expression response X.sub.g is determined by measuring the change in expression levels in the sample obtained from the test subject for each gene g using a DNA microarray. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of genes of said plurality of drug or group signatures is embodied in a set of polynucleotide probes. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the set of polynucleotide probes is attached to a substrate in an array. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of drug or group signatures is stored in a database on a computer-readable medium. 