A system and methods for integrating laboratory instrumentation and applications to provide a unified control and coordination architecture under a common interface. The system provides mechanisms for detection of various hardware and software components wherein the individual functionalities and input/output data types for each component are automatically recognized and incorporated into a centralized control system that provides live monitoring of the operational status of available components.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A control and communications system, the system comprising: a client component configured to control or monitor the operation of at least one biological analyzer; at least one analyzer component associated with the at least one biological analyzer and configured to provide translation in communication between the associated biological analyzer and the client component; at least one directory having information about said at least one analyzer component such that the client component is able to control or monitor the at least one biological analyzer by referencing said information to induce the at least one biological analyzer to conduct an analysis; and a messaging service configured to communicate with the at least one analyzer component and the client component such that a selected biological analyzer can be added or removed by associating at least one of the analyzer components with said selected biological analyzer and updating the at least one directory with information about the associated analyzer component. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said translation in communication comprises translation of instructions from the client component into commands capable of inducing the associated biological analyzer to conduct the analysis and provide data indicative of the analysis. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein said information comprises a logical location and one or more parameters associated with said at least one analyzer component. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein said at least one directory is configured to provide said information to said client component. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said selected biological analyzer comprises a new biological analyzer that is added by associating at least one of the analyzer components with the new biological analyzer and updating the at least one directory with information about the associated analyzer component. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the added new biological analyzer is controlled or monitored by the client component using said information about the associated analyzer component in said at least one directory. 7. A method, comprising: associating at least one analyzer component with at least one biological analyzer, the at least one analyzer component providing translation of communication with said at least one biological analyzer; maintaining information about said at least one analyzer component to facilitate access the at least one biological analyzer; and adding or removing a selected biological analyzer by associating at least one analyzer component with said selected biological analyzer and updating the information about the associated analyzer component. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said providing of translation of communication comprises translating received instructions into commands recognized by the at least one biological analyzer. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said commands directs the at least one biological analyzer to conduct an analysis. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein said maintaining of information comprises maintaining a directory having said information. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein said information comprises a logical location associated with the at least one analyzer component. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein said information comprises one or more parameters associated with the at least one analyzer component. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein said access to the at least one biological analyzer via the corresponding analyzer component is performed by a client component. 14. The method of claim 7, wherein said selected biological analyzer comprises a new biological analyzer that is added. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said information about the associated analyzer component comprises a logical location of the new biological analyzer so as to allow discovery of and access to the new biological analyzer. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said discovery of and access to the new biological analyzer is performed by a client component. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein said discovery of and access to the new biological analyzer allows implementation of at least one process configured to direct the new biological analyzer to conduct an analysis. 