The present invention provides a system and method for the simultaneous detection of multiple analytes in a sample. The detection system includes a housing that holds a reagent carousel rotatably coupled thereto. Further included in the housing is an incubator carousel rotatably coupled thereto. The housing also includes magnetic material that is associated with the incubation carousel for assisting in separation beads from reagent and wash solution. A robot, associated with the housing is configured to manipulate at least either the reagent carousel or the incubator carousel and transfer materials therebetween. Reaction vessels hold samples and reaction vessels handlers move the reaction vessels. Sample analysis is determined by at least one laser based detector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated method for multiple analyte detection using a multiple analyte detection system having a chassis, comprising: loading a reaction vessel into an incubator carousel assembly; adding a sample comprising an analyte to said reaction vessel using a sample handler assembly comprising a specimen probe, sample robot, a sample liquid level sensor, a blockage detection sensor, and a clean station, wherein the sample handler assembly is configured to transfer the sample in the specimen probe from sample tube in a specimen rack handler to the reaction vessel; washing the inside and outside of the specimen probe in the clean station; transferring a reagent into the reaction vessel from a reagent storage assembly comprising a reagent carousel and a reagent cooler, wherein: the reagent carousel is rotatably coupled within the reagent cooler, the reagent carousel is configured to hold a reagent pack, the reagent cooler is configured to maintain the reagent pack at a predetermined temperature; the reagent comprises magnetic beads comprising a fluorescent classification dye, and the magnetic beads are configured to bind the analyte to form an analyte-bead complex; incubating the sample and reagent mixture at a predetermined temperature range to form the analyte-bead complex; washing the magnetic beads in the reaction vessel, wherein at least one magnet associated with the incubator carousel assembly attracts the magnetic beads to a side of the reaction vessel during washing; contacting the washed magnetic beads with a fluorescent labeled reporter molecule configured to bind the analyte-bead complex; transferring the magnetic beads to a detector module for analysis, wherein the detector module comprises a dual-beam flow cytometer having a first laser and a second laser, and wherein the first laser is configured to excite the fluorescent classification dye and the second laser is configured to excite the fluorescent labeled reporter molecule; and analyzing the magnetic beads with the detector module to detect the fluorescence of the classification dye and the fluorescence of the fluorescent labeled reporter molecule; wherein incubator carousel assembly, sample handler assembly, the specimen rack handler, the reagent storage assembly and the detector module are attached to the chassis of the multiple analyte detection system. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising correlating results of said analyzing with a barcode identifying the sample. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising communicating the results to a host computer. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyte comprises any of an antigen, an antibody, a peptide, a polypeptide, a nucleic acid, a virus, a viroid, or a cell. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said loading a reaction vessel comprises moving a reaction vessel from a reaction vessel supply to said incubator carousel assembly using a first robot. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first robot is an automated reaction vessel handler. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein said transferring the reagent comprises: aspirating the reagent from the reagent pack within the reagent carousel; and depositing the reagent into the reaction vessel, wherein said aspirating the reagent and depositing the reagent are accomplished using a third robot. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the third robot is a reagent robot. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein said transferring the magnetic beads to the detector module comprises: aspirating the magnetic beads comprising the analyte-bead complex from the reaction vessel; and depositing the magnetic beads into the detector module. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein said aspirating the magnetic beads and depositing the magnetic beads are accomplished using a fourth robot. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the fourth robot is a detector transfer robot. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first robot, the sample robot, the third robot and the fourth robot are attached to the chassis. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the incubator carousel assembly, the reagent storage assembly and the detector module communicate with a host computer. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the host computer is attached to the chassis. 