A consumer tote for a roll of wallpaper is provided having an exterior which has an access flap, a core access opening and, when the access flap is closed, a gap between the access flap and an adjacent edge of the exterior, an interior for rotatably locating a core in alignment with the core access opening, a coupling attached to the end of the core adjacent the core access opening, and a handle on the exterior. The coupling is arranged to engage a driving spindle through the core access opening that rotates the core for feeding of the wallpaper onto the core via the gap. The handle is formed by two handle portions which fold from respective positions on either side of the gap to a cooperating position in which openings in each handle portion align to form a grip.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A consumer tote for a roll of printed material, the tote comprising: an exterior having an access flap, a pair of core access openings and, when the access flap is closed, a gap between the access flap and an adjacent edge of the exterior; an interior for rotatably locating a core in alignment with the core access openings; inward facing hubs for engaging interiors of respective ends of the core, each hub being surrounded by a bearing surface in contact with an inside bottom surface and side walls of the interior for rotatably locating the core in the interior; a coupling attached to the end of the core adjacent to at least one of the core access openings, the coupling being arranged to engage a driving spindle through at least one of the core access openings that rotates the core for feeding of the roll onto the core via the gap; and a handle on the exterior formed by two handle portions which fold from respective positions on either side of the gap to a cooperating position in which openings in each handle portion align to form a grip. 2. The tote of claim 1, wherein the exterior is formed from a non-metallic textile. 3. The tote of claim 1, wherein the bearing surface is circular and connected to the hub by spokes. 4. The tote of claim 1, wherein the coupling forms part of one of the hubs. 5. The tote of claim 4, wherein the coupling comprises a ring of teeth. 6. The tote of claim 1, wherein the handle portions are arranged in a mirror image relationship about the gap. 7. The tote of claim 1, wherein the exterior is dimensioned to fit between the loading spindles of a print roll printing machine. 8. The tote of claim 1, wherein the exterior further comprises a viewing window. 9. The tote of claim 1, wherein the exterior is adapted to hold about 50 meters of print material on the core. 10. The tote of claim 1, further comprising a visible marker located on the exterior for indicating the location of the coupling. 