An improved seal for use in fluid systems such as a water jet system includes an outer seal point that is very close to an inner seal point. By spacing these two seal points very close together, the force on the seal is greatly reduced compared to the prior art. In the disclosed embodiment, the outer seal point is on an angled forward face of the seal that abuts a back-up ring angled face. The inner seal point is between the seal and an internal shaft which rotates relative to a housing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fluid delivery system comprising: a housing; a nozzle; one of said housing and said nozzle including a shaft extending into a cavity, said nozzle rotating relative to said housing; a structure defining an end face of said cavity, and said shaft extending through a bore in said structure and into said opening; a seal received between an outer surface of said shaft and an inner surface of said cavity, said seal having a forward face abutting said structure to provide an outer seal point between said seal and said structure, and said seal further sealing on an outer peripheral surface of said shaft; said seal being dimensioned such that there is a clearance between an outer periphery of said seal and the inner surface of said cavity; and one of said housing and said structure including a recess receiving a back-up seal, said back-up seal creating a seal blocking fluid flow from said clearance passing said back-up seal. 2. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said shaft is part of said nozzle and said cavity is in said housing. 3. The system as set forth in claim 2, wherein said structure is formed separate from said housing. 4. The system as set forth in claim 2, wherein said structure is a back-up ring having an angled surface facing said seal, said seal having a mating angled surface in contact with said angled surface on said back-up ring, and said outer seal point being formed between said angled surfaces. 5. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said nozzle is a rotating fluid jet nozzle, and said system is a cleaning system for delivering high pressure water against a surface to be cleaned. 6. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said back-up seal is an o-ring. 7. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said recess is formed in said housing. 8. A seal comprising: a seal body to be received between an outer surface of a shaft and an inner surface of a housing, said seal body having a forward face for abutting a structure to provide an outer seal point between said seal body and the structure, and said seal body further creating an inner seal point for sealing on an outer peripheral surface of the shaft; and said seal being dimensioned such that there is a clearance between an outer periphery of said seal and the inner surface of the housing, said clearance being formed between an outer periphery of said seal and the inner surface of the housing along an entire axial length of said seal. 9. The seal as set forth in claim 8, wherein the structure is a back-up ring having an angled surface facing said seal body, said seal body having a mating angled surface to contact the angled surface on the back-up ring, and said outer seal point being formed by said angled surface. 10. The seal as set forth in claim 8, wherein the seal is for use in a cleaning system for delivering high pressure water against a surface to be cleaned. 11. A fluid delivery system comprising: a housing; a nozzle; one of said housing and said nozzle including a shaft extending into a cavity, said nozzle rotating relative to said housing; a structure defining an end face of said cavity, and said shaft extending through a bore in said structure and into said opening; a seal received between an outer surface of said shaft and an inner surface of said cavity, said seal having a forward face abutting said structure to provide an outer seal point between said seal and said structure, and said seal further sealing on an outer peripheral surface of said shaft; and said seal being dimensioned such that there is a clearance between an outer periphery of said seal and the inner surface of said cavity, said clearance being formed between an outer periphery of said seal and the inner surface of the cavity along an entire axial length of said seal. 