A dust-collectable mobile robotic vacuum cleaner includes a base frame, a driving device mounted to the base frame, a control device mounted to the base frame and electrically connected with the driving device, a collision-detectable unit mounted to the base frame electrically connected with the control device, and a dust-collecting device mounted to the base frame. The dust-collecting device has dust-collecting box, a dust guider, a round brush, and a dust entrance formed at one side of the dust-collecting box. The dust guider is located at a lower edge of the dust entrance, having two opposite sides pivotably mounted to the dust-collecting box and lying against the ground at a predetermined angle respectively, for upward and downward pivoting movement. The round brush is rotatably located at a front end of the dust guider for sweeping dust particles.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A dust-collectable mobile robotic vacuum cleaner comprising: a base frame; a driving device mounted to said base frame for generating driving power; a control device mounted to said base frame and electrically connected with said driving device for controlling said driving device and the moving direction of said base frame a collision-detectable unit mounted to said base frame and electrically connected with said control device for generating a signal while said base frame in motion encounters a barrier; and a dust-collecting device mounted to said base frame for collecting dust particles on the ground and having a dust-collecting box, a dust guider, and a round brush, said dust-collecting box having a dust entrance formed at a front side thereof, said dust guider having a front side and a rear side, the rear side is pivotably mounted to said dust-collecting box and located at a lower edge of said dust entrance, and the front side extends downward at a predetermined angle to lie against the ground, wherein said dust guider is pivotably mounted to said dust-collecting box to guide the dust particles into said dust entrance, said round brush being mounted inside said base frame and rotatably located in proximity to the front side of said dust guider for sweep the dust particles onto the dust guider. 2. The dust-collectable mobile robotic vacuum cleaner as defined in claim 1, wherein said dust guider further comprises two bevels extending slopingly upward from left and right edges of a front side thereof respectively. 3. The dust-collectable mobile robotic vacuum cleaner as defined in claim 1, wherein said dust guider further comprises at least one guiding portion located at a front end thereof for guiding said dust guider to pivot upward and downward with respect to said dust guider to move across the barrier while encountering the barrier. 4. The dust-collectable mobile robotic vacuum cleaner as defined in claim 1, wherein said dust-collecting device further comprises a side brush mounted to one of left and right sides of said base frame for horizontally rotatably sweeping the dust particles toward said round brush. 5. The dust-collectable mobile robotic vacuum cleaner as defined in claim 1, wherein said dust-collecting device further comprises an exhaust blower fixed outside said dust-collecting box and a pumping port formed at a rear side of said dust-collecting box, said exhaust blower corresponding to said pumping port for pumping the air out of said dust-collecting box and generating negative pressure inside said dust-collecting box. 6. The dust-collectable mobile robotic vacuum cleaner as defined in claim 1 or 5, wherein said dust-collecting device further comprises a motor for driving rotation of said round brush or said side brush. 7. The dust-collectable mobile robotic vacuum cleaner as defined in claim 5, wherein said dust-collecting device further comprises a ventilative dust-collecting plate mounted to said dust-collecting box and located at said pumping port for blocking the dust particles. 