The present invention pertains to an articulating joint that is disengageable between two modes of operation: unidirectional movement of the joint or bi-directional movement of the joint, with features that allow the mode to be automatically switched as required. When fully locked, the joint inhibits joint flexion while allowing joint extension. When actuated, a locking mechanism is disengaged to allow both uninhibited flexion and extension of the joint.
Claims We claim: 1. An articulating joint moveable between an extended condition and a flexed condition, said joint comprising: (a) a disc plate rotatable about an axis pin between a first extended position and a second flexed position; (b) a clamping means comprising a first clamping element moveable between a first unclamping position to a second clamping position and a second clamping element; (c) a flexible member having a first end attached to said disc plate, a middle section extending between said first clamping element and said second clamping element and an anchored second end; and (d) an unlocking means for selectively impeding movement of said first clamping element in response to an unlocking signal, whereby during flexion of said joint, said disc plate is rotated toward said flexed position causing an increase in tension on said flexible member, which causes said first clamping element to move from said first unclamping position to said second clamping position at which said flexible member is clamped between said first clamping element and said second clamping element to prevent further flexion of said joint while permitting said joint to return to said extended condition, and whereby receipt of said unlocking signal by said unlocking means causes said unlocking means to impede movement of said first clamping element toward said second clamping position, thereby allowing free movement of said joint between said extended condition and said flexed condition. 2. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the first clamping element and/or the second clamping element comprises a clamping surface having a high friction material. 3. The articulating joint according to claim 1 comprising a third clamping element extending between the first clamping element and the flexible member or the second clamping element and the flexible member. 4. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member comprises a low compressive modulus of elasticity. 5. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member comprises a high compressive modulus of elasticity. 6. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member comprises a low tensile modulus of elasticity. 7. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member comprises a high tensile modulus of elasticity. 8. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member is composed of materials of different moduli of elasticity connected in series. 9. The articulating joint according to claim 1 comprising a plurality of parallel flexible members. 10. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the disc plate is attached to an upper strut and the clamping means and the flexible member are fastened between two side plates. 11. The articulating joint according to claim 10 wherein a lower strut is attached between the two side plates and positioned below the clamping means. 12. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the disc plate is attached to an upper strut, the clamping means and the flexible member are fastened between two side plates, and the second end of the flexible member is anchored via a recoil means. 13. The articulating joint according to claim 12 wherein a lower strut is attached between the two side plates and positioned below the clamping means. 14. The articulating joint according to claim 13 wherein the recoil means is anchored to the lower strut. 15. The articulating joint according to claim 14 wherein the recoil means is selected from the group consisting of a recoil spring, a helical tension spring, a spiral torsion spring, a constant tension spring, an elastic material, a segment of string, a segment of wire and a segment of line. 16. The articulating joint according to claim 15 wherein the string, the wire or the line is enclosed in a flexible sheath. 17. The articulating joint according to claim 12 wherein the recoil means is enclosed by the side plates and anchored above the second clamping element. 18. The articulating joint according to claim 17 wherein the recoil means is selected from the group consisting of a recoil spring, a helical tension spring, a spiral torsion spring, a constant tension spring, and an elastic material. 19. The articulating joint according to claim 18 wherein the flexible member is guided by a series of rollers spaced above and below the second clamping element. 20. The articulating joint according to claim 12 wherein the recoil means is enclosed by the side plates and anchored below the clamping means. 21. The articulating joint according to claim 20 wherein the recoil means is a tension driven take up spool. 22. The articulating joint according claim 10 wherein the side plates comprise extensions covering at least a portion of the disc plate and the flexible member. 23. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the disc plate further comprises a stop to limit joint flexion, joint extension or joint flexion and joint extension. 24. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the first clamping element pivots about a pin and a biasing means anchored to the first clamping element controls rotation of the first clamping element about the pin axis and the second clamping element rotates freely about a pin. 25. The articulating joint according to claim 24 wherein the biasing means is selected from one or more of the group comprising a recoil spring, a spiral spring, a torsion spring, a spiral torsion spring, a compression spring, a flat spring, a trim screw, a bumper, an elastic material or a combination thereof, and the range of motion of the second clamping element is limited by a bumper, a trim screw, a second biasing means or a combination thereof. 26. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the first clamping element pivots about a first pin and a biasing means anchored to the first clamping element controls rotation of the first clamping element about the first pin axis and the second clamping element pivots about a second pin axis and a second biasing means anchored to the second clamping element controls rotation of the second clamping element about the second pin axis. 27. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the first clamping element pivots about a pin and a biasing means anchored to the first clamping element controls rotation of the first clamping element and the second clamping element is fixed in a stationary position and a clamping surface of the second clamping element is parallel to a clamping surface of the first clamping element when the flexible member is fully clamped. 28. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member comprises: a) a high friction segment extending between the first clamping element and the second clamping element; and b) a low friction segment, wherein the high friction segment increases friction when the first clamping element is in the clamping position thereby increasing the resistance of joint flexion. 29. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member comprises: a) a low friction segment extending between the first clamping element and the second clamping element; and b) a high friction segment, wherein the low friction segment decreases friction when the first clamping element is in the clamping position thereby decreasing the resistance of joint flexion. 30. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member comprises a low friction segment and a high friction segment and the first clamping element and/or the second clamping element comprises a clamping surface having a high friction material. 31. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the unlocking means is selected from electrical means, mechanical means, hydraulic means, pneumatic means or a combination of any of these means. 32. The articulating joint according to claim 29 wherein the electrical unlocking means is a solenoid or a motor. 33. The articulating joint according to claim 29 wherein the mechanical unlocking means is a push rod or a cable mechanism. 34. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member is composed of materials of different dimensions connected in parallel. 35. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the flexible member is composed of materials of different dimensions connected in series. 36. The articulating joint according to claim 1 wherein the first clamping element and/or the second clamping element comprises a clamping surface having a low compression modulus. 