Certain embodiments disclosed herein relate to compositions, methods, devices, systems, and products regarding frozen particles. In certain embodiments, the frozen particles include materials at low temperatures. In certain embodiments, the frozen particles provide vehicles for delivery of particular agents. In certain embodiments, the frozen particles are administered to at least one substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A device, comprising: a body portion including at least one compartment configured to hold at least one fluid, the body portion including at least one port, wherein the at least one port provides fluid communication between the at least one compartment and an environment external to the body portion; inlet means for facilitating introduction of at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement into the body portion; and expansion means for inducing a volume expansion of the at least one fluid in the at least one compartment to propel the at least one frozen particle composition or at least one frozen piercing implement through the at least one port to the external environment; wherein the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement includes at least one explosive material located in at least one cavity or channel of the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one compartment includes at least one of a heat sink, cryostat, refrigeration mechanism, or freezing mechanism. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein the volume expansion of the at least one fluid includes at least one of a rapid phase-change in the at least one fluid from a liquid to a gas state; a decrease in density of the at least one fluid; a rapid volumetric expansion of the at least one fluid; flash boiling the at least one fluid; boiling liquid expanding vapor explosion of the at least one fluid; or rapid expansion of at least one portion of the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement. 4. The device of claim 3, wherein inducing a boiling liquid expanding vapor explosion includes at least one of altering the pressure of the fluid, or altering the temperature of the fluid. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein the volume of the compartment is constant. 6. The device of claim 1, further comprising pressure-increasing means for increasing the pressure within the compartment. 7. The device of claim 1, further comprising volume-reducing means for reducing the volume of the compartment. 8. The device of claim 7, wherein the volume-reducing means for reducing the volume of the compartment includes at least one piston, valve, or gate. 9. The device of claim 8, further comprising at least one crankshaft operably connected to the at least one piston. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one compartment is expandable. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one compartment is substantially rigid. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one explosive material includes at least one of carbonate, carbon dioxide, nitroglycerine, acid, base, epoxy, acrylic polymer or copolymer, acrylamide polymer or copolymer, urethane, hypoxyapatite, or reactive metal. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein at least one explosive material includes at least one of carbon dioxide gas, and inducing expansion includes inducing a volume expansion of at least one portion of the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement by contacting with infrared radiation. 14. The device of claim 13, wherein the volume expansion includes rapid expansion of the at least one explosive material of the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement. 15. The device of claim 1, wherein the temperature of the volume-expanded fluid is less than or approximately equal to the freezing temperature of the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement. 16. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one fluid has a triple point lower than or approximately equal to the triple point of the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement. 17. The device of claim 1, wherein the expansion means for inducing a volume expansion includes at least one article configured to transfer energy. 18. The device of claim 17, wherein the at least one article configured to transfer energy includes one or more of a piezoelectric, thermal, electrical, electromagnetic, or manual pressure article. 19. The device of claim 1, wherein inducing the volume expansion includes exposing the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement to at least one of electric energy, magnetic energy, electromagnetic energy, thermal energy, ultrasound, altered pressure, or altered temperature. 20. The device of claim 19, wherein the electromagnetic energy includes at least one of visible light, microwaves, infrared light, ultraviolet light, gamma rays, or x-rays. 21. The device of claim 19, wherein the electromagnetic energy is provided by at least one source including at least one of a laser or x-ray device. 22. The device of claim 1, wherein the heat associated with propulsion of the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement is less than the heat required to liquefy the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement. 23. The device of claim 1, further comprising at least one of a valve, gate, channel, injector, or pump. 24. The device of claim 1, further comprising at least one detection material. 25. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one compartment is configured to maintain at least a partial vacuum. 26. The device of claim 1, further comprising at least one administration means including at least one component for providing the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement to at least one substrate in the external environment. 27. The device of claim 26, wherein the at least one administration means includes at least one of a hose, sprayer, nozzle, or spigot. 28. The device of claim 1, further comprising at least one regulator means for adjusting the temperature of at least a portion of the at least one compartment. 29. The device of claim 1, wherein the body portion further comprises at least one first channel configured to hold at least one fluid, the at least one first channel having a distal end terminating at the at least one compartment. 30. The device of claim 29, wherein the body portion further comprises at least one second channel configured to hold at least one agent, the at least one second channel having a distal end terminating at the at least one compartment. 31. The device of claim 1, wherein the device further includes communication means configured for electronic communication with at least one computing system. 32. A device, comprising: a body portion including at least one compartment configured to hold at least one fluid, the body portion including at least one port, wherein the at least one port provides fluid communication between the at least one compartment and an environment external to the body portion; inlet means for facilitating introduction of at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement into the body portion; and expansion means for inducing a volume expansion of the at least one fluid in the at least one compartment to propel the at least one frozen particle composition or at least one frozen piercing implement through the at least one port to the external environment; wherein inducing the volume expansion includes exposing the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement to at least one of electric energy, magnetic energy, electromagnetic energy, thermal energy, ultrasound, altered pressure, or altered temperature; and wherein the electromagnetic energy includes at least one of visible light, microwaves, infrared light, ultraviolet light, gamma rays, or x-rays. 33. A device, comprising: a body portion including at least one compartment configured to hold at least one fluid, the body portion including at least one port, wherein the at least one port provides fluid communication between the at least one compartment and an environment external to the body portion; inlet means for facilitating introduction of at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement into the body portion; and expansion means for inducing a volume expansion of the at least one fluid in the at least one compartment to propel the at least one frozen particle composition or at least one frozen piercing implement through the at least one port to the external environment; wherein inducing the volume expansion includes exposing the at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement to at least one of electric energy, magnetic energy, electromagnetic energy, thermal energy, ultrasound, altered pressure, or altered temperature; and wherein the electromagnetic energy is provided by at least one source including at least one of a laser or x-ray device. 34. A device, comprising: a body portion including at least one compartment configured to hold at least one fluid, the body portion including at least one port, wherein the at least one port provides fluid communication between the at least one compartment and an environment external to the body portion; inlet means for facilitating introduction of at least one frozen particle composition or frozen piercing implement into the body portion; and expansion means for inducing a volume expansion of the at least one fluid in the at least one compartment to propel the at least one frozen particle composition or at least one frozen piercing implement through the at least one port to the external environment; further including at least one detection material. 