Radiosurgical techniques and systems treat behavioral disorders (such as depression, Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder ("OCD"), addiction, hyperphagia, and the like) by directing radiation from outside the patient toward a target tissue within the patient's brain, typically without imposing surgical trauma. The target will often be included in a neural circuit associated with the behavioral disorder. A cellularly sub-lethal dose of the radiation may be applied and the radiation can mitigate the behavioral disorder, obesity, or the like, by modulating the level of neural activity within the target and in associated tissues. Hypersensitive and/or hyperactive neuronal tissue may be targeted, with the radiation downwardly modulating hyperactive neuronal activity. By down-regulating the activity of a target that normally exerts negative feedback or a limiting effect on a relevant neural circuit, the activity of the circuit may be increased.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for treating a psychiatric behavioral disorder or hyperphagia of a patient, the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia associated with a level of neuronal activity in a neural circuit within a brain of the patient and provoking deleterious volitional behavior by the patient, the method comprising: transmitting a cellularly sub-lethal quantity of ionizing radiation from outside the patient into a target within the brain of the patient so as to alter the level of neuronal activity in the neural circuit such that the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia is mitigated, wherein the radiation is transmitted from a radiation source machine outside the patient, through a skull of the patient and into the brain of the patient along a plurality of beam paths directed from varying directions so as to intersect with the target; and performing a clinical evaluation indicating that the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia is mitigated. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the neural circuit comprises a behavioral neural circuit associated with the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia, and wherein the overall functioning of the neural circuit is abnormal prior to the treatment. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein neural tissue within the target is morphologically normal prior to the treatment. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the neural tissue within the target down-regulates the level of neuronal activity within at least a portion of the neural circuit, wherein the radiation decreases activity in the neural tissue so as to increase the level of neuronal activity within at least a portion of the neural circuit. 5. The method of claim 2, wherein the neural tissue within the target regulates the level of neuronal activity within at least a portion of the neural circuit, and wherein the radiation decreases activity in the neural tissue so as to change the neuronal activity within said at least a portion of the neural circuit. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the sub-lethal quantity of radiation comprises, during a single treatment: about 60 Gy when the target has a volume of about 0.05 cc; less than about 60 Gy when the target has a volume of significantly more than about 0.05 cc; and/or more than about 60 Gy when the target has a volume of significantly less than about 0.05 cc. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the behavioral disorder comprises depression, and wherein the radiation mitigates the depression. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the target comprises a rostral anterior cingulate; a dorsal anterior cingulate; and/or a subgenual cingulate. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the behavioral disorder comprises Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD), and wherein the radiation mitigates the OCD. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the target comprises an anterior limb of an internal capsule; a ventral PFC, and/or a dorsal anterior cingulate. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the behavioral disorder comprises addiction, and wherein the radiation mitigates the addiction. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the target comprises a region of an insula; a genu of the anterior cingulate; an arcuate nucleus of a medial hypothalamus; an anterior cingulate cortex; an orbitofrontal cortex; a medial prefrontal cortex; a dorsal anterior cinguate; an anterior limb of an internal capsule; a nucleus accumbens; and/or a neural circuit connection between the ventral tegmentum and the nucleus accumbens. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient has hyperphagia, and wherein the radiation of the target mitigates the hyperphagia. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the target comprises a lateral nucleus of a hypothalamus and/or bilateral nuclei of the hypothalamus. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the radiation is transmitted from outside the patient so as to intersect with the target without accessing the target and/or the neural circuit. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising planning the beam paths of the radiation so as to selectively apply the sub-lethal quantity of radiation to the target and to inhibit collateral damage to other tissues of the brain of the patient. 17. A method for treating a psychiatric behavioral disorder or hyperphagia of a patient, the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia associated with a level of neuronal activity in a neural circuit within a brain of the patient and provoking deleterious volitional behavior by the patient, the method comprising: transmitting a cellularly sub-lethal quantity of ionizing radiation from a radiation source machine outside the patient, along a plurality of beam paths through a skull of the patient, and into a target within the brain of the patient so as to alter the level of neuronal activity in the neural circuit such that the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia is mitigated, wherein the neural circuit comprises a behavioral neural circuit associated with the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia, wherein the overall functioning of the neural circuit is abnormal prior to the treatment, wherein the neural tissue within the target is included within the neural circuit, and wherein the radiation down-regulates the level of neuronal activity within the neural tissue and decreases overall activity of the neural circuit; and performing a clinical evaluation indicating that the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia is mitigated. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the neural tissue within the target regulates the level of neuronal activity within a portion of the neural circuit, and wherein the radiation decreases activity in the neural tissue so as to decrease the neuronal activity within the portion of the neural circuit. 19. A method for treating a psychiatric behavioral disorder or hyperphagia of a patient, the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia associated with a level of neuronal activity in a neural circuit within a brain of the patient and provoking deleterious volitional behavior by the patient, the method comprising: transmitting a sub-lethal quantity of ionizing radiation from a radiation source machine outside the patient into a target within the brain of the patient so as to alter the level of neuronal activity in the neural circuit such that the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia is mitigated, wherein the target comprises a discrete tissue structure of the brain having anatomical boundaries, wherein the ionizing radiation is transmitted from a radiation source machine as a plurality of radiation beams; and planning the radiation beams so that radiation outside the anatomical boundaries drops off sufficiently to inhibit collateral damage to adjacent neural tissues and preserve cognitive function. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the target has a volume of less than 0.5 cc. 21. The method of claim 19, further comprising collimating at least some of the radiation beams to a beam cross-sectional size of less than 3 mm. 22. A method for treating a psychiatric behavioral disorder or hyperphagia of a patient, the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia associated with a level of neuronal activity in a neural circuit within a brain of the patient and provoking deleterious volitional behavior by the patient, the method comprising: clinically determining that the behavioral disorder falls within an accepted psychiatric standard; identifying a target within the brain of the patient using an accepted psychiatric neural circuit associated with the behavioral disorder; and transmitting, after the clinical determination, a sub-lethal quantity of ionizing radiation from a radiation source machine outside the patient into the target so as to alter the level of neuronal activity in the neural circuit such that the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia is mitigated. 23. The method of claim 22, further comprising identifying or verifying the target by imaging localized neuronal activity levels along the neural circuit of the patient. 24. A method for treating a psychiatric behavioral disorder or hyperphagia of a patient, the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia associated with a level of neuronal activity in a neural circuit within a brain of the patient and provoking deleterious volitional behavior by the patient, the method comprising: transmitting a sub-lethal quantity of ionizing radiation from a radiation source machine outside the patient into a target within the brain of the patient so as to alter the level of neuronal activity in the neural circuit such that the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia is mitigated; and verifying mitigation of the behavioral disorder after a plurality of months, wherein the radiation alters the level of neuronal activity at least a plurality of weeks after the radiation is delivered to the target. 25. A method for treating Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) of a patient, the OCD associated with a level of neuronal activity in a neural circuit within a brain of the patient and provoking deleterious volitional behavior by the patient, the method comprising: transmitting a cellularly sub-lethal quantity of ionizing radiation from a radiation source machine outside the patient, along a plurality of beam paths through a skull of the patient, and into a target within the brain of the patient so as to alter the level of neuronal activity in the neural circuit such that the OCD is mitigated; and performing a clinical evaluation indicating that the OCD is mitigated; wherein the target comprises an anterior limb of an internal capsule; BA32; Cg24; a ventral PFC, and/or a dorsal anterior cingulate. 26. A method for treating chronic depression of a patient, the method comprising: transmitting a cellularly sub-lethal quantity of ionizing radiation from outside the patient, through a plurality of intermediate tissues, and into a target within the brain of the patient so as to alter neuronal activity, without surgically accessing the target, such that the depression is mitigated, wherein the radiation is transmitted from a radiation source machine outside the patient, through a skull of the patient and into the brain of the patient along a plurality of beam paths directed from varying directions so as to intersect with the target; and performing a clinical evaluation indicating that the depression is mitigated. 27. A method for treating Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD) of a patient, the method comprising: transmitting a cellularly sub-lethal quantity of ionizing radiation from outside the patient, through a plurality of intermediate tissues, and into a target within the brain of the patient so as to alter neuronal activity, without surgically accessing the target, such that the OCD is mitigated, wherein the radiation is transmitted from a radiation source machine outside the patient, through a skull of the patient and into the brain of the patient along a plurality of beam paths directed from varying directions so as to intersect with the target; and performing a clinical evaluation indicating that the OCD is mitigated. 28. A method for treating addiction of a patient, the method comprising: transmitting a cellularly sub-lethal quantity of ionizing radiation from outside the patient, through a plurality of intermediate tissues, and into a target within the brain of the patient so as to alter neuronal activity, without surgically accessing the target, such that the addiction is mitigated, wherein the radiation is transmitted from a radiation source machine outside the patient, through a skull of the patient and into the brain of the patient along a plurality of beam paths directed from varying directions so as to intersect with the target; and performing a clinical evaluation indicating that the addiction is mitigated. 29. A method for treating hyperphagia of a patient, the method comprising: transmitting a cellularly sub-lethal quantity of ionizing radiation from outside the patient, through a plurality of intermediate tissues, and into a target within the brain of the patient so as to alter neuronal activity, without surgically accessing the target, such that the hyperphagia is mitigated, wherein the radiation is transmitted from a radiation source machine outside the patient, through a skull of the patient and into the brain of the patient along a plurality of beam paths directed from varying directions so as to intersect with the target; and performing a clinical evaluation indicating that the hyperphagia is mitigated. 30. A system for treating a psychiatric behavioral disorder or hyperphagia of a patient, the behavioral disorder associated with a level of neuronal activity in a neural circuit within a brain of the patient and provoking deleterious volitional behavior by the patient, the system comprising: a source for transmitting ionizing radiation; and a processing system coupled to the source, the processing system configured to effect transmission of a plurality of beams of the radiation from the source into a target within the brain of the patient so that the radiation within the target is a cellularly sub-lethal quantity and is sufficient to alter the level of neuronal activity in the neural circuit such that the behavioral disorder or hyperphagia is mitigated, wherein the processing system comprises a non-transitory computer readable medium comprising software that causes the processing system to plan transmission of the plurality of beams so that the beams are transmitted from varying directions and intersect with the target, and so that radiation outside the target drops off sufficiently to inhibit collateral damage to other tissues of the brain. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the software of the processing system is configured for planning transmission of the plurality of beams in response to input command signals received by an input, wherein the processing system transmits signals per the software so as to effect a desired positioning of the radiation beams relative to the target. 32. The system of claim 31, the target comprising a discrete tissue structure of the brain having anatomical boundaries, wherein, in use, the processing system plans the plurality of radiation beams from a plurality of beam source locations disposed outside the patient, and wherein the processing system plans the radiation beams so that radiation outside the anatomical boundaries drops off sufficiently to inhibit collateral damage to adjacent neural tissues and preserve cognitive function. 33. The system of claim 30, wherein the target has a volume of less than 0.5 cc. 34. The system of claim 33, wherein the source comprises a collimator disposed along a path of the radiation, the collimator collimating at least some of the radiation beams to a beam cross-sectional size of less than 3 mm at the target. 35. The system of claim 30, further comprising a neural circuit image capture device coupled to the processing system, the image capture device configured to generate image data comprising localized neuronal activity levels along the neural circuit, and wherein the software is configured to facilitate planning the beams in response to the image data. 36. The system of claim 35, wherein the image capture device comprises a positron emission tomography (PET) system, a single photon emission tomography (SPECT) system, and/or functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) system. 37. The system of claim 30, wherein the processing system is configured so that the sub-lethal quantity of radiation comprises: about 60 Gy during a single treatment when the target has a size of about 0.05 cc; less than about 60 Gy when the target has a size of significantly more than about 0.05 cc; and/or more than about 60 Gy when the target has a size of significantly less than about 0.05 cc. 38. The system of claim 30, wherein the behavioral disorder comprises depression, and wherein the radiation mitigates the depression. 39. The system of claim 38, wherein the target comprises a rostral anterior cingulate; a dorsal anterior cingulate; and/or a subgenual cingulate of the brain. 40. The system of claim 30, wherein the behavioral disorder comprises Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD), and wherein the radiation mitigates the OCD. 41. The system of claim 40, wherein the target comprises an anterior limb of an internal capsule; BA32; Cg24; a ventral PFC, and/or a dorsal anterior cingulate. 42. The system of claim 40, wherein the target comprises an anterior limb of an internal capsule; a ventral PFC, and/or a dorsal anterior cingulate. 43. The system of claim 30, wherein the behavioral disorder comprises addiction, and wherein the radiation mitigates the addiction. 44. The system of claim 43, wherein the target comprises a region of an insula; a genu of the anterior cingulate; an arcuate nucleus of a medial hypothalamus; anterior cingulate cortex; an orbitofrontal cortex; a medial prefrontal cortex, a dorsal anterior cinguate; an anterior limb of an internal capsule; a nucleus accumbens; and/or a neural circuit connection between the ventral tegmentum and the nucleus accumbens. 45. The system of claim 30, wherein the patient has hyperphagia, and wherein the radiation of the target mitigates the hyperphagia. 46. The system of claim 45, wherein the target comprises a lateral nucleus of a hypothalamus and/or bilateral nuclei of the hypothalamus. 47. The system of claim 30, wherein the source comprises a plurality of cobalt 60 sources distributed generally spherically and an associated plurality of collimators oriented generally radially inwardly. 48. The system of claim 30, wherein the source comprises a linear accelerator. 49. The system of claim 30, wherein the processing system is configured to generate a sequence of beams, and further comprising: a robot coupled to the processing system and supporting the source so as to robotically re-position the source and orient sequential beams toward the target tissue; and a plurality of treatment image capture devices coupled to the processing system for transmitting registration images of the patient during treatment, the processing system having a patient registration module for aligning the radiation with the patient in three dimensions in response to the registration images. 