One aspect can relate to detecting a presence of an at least one chemical, compound, or biological material contained in an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual based at least partially on addition of an at least one chemical identifying additive to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual based at least partially on a generation of an at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least one chemical identifying additive responsive to a single input energy event in which an at least some input energy is being applied proximal to the at least one chemical, compound, or biological material contained in the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a fluorescence X-ray receiving portion configured to detect a presence of an at least one chemical, compound, or biological material contained in an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual based at least partially on addition of an at least one chemical identifying additive to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual and based at least partially on a generation of an at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least one chemical identifying additive responsive to a single input energy event in which an at least some input energy is applied proximal to the at least one chemical, compound, or biological material contained in the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing portion configured to X-ray fluorescence visualize, image, or provide information within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual based at least partially on the addition of the at least one chemical identifying additive to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual to enhance or induce the generation of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a high-energy photon and/or particle emitter portion configured to induce the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at an X-ray fluorescence event within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual by applying the at least some input energy to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein at least a portion of the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion relies at least partially upon energy from an energy accumulator. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein at least a portion of the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion includes an X-ray based emissive structure. 6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein at least a portion of a high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion includes an electron emissive structure. 7. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein at least a portion of the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion includes an ion emissive structure. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a human user. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an at least an operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a machine-based user. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein an at least an operative portion of the apparatus is controllable. 11. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy with a controllable intensity. 12. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy with a controllable timing. 13. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy with a controllable energy. 14. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy at a controllable location. 15. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the at least some input energy with a controllable direction. 16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the fluorescence X-ray receiving portion includes an at least one energy level detector. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the fluorescence X-ray receiving portion includes an at least one photodetector. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the fluorescence X-ray receiving portion includes an at least one X-ray spectrometer. 19. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein at least a portion of the apparatus is configured to identify a time of emission of the at least some input energy from the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion. 20. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein at least a portion of the apparatus is configured to identify a direction of emission of the at least some input energy from the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion. 21. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein at least a portion of the apparatus is configured to identify a velocity of emission of the at least some input energy from the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion. 22. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein at least a portion of the apparatus is configured to identify an energy of the at least some input energy from the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the apparatus is configured to identify a time of reception of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon by the X-ray fluorescence receiving portion. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the apparatus is configured to identify a direction of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon received by the fluorescence X-ray receiving portion. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the apparatus is configured to identify an energy of the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon received by the fluorescence X-ray receiving portion. 26. An apparatus, comprising: an X-ray fluorescence receiving portion configured to detect a presence of at least one chemical identifying additive within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual based at least partially on a generation of an at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon within the at least one chemical identifying additive within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual responsive to a single input energy event in which an at least some input energy is applied proximal to the at least one chemical identifying additive within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, further comprising an X-ray fluorescence visualizing, imaging, or information providing portion configured to X-ray fluorescence visualize, image, or provide information within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially responsive to the X-ray fluorescence receiving portion configured to detect the presence of the at least one chemical identifying additive. 