The present invention is directed to methods and compositions for assaying one or more analytes in a sample with improved sensitivity, reproducibility and/or lower detection limits, as well as applications employing such compositions and methods. In particular, the present invention provides methods and compositions for assaying one or more non-nucleic acid analytes with one or more other nucleic acid and/or non-nucleic acid analytes that serve as controls.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for assaying an analyte in a sample, comprising: allowing said analyte to couple to a first nucleic acid; mixing said analyte with a known amount of an antagonist for said analyte wherein said antagonist is coupled to a competitive template for said first nucleic acid; exposing said mixture to a receptor that can form complexes with both said antagonist and said analyte; amplifying said mixture to obtain an amplified product of said first nucleic acid that complexed with said receptor and a co-amplified product of said competitive template for said first nucleic acid that complexed with said receptor; obtaining a first relation, said first relation comparing amplified product of said first nucleic acid that complexed with said receptor to co-amplified product of said competitive template for said first nucleic acid that complexed with said receptor; mixing a reference nucleic acid in said first sample with a known amount of a competitive template for said reference nucleic acid wherein said reference nucleic acid is a control for loading; obtaining a second relation, said second relation comparing amplified product of said reference nucleic acid to co-amplified product of said competitive template for said reference nucleic acid; and comparing said first and said second relations, thereby assaying said analyte. 2. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said antagonist comprises said analyte. 3. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said receptor is immobilized on a substrate. 4. The method as recited in claim I wherein said reference nucleic acid comprises a sequence identical to said first nucleic acid. 5. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: diluting said co-amplified products of said first nucleic acid and of said competitive template for said first nucleic acid; and further co-amplifying said diluted amplified products. 6. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said allowing step follows said first mixing and/or said exposing step. 7. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said receptor is a peptoid. 8. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein said analyte is coupled to said first nucleic acid via a peptoid and/or said antagonist is coupled to said competitive template for said first nucleic acid via a peptoid. 9. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein obtaining said first and said second relations does not involve taking real-time measurements. 10. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein at least one of said amplified products is obtained from beyond an exponential phase of amplification. 11. A method for assessing a first analyte in a sample, comprising: allowing said first analyte to couple to a first nucleic acid; allowing a second analyte in said sample to couple to a second nucleic acid; mixing said first and said second analytes with known amounts of an antagonist for said first analyte coupled to a competitive template for said first nucleic acid and an antagonist for said second analyte coupled to a competitive template for said second nucleic acid; exposing said mixture to a first receptor that can form complexes with said antagonist for said first analyte and with said first analyte and to a second receptor that can form complexes with said antagonist for said second analyte and with said second analyte; amplifying said mixture to obtain an amplified product of said first nucleic acid that complexed with said receptor and a co-amplified product of said competitive template for said first nucleic acid that complexed with said receptor; obtaining a first relation, said first relation comparing amplified product of said first nucleic acid that complexed with said first receptor to co-amplified product of said competitive template for said first nucleic acid that complexed with said first receptor; obtaining a second relation, said second relation comparing amplified product of said second nucleic acid that complexed with said second receptor to co-amplified product of said competitive template for said second nucleic acid that complexed with said second receptor; and comparing said first and said second relations; thereby assessing an amount of said first analyte. 12. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein said second analyte serves as a reference analyte to control for loading. 13. The method as recited in claim 12 wherein said reference analyte is alpha-fetoprotein. 14. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein said known amounts of said antagonists are provided in a standardized mixture. 15. The method as recited in claim 14 wherein said antagonist for said first analyte is at a known concentration relative to said antagonist for said second analyte in said standardized mixture. 16. The method as recited in claim 14 wherein said antagonist for said first analyte is at a series of known concentrations relative to said antagonist for said second analyte in a series of said standardized mixtures. 17. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein said first receptor or said second receptor is immobilized on a substrate. 18. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein at least one of said amplified products is obtained from beyond an exponential phase of said amplification. 19. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein said method can enumerate less than about 100 molecules of said first analyte in said sample. 20. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein said method can enumerate less than about 10 molecules of said first analyte in said sample. 21. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein at least one step is computer implemented. 22. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein said assessed amount is provided as a numerical value that indicates a biological state. 23. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein said assessed amount is used to provide a numerical index that indicates a biological state. 24. A method for assessing an analyte in a sample, comprising: allowing said analyte to couple to a first nucleic acid; mixing said analyte with a known amount of an antagonist for said analyte wherein said antagonist is coupled to a competitive template for said first nucleic acid; exposing said mixture to a receptor that can form complexes with both said antagonist and said analyte; co-amplifying said first nucleic acid that complexed with said receptor and said competitive template for said first nucleic acid that complexed with said receptor; and obtaining a relation wherein said relation is substantially constant beyond an exponential phase of said co-amplification; thereby assessing an amount of said analyte. 25. The method as recited in claim 24 wherein obtaining said substantially constant relation comprises: obtaining a first relation, said first relation comparing amplified product of said first nucleic acid that complexed with said receptor to co-amplified product of said competitive template for said first nucleic acid that complexed with said receptor; obtaining a second relation, said second relation comparing amplified product of a reference nucleic acid to co-amplified product of a competitive template for said reference nucleic acid; and comparing said first and said second relations. 