The present invention provides compositions and methods for diagnosing and treating diabetes, insulin resistance and dyslipidemia. In particular, the invention provides methods of identifying modulators of AKR1C as well as methods of diagnosing diabetes by measuring the levels of AKR1C or 9.alpha., 11.beta.-PGF.sub.2.alpha. in a patient.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying an agent for modulating insulin sensitivity in a cell, the method comprising the steps of: (i) contacting a cell comprising an aldo-keto reductase 1C (AKR1C) polypeptide or fragment thereof with an agent, wherein the AKR1C polypeptide or the fragment thereof catalyzes the interconversion of 9.alpha., 11.beta.-prostaglandin F.sub.2.alpha. (9.alpha., 11.beta.-PGF.sub.2.alpha.) from prostaglandin D2 and wherein the polypeptide or fragment thereof is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 1, SEQ ID NO: 7, SEQ ID NO: 17, or SEQ ID NO:23; (ii) selecting an agent that modulates the catalytic activity of the AKR1C polypeptide or fragment thereof compared to the catalytic activity of the AKR1C polypeptide in the absence of the agent, and (iii) contacting the agent selected in step ii) to a cell and testing the insulin sensitivity of the cell, thereby identifying an agent that modulates insulin sensitivity. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting an agent that decreases insulin resistance in the cell compared to insulin resistance of the cell in the absence of the agent. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the catalytic activity of the AKR1C polypeptide is determined by measuring a change in the level of a catalytic product or substrate. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the catalytic product or substrate is 9.alpha.,11.beta.-PGF.sub.2.alpha.. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the catalytic product or substrate is prostaglandin D2. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the contacting step is performed in vitro. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the AKR1C polypeptide or fragment thereof is expressed in a cell and the cell is contacted with the agent. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the agent increases the catalytic activity of the AKR1C polypeptide or fragment thereof. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the agent decreases the catalytic activity of the AKR1C polypeptide or fragment thereof. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of administering the agent to an animal exhibiting insulin resistance and testing the animal for modulated insulin resistance. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of contacting a cell expressing an AKR1C polypeptide or fragment thereof with the agent and testing the cell for modulated peroxisome proliferation activated receptor (PPAR) activity. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the AKR1C polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO:1. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the AKR1C polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO:7. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the AKR1C polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO:17. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the AKR1C polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO:23. 16. A method for identifying an agent for modulating insulin sensitivity in a cell, the method comprising the steps of: (i) contacting a cell comprising an aldo-keto reductase 1C (AKR1C) polypeptide or fragment thereof with an agent, wherein the AKR1C polypeptide or the fragment thereof catalyzes the interconversion of 9.alpha., 11.beta.-prostaglandin F.sub.2.alpha.(9.alpha., 11.beta.-PGF.sub.2.alpha.) from prostaglandin D2 and wherein the polypeptide or fragment thereof is at least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:7, SEQ ID NO:17, or SEQ ID NO:23; (ii) selecting an agent that modulates the expression of the AKR1C polypeptide or fragment thereof compared to a control cell not contacted with the agent by measuring the level of a transcription product encoding the AKR1C polypeptide in the cell and control cell, or measuring the level of the AKR1C polypeptide in the cell and control cell, and (iii) contacting the agent selected in step ii) to a cell and testing the insulin sensitivity of the cell; thereby identifying an agent that modulates insulin sensitivity. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the agent increases the expression of the AKR1C polypeptide or fragment thereof. 18. The method of claim 16, wherein the agent decreases the expression of the AKR1C polypeptide or fragment thereof. 19. The method of claim 16, wherein the AKR1C polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:7, SEQ ID NO:17, or SEQ ID NO:23. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the AKR1C polypeptide comprises SEQ ID NO:1, SEQ ID NO:7, SEQ ID NO:17, or SEQ ID NO:23. 