A spray coating apparatus comprises a spray gun (12) operable to deposit a sprayed coating via a spray nozzle (18) onto a surface, a mapping means (22) associated with the spray gun (12) operable to ascertain and store topographical characteristics of the surface, a position sensor (28) operable to ascertain the position of the spray gun (12) relative to the surface, a coating thickness monitor (26) operable to ascertain the thickness of a coating applied to the surface, and a nozzle control means (24) operable to control the deposition of the sprayed coating, wherein the nozzle control means (24), in use, control the deposition of the sprayed coating in response to information provided by the position sensor (28), the coating thickness monitor (26) and the mapping means (22).
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A spray coating apparatus comprising: a spray gun moveable relative to a surface and operable to deposit a sprayed coating via a spray nozzle onto the surface, a mapping apparatus associated with the spray gun and including both an image projection device which in operation projects an image onto the surface and an image recognition device that views the image projected onto the surface, and ascertains topographical characteristics of the surface from the size and shape of the image, and that stores said characteristics; a position sensor operable to ascertain the position of the spray gun relative to the surface, a coating thickness monitor operable to ascertain the thickness of a coating applied to the surface while the coating is being deposited, and a nozzle controller that controls deposition of the sprayed coating, wherein the nozzle controller controls the deposition of the sprayed coating in response to information provided by the position sensor, the coating thickness monitor and the mapping apparatus. 2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the image projection device is mounted on the spray gun. 3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the coating thickness monitor comprises an optical means operable to determine the distance of the spray gun from the work surface both before and after a coating layer has been deposited. 4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the coating thickness is determined by calculation from measurements taken from the spray gun, in use. 5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the coating thickness monitor is acoustic. 6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the nozzle controller is operable to move the nozzle relative to the spray gun. 7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the nozzle controller is operable to vary the flow rate of coating material through the nozzle. 8. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the nozzle controller is operable to vary the characteristics of a spray cone emanating from the nozzle. 9. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, the apparatus further including a display device operable to indicate to an operator of the system the deposition of the spray coating on the surface. 10. The apparatus as claimed in claim 9 wherein the display device comprises a screen provided in the field of vision of the operator. 11. The apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the screen is mounted in a protective visor worn by the operator. 12. The apparatus as claimed in claim 10 wherein the screen is arranged such that the operator may view the actual work piece therethrough and the information displayed thereon is superimposed onto the actual work piece. 13. A method of applying a sprayed coating to a work surface comprising: providing a spray gun moveable relative to a surface and operable to deposit a sprayed coating via a spray nozzle onto a surface, the spray gun including a mapping apparatus associated with the spray gun for ascertains and stores topographical characteristics of the surface, a position sensor operable to ascertain the position of the spray gun relative to the surface, a coating thickness monitor operable to ascertain the thickness of a coating applied to the surface while the coating is being deposited, and a nozzle controller that controls the deposition of the sprayed coating; ascertaining and storing topographical characteristics of the surface by projecting an image onto the surface by an illumination source provided on the spray gun and viewing the size and shape of the projected image with an image recognition device while moving the spray gun over the surface; operating the spray gun to deposit a sprayed coating on to the surface while monitoring the position of the spray gun relative to the surface with the position sensor and the thickness of the coating applied to the surface with the coating thickness monitor; and controlling the deposition of the sprayed coating via the nozzle controller in response to information provided by the position sensor, the coating thickness monitor and the mapping means. 14. The method as claimed in claim 13 wherein the ascertaining and storing the topographical characteristics of the surface comprises entering a computer model of the surface into the mapping apparatus. 15. The method as claimed in claim 13 wherein monitoring the thickness of the coating comprises measuring the distance of the spray gun from the surface both before and after the application of the coating thereto. 16. The method as claimed in claim 13 wherein monitoring the thickness of the coating is determined by calculation from observation of the operative state of the spray gun during a spraying operation. 17. The method as claimed in claim 13 wherein controlling the deposition of the sprayed coating via the spray nozzle includes moving the spray nozzle relative to the spray gun. 18. The method as claimed in claim 13 wherein controlling the deposition of the sprayed coating via the spray nozzle includes varying the flow rate of coating material through the nozzle 19. The method as claimed in claim 13 wherein controlling the deposition of the sprayed coating via the spray nozzle includes varying the characteristics of the spray cone generated by the nozzle. 20. The method as claimed in claim 13, the method including providing a visual indication of the coverage of the sprayed coating on the surface to an operator of the spray gun. 