A brain-based device (BBD) having a physical mobile device NOMAD controlling and under control by a simulated nervous system. The simulated nervous system is based on an intricate anatomy and physiology of the hippocampus and its surrounding neuronal regions including the cortex. The BBD integrates spatial signals from numerous objects in time and provides flexible navigation solutions to aid in the exploration of unknown environments. As NOMAD navigates in its real world environment, the hippocampus of the simulated nervous system organizes multi-modal input information received from sensors on NOMAD over timescales and uses this organization for the development of spatial and episodic memories necessary for navigation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile brain-based device for navigating in a real-world environment, comprising: a) a mobile adaptive device having sensors for sensing multi-modal information in the real-world environment; b) a simulated nervous system for receiving and processing the multi-modal information sensed by the sensors and, in response, for outputting information to control movement of said mobile adaptive device in the environment; and c) wherein said simulated nervous system includes sensor input streams, an output motor stream, and a neural area analogous to the hippocampus and coupled to said sensor input streams and to said output motor stream of the simulated nervous system, and wherein said sensor input streams comprise a neural area analogous to an inferotemporal cortex (IT), a neural area analogous to a parietal cortex (Pr), and a neural area analogous to an anterior thalamic nuclei (ATN) system. 2. A mobile-brain based device according to claim 1, wherein said mobile adaptive device comprises means for sensing images. 3. A mobile-brain based device according to claim 2, wherein said neural area analogous to the inferotemporal cortex (IT) processes color information of the images. 4. A mobile-brain based device according to claim 2, wherein said neural area analogous to the parietal cortex (Pr) processes width information of the images. 5. A mobile brain-based device according to claim 2, wherein said mobile adaptive device comprises means for sensing heading information. 6. A mobile brain-based device according to claim 5, wherein said neural area analogous to the anterior thalamic nuclei (ATN) processes the heading information. 7. A mobile brain-based device according to claim 1, wherein the neural area analogous to the hippocampus is coupled, respectively, to the neural area analogous to the inferotemporal cortex (IT), the parietal cortex (Pr), and the anterior thalamic nuclei (ATN) via projections (P). 8. A mobile brain-based device for navigating in a real-world environment, comprising: a) a mobile adaptive device having sensors for sensing multi-modal information in the real-world environment; b) a simulated nervous system for receiving and processing the multi-modal information sensed by the sensors and, in response, for outputting information to control movement of said mobile adaptive device in the environment; and c) wherein said simulated nervous system includes sensor input streams, an output motor stream, a neural area analogous to the hippocampus and coupled to said sensor input streams and to said output motor stream of the simulated nervous system, and a neural area analogous to a value system (S) and coupled to the neural area analogous to the hippocampus. 9. A mobile brain-based device according to claim 8, wherein said mobile adaptive device comprises means for sensing obstacles in the real-world environment in which said mobile adaptive device moves. 10. A mobile brain-based device according to claim 9, wherein said value system (S) includes a positive reward (R+) and a negative reward (R-) system to provide control information, respectively, to the neural area analogous to the hippocampus if an obstacle being sensed is one being looked for or the obstacle being sensed is to be avoided. 11. A mobile brain-based device for navigating in a real-world environment, comprising: a) a mobile adaptive device having sensors for sensing multi-modal information in the real-world environment; b) a simulated nervous system for receiving and processing the multi-modal information sensed by the sensors and, in response, for outputting information to control movement of said mobile adaptive device in the environment; and c) wherein said simulated nervous system includes sensor input streams, an output motor stream, a neural area analogous to the hippocampus and coupled to said sensor input streams and to said output motor stream of the simulated nervous system, and a neural area analogous to a motor area for egocentric heading (M.sub.HDG). 12. A mobile brain-based device according to claim 11, wherein the neural area analogous to the hippocampus outputs control information to the neural area analogous to the motor area for egocentric heading to control the movement of said mobile adaptive device. 13. A mobile brain-based device for navigating in a real-world environment, comprising: a) a mobile adaptive device having sensors for sensing multi-modal information in the real-world environment; b) a simulated nervous system for receiving and processing the multi-modal information sensed by the sensors and, in response, for outputting information to control movement of said mobile adaptive device in the environment; and c) wherein said simulated nervous system includes sensor input streams, an output motor stream, and a neural area analogous to the hippocampus and coupled to said sensor input streams and to said output motor stream of the simulated nervous system, and wherein the neural area analogous to the hippocampus comprises neural areas analogous to the entorhinal cortex (Ee), dentate gyms (DG), subfield (CA3) and a subfield (CA1). 14. A mobile brain-based device according to claim 13 wherein within the neural area analogous to the hippocampus there are projections (P) for coupling the entorhinal cortex (Fe), the dentate gyrus (DG) and the subfield (CA3) and the subfields (CA1) to one another. 15. A mobile brain-based device for navigating in a real-world environment, comprising: a) a mobile adaptive device having sensors for sensing multi-modal information in the real-world environment; b) a simulated nervous system for receiving and processing the multi-modal information sensed by the sensors and, in response, for outputting information to control movement of said mobile adaptive device in the environment; and c) wherein said simulated nervous system includes sensor input streams, an output motor stream, and a neural area analogous to the hippocampus and coupled to said sensor input streams and to said output motor stream of the simulated nervous system, wherein said sensor input streams include a neuronal area analogous to the cortex, and wherein said neuronal area analogous to the hippocampus and said neuronal area analogous to the cortex are coupled through multiple loops to integrate the multi-modal information over time and to build spatial memory. 16. A mobile brain-based device for navigating in a real-world environment, comprising: a) a mobile adaptive device having sensors for sensing multi-modal information in the real-world environment; b) a simulated nervous system for receiving and processing the multi-modal information sensed by the sensors and, in response, for outputting information to control movement of said mobile adaptive device in the environment; and c) wherein said simulated nervous system includes sensor input streams, an output motor stream, a neural area analogous to the hippocampus and coupled to said sensor input streams and to said output motor stream of the simulated nervous system, and a neural area analogous to a basal forebrain (BF) to gate input into the neural area analogous to the hippocampus. 