An autonomous floor-cleaning robot comprises a self-adjusting cleaning head subsystem that includes a dual-stage brush assembly having counter-rotating, asymmetric brushes and an adjacent, but independent, vacuum assembly such that the cleaning capability and efficiency of the self-adjustable cleaning head subsystem is optimized while concomitantly minimizing the power requirements thereof. The autonomous floor-cleaning robot further includes a side brush assembly for directing particulates outside the envelope of the robot into the self-adjusting cleaning head subsystem.
Claims We claim: 1. A floor-cleaning robot comprising: a wheeled housing defining a housing perimeter; a motor drive operably connected to wheels of the housing to propel the robot across a floor surface; an obstacle detector responsive to obstacles encountered by the robot; a control circuit in electrical communication with both the obstacle detector and the motor drive and configured to control the motor drive to maneuver the robot to avoid detected obstacles across the floor surface during a floor-cleaning operation; a powered primary brush assembly configured to rotate about an axis generally parallel to the floor surface disposed across a central region of an underside of the housing and positioned to brush the floor surface as the robot is propelled across the floor surface; and a powered side brush extending beyond the housing perimeter and positioned to brush floor surface debris from beyond the housing perimeter toward a projected path of the primary brush assembly. 2. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 further comprising a vacuum with a vacuum inlet disposed in the underside of the housing and rearward of the primary brush assembly. 3. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 further comprising a particulate receptacle positioned to receive and collect particulates ingested through the vacuum inlet. 4. The floor cleaning robot of claim 3 wherein the receptacle comprises a removable dust cartridge. 5. The floor cleaning robot of claim 2 wherein the vacuum inlet comprises an elongated slot extending across the central region of the underside of the housing. 6. The floor cleaning robot of claim 5 further comprising a first resilient blade extending from the underside of the housing immediately rearward of the vacuum inlet slot and having a distal edge configured to wipe the floor surface. 7. The floor cleaning robot of claim 6 further comprising a second resilient blade extending from the underside of the housing immediately forward of the vacuum inlet slot. 8. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 further comprising a particulate receptacle positioned to receive and collect particulates brushed from the floor surface by the primary brush assembly. 9. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 wherein the primary brush assembly is configured to rotate about an axis generally parallel to the floor surface and wherein the side brush is configured to rotate about an axis generally perpendicular to the floor surface. 10. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 further comprising a cliff detector responsive to an encounter of the robot with a falling edge of the floor surface. 11. The floor cleaning robot of claim 10 wherein the control circuit is configured to redirect motion of the robot in response to detection of a floor surface falling edge. 12. The floor cleaning robot of claim 10 wherein the cliff detector is disposed adjacent a forward edge of the housing. 13. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 further comprising at least one friction pad secured to the underside of the housing and positioned to engage the floor surface and inhibit robot motion when a forward wheel of the robot travels beyond a falling edge of the floor surface. 14. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 wherein the obstacle detector comprises a displaceable bumper disposed at the housing perimeter, and a bumper displacement sensor responsive to displacement of the bumper with respect to the housing. 15. The floor cleaning robot of claim 14 wherein the bumper displacement sensor comprises an infrared break beam sensor. 16. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 wherein the side brush assembly comprises bristles extending from a driven hub. 17. The floor cleaning robot of claim 16 wherein the hub has laterally extending brush arms from which the bristles extend. 18. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 wherein the control circuit is configured to move the robot in a wall-following mode to maneuver the robot along a wall in a direction that places the side brush against the wall. 19. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 wherein the housing perimeter is round. 20. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 wherein the primary brush assembly comprises counter-rotating flapper and main brushes. 21. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 wherein the primary brush assembly is mounted on a deck pivotally coupled to a portion of the housing to which the wheels are mounted. 22. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 wherein the motor drive comprises separate motors operably connected to respective wheels of the housing, the control circuit configured to independently drive the separate motors to turn the robot. 23. The floor cleaning robot of claim 1 wherein the wheels are positioned to enable the robot to spin in place. 24. A self-propelled floor-cleaning robot comprising a housing defining a round housing perimeter; a powered primary brush assembly disposed within the round housing perimeter and positioned to engage a floor surface; a powered side brush extending beyond the round housing perimeter and positioned to brush floor surface debris from beyond the round housing perimeter; an obstacle detector responsive to obstacles encountered by the robot; and a control circuit in electrical communication with the motor drive and configured to control the motor drive to maneuver the robot about detected obstacles across the floor surface during a floor-cleaning operation. 25. The floor cleaning robot of claim 24 comprising multiple side brushes spaced apart and extending beyond the housing perimeter and positioned to brush floor surface debris from beyond the round housing perimeter. 26. The floor cleaning robot of claim 24 further comprising a vacuum with a vacuum inlet disposed in the underside of the housing and rearward of the primary brush assembly. 27. The floor cleaning robot of claim 26 further comprising a particulate receptacle positioned to receive and collect particulates ingested through the vacuum inlet. 28. The floor cleaning robot of claim 27 wherein the receptacle comprises a removable dust cartridge. 29. The floor cleaning robot of claim 26 wherein the vacuum inlet comprises an elongated slot extending across the central region of the underside of the housing. 30. The floor cleaning robot of claim 29 further comprising a first resilient blade extending from the underside of the housing immediately rearward of the vacuum inlet slot and having a distal edge configured to wipe the floor surface. 31. The floor cleaning robot of claim 30 further comprising a second resilient blade extending from the underside of the housing immediately forward of the vacuum inlet slot. 32. The floor cleaning robot of claim 24 further comprising a particulate receptacle positioned to receive and collect particulates brushed from the floor surface by the primary brush assembly. 33. The floor cleaning robot of claim 24 wherein the primary brush assembly is configured to rotate about an axis generally parallel to the floor surface and wherein the side brush is configured to rotate about an axis generally perpendicular to the floor surface. 34. The floor cleaning robot of claim 24 further comprising a cliff detector responsive to an encounter of the robot with a falling edge of the floor surface. 35. The floor cleaning robot of claim 24 further comprising at least one friction pad secured to the underside of the housing and positioned to engage the floor surface and inhibit robot motion when a forward wheel of the robot travels beyond a falling edge of the floor surface. 36. The floor cleaning robot of claim 24 wherein the obstacle detector comprises a displaceable bumper disposed at the housing perimeter, and a bumper displacement sensor responsive to displacement of the bumper with respect to the housing. 37. The floor cleaning robot of claim 24 wherein the control circuit is configured to move the robot in a wall-following mode to maneuver the robot along a wall in a direction that places the side brush against the wall. 38. The floor cleaning robot of claim 24 wherein the primary brush assembly is mounted on a deck pivotally coupled to a portion of the housing to which the wheels are mounted. 39. A floor-cleaning robot comprising a wheeled housing defining a housing perimeter; a motor drive operably connected to wheels of the housing to propel the robot across a floor surface; an obstacle detector responsive to obstacles encountered by the robot; a cliff detector disposed adjacent a forward edge of the housing and responsive to floor surface falling edges; a controller in electrical communication with the obstacle detector, the cliff sensor, and the motor drive, and configured to control the motor drive to redirect motion of the robot in response to detected obstacles and in response to detected floor surface falling edges encountered during a floor-cleaning operation; a cleaning head, having mounted therein: a powered primary brush assembly disposed across a central region of an underside of the housing and positioned to brush the floor surface as the robot is propelled across the floor surface, and a vacuum with a vacuum inlet disposed in the underside of the housing rearward of the primary brush assembly; and a powered side brush extending beyond the housing perimeter and positioned to brush floor surface debris from beyond the housing perimeter toward a projected path of the cleaning head. 40. The floor cleaning robot of claim 39 further comprising a particulate receptacle positioned to receive and collect particulates ingested through the vacuum inlet. 41. The floor cleaning robot of claim 40 wherein the receptacle comprises a removable dust cartridge. 42. The floor cleaning robot of claim 39 wherein the vacuum inlet comprises an elongated slot extending across the central region of the underside of the housing. 43. The floor cleaning robot of claim 42 further comprising a first resilient blade extending from the underside of the housing immediately rearward of the vacuum inlet slot and having a distal edge configured to wipe the floor surface. 44. The floor cleaning robot of claim 43 further comprising a second resilient blade extending from the underside of the housing immediately forward of the vacuum inlet slot. 45. The floor cleaning robot of claim 39 wherein the primary brush assembly is configured to rotate about an axis generally parallel to the floor surface and wherein the side brush is configured to rotate about an axis generally perpendicular to the floor surface. 46. The floor cleaning robot of claim 39 further comprising at least one friction pad secured to the underside of the housing and positioned to engage the floor surface and inhibit robot motion when a forward wheel of the robot travels beyond a falling edge of the floor surface. 47. The floor cleaning robot of claim 39 wherein the obstacle detector comprises a displaceable bumper disposed at the housing perimeter, and a bumper displacement sensor responsive to displacement of the bumper with respect to the housing. 48. The floor cleaning robot of claim 47 wherein the bumper displacement sensor comprises an infrared break beam sensor. 49. The floor cleaning robot of claim 39 wherein the side brush assembly comprises bristles extending from a driven hub. 50. The floor cleaning robot of claim 49 wherein the hub has laterally extending brush arms from which the bristles extend. 51. The floor cleaning robot of claim 39 wherein the controller is configured to move the robot in a wall-following mode to maneuver the robot along a wall in a direction that places the side brush against the wall. 52. The floor cleaning robot of claim 39 wherein the housing perimeter is round. 53. The floor cleaning robot of claim 39 wherein the primary brush assembly is mounted on a deck pivotally coupled to a portion of the housing to which the wheels are mounted. 54. The floor cleaning robot of claim 39 wherein the motor drive comprises separate motors operably connected to respective wheels of the housing, the controller configured to independently drive the separate motors to turn the robot. 55. A self-propelled floor-cleaning robot comprising: wheels operably connected to a motor drive to propel the robot across the floor surface; a controller in electrical communication with the motor drive and configured to control the motor drive to autonomously maneuver the robot about detected obstacles encountered on the floor surface during a floor-cleaning operation; a housing defining a round housing perimeter shaped to allow the robot to freely turn when proximate to the obstacles encountered on the floor surface during a floor-cleaning operation; a cleaning head disposed within the round housing perimeter and positioned to engage a floor surface; and a powered rotating side brush extending beyond the round housing perimeter and positioned to brush floor surface debris from beyond the round housing perimeter toward a projected path of the cleaning head, the powered rotating side brush rotating in a direction that brushes debris toward the robot ahead of a rotating axis of the brush along the projected path of the cleaning head, the controller being configured to move the robot in a wall-following mode to maneuver the robot along a wall in a direction that places the powered rotating side brush against the wall. 56. The floor cleaning robot of claim 55 wherein the cleaning head comprises a powered primary brush assembly disposed within the housing perimeter and positioned to engage the floor surface. 57. The floor cleaning robot of claim 55 wherein the cleaning head comprises a vacuum with a vacuum inlet disposed in the underside of the housing and cooperative with the primary brush assembly. 58. The floor cleaning robot of claim 57 further comprising a particulate receptacle positioned to receive and collect particulates ingested through the vacuum inlet. 59. The floor cleaning robot of claim 58 wherein the receptacle comprises a removable dust cartridge. 60. The floor cleaning robot of claim 57 wherein the vacuum inlet comprises an elongated slot extending across the central region of the underside of the housing. 61. The floor cleaning robot of claim 60 further comprising a first resilient blade extending from the underside of the housing immediately rearward of the vacuum inlet slot and having a distal edge configured to wipe the floor surface. 62. The floor cleaning robot of claim 55 further comprising a cliff detector responsive to an encounter of the robot with a falling edge of the floor surface. 