A method of applying a coating onto a substrate includes providing a coating source having a plurality of color components, dynamically blending selected color components to form a plurality of coating materials of selected color, directing the coating materials to separate reservoirs, and selectively directly a coating material from one or more of the reservoirs over the substrate by one or more applicators.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of applying a coating onto a substrate, comprising the steps of: providing a coating source including a plurality of waterborne color components; dynamically blending selected color components to form a plurality of coating materials of selected color in a first mixer, said first mixer being connected to a plurality of separate reservoirs; directing the coating materials from the first mixer to one or more of said reservoirs; and selectively directing a coating material from one or more of the reservoirs over at least a portion of the substrate by one or more applicators. 2. The method of claim 1, including positioning the substrate on a turntable. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the turntable is rotatable and/or tiltable. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the coating source includes a first dynamic mixing system comprising a plurality of first coating components of differing color. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first coating components are substantially free of effect pigments. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the coating source further includes a plurality of second coating components comprising effect pigments. 7. A method of applying a composite basecoat over a substrate, comprising the steps of: providing a substrate; applying at least one first basecoat layer over at least a portion of the substrate by a non-dynamic coating system; applying at least one second basecoat layer over at least a portion of the first basecoat layer by a dynamic coating system, the dynamic coating system comprising: a plurality of coating sources; a mixer connected to the plurality of coating sources; a plurality of reservoirs connected to the mixer; and one or more applicators connected to one or more of the reservoirs. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first basecoat layer comprises effect pigment. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein the first basecoat layer is substantially free of effect pigment. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein the non-dynamic coating system includes at least one bell applicator or at least one gun applicator. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the dynamic coating system comprises a plurality of first coating sources, said first coating sources each comprising a first coating material having differing color. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the dynamic coating system further comprises a plurality of second coating sources, one or more of said second coating sources comprising a second coating material comprising effect pigments. 13. A method of applying a composite basecoat over a substrate, comprising: providing a substrate; applying at least one first basecoat layer over at least a portion of the substrate by a non-dynamic coating system, wherein the first basecoat layer is of a first color; and applying at least one second basecoat layer over at least a portion of the first basecoat by a dynamic coating system, the dynamic coating system comprising: a plurality of coating sources, wherein each of said plurality of coating sources comprises a first coating component, one or more of the first coating components having differing color; a mixer connected to the plurality of coating sources; a plurality of reservoirs connected to the mixer; and one or more applicators connected to one or more of the reservoirs; and wherein the second basecoat layer is formed by dynamically mixing selected first coating components to provide a second basecoat material of a selected second color. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the first color is different than the second color. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the first basecoat layer comprises effect pigment. 16. The method of claim 13, wherein the second basecoat layer comprises effect pigment. 17. A method of applying a composite basecoat over a substrate, comprising: providing a substrate having at least one non-dynamically applied first basecoat layer; and dynamically applying at least one second basecoat layer over at least a portion of the first basecoat layer by a dynamic coating system that comprises: a plurality of coating sources; a mixer connected to one of the plurality of coating sources; a plurality of reservoirs connected to the mixer; and one or more applicators connected to one or more of the reservoirs. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the dynamically applying step includes: (a) selectively directing a plurality of first coating components from one or more of said plurality of coating sources to the mixer, one or more of said first coating components having a different color; (b) dynamically blending the plurality of first coating components in the mixer to form a coating composition of a selected color; (c) selectively directing the coating composition to one or more reservoirs; (d) repeating steps (a)-(c) (e) applying one of the coating compositions over at least a portion of the first basecoat layer. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the first basecoat layer is of a different color than the second basecoat layer. 20. A method of applying a composite basecoat over a substrate, comprising the steps of: (a) providing a substrate; (b) applying at least one first basecoat layer over at least a portion of the substrate by a non-dynamic coating system; (c) providing a dynamic coating system comprising: a plurality of coating sources, said plurality of coating sources comprising a coating material, wherein one or more of the coating materials have a different first color; a mixer connected to the plurality of coating sources; a plurality of reservoirs connected to the mixer; and one or more applicators connected to one or more of the plurality of reservoirs; (d) forming a second basecoat material having a selected second color by selectively directing one or more of the plurality of coating materials to the mixer and dynamically blending the components to form a second basecoat material in the mixer; (e) selectively directing the second basecoat material from the mixer to one or more of the plurality of reservoirs that are connected to the mixer; (f) repeating steps (d) and (e) (g) selectively directing one of the second basecoat materials from the plurality of reservoirs to the one or more applicators; and (h) applying said one of the second basecoat materials over at least a portion of the first basecoat layer via the one or more applicators. 21. The method according to claim 20, wherein said second basecoat material comprises an effect pigment. 