Automated handling systems and methods for using the handling systems for handling a work piece in a machining process, for example, an electrical discharge machining (EDM) process, are provided. The handling systems include a robotic manipulator adapted to grasp a work piece and locate the work piece in a machining operation, such as, an EDM machining operation. The robotic manipulator includes tooling having gripping devices adapted to grasp and position the work piece so that the work piece can be transferred and positioned, for example, precisely positioned, whereby accurate machining of the work piece can be practiced with little or no custom tooling. Methods for handling a work piece are also disclosed.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for handling a work piece for an EDM (Electrical Discharge Machining) machining process, the method comprising: providing the work piece in a first position; grasping the work piece with a first automated gripping device mounted to a robotic manipulator; transferring the work piece with the robotic manipulator from the first position to a second position in a vessel where the work piece can be accessed by an EDM machine tool; introducing a dielectric fluid to the vessel; and grasping the work piece in the second position with a second automated gripping device wherein the work piece is positioned for machining by the EDM machine tool. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the machine tool comprises a wire EDM machine tool. 3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein grasping the work piece with the first automated gripping device comprises grasping the work piece between a first jaw and a second jaw of the first automated gripping device. 4. The method as recited in claim 3, wherein the second jaw is stationary, and wherein grasping the work piece between the first jaw and the second jaw comprises translating the first jaw toward the stationary second jaw. 5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein grasping the work piece with the second automated gripping device comprises grasping the work piece between a first jaw and a second jaw of the second automated gripping device. 6. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the second jaw is stationery, and wherein grasping the work piece between the first jaw and the second jaw comprises translating the first jaw toward the stationary second jaw. 7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the method further comprises releasing the work piece from the grasp of the first automated gripping device and removing the first automated gripping device from the vessel. 8. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the method further comprises electrical discharge machining the work piece. 9. A system for handling a work piece for an EDM machining process, the system comprising: a robotic manipulator; a first automated gripping device mounted to the robotic manipulator and adapted to grip a work piece located in a first position; a second automated gripping device adapted to receive and retain the work piece in a second position located in a vessel including at least some dielectric fluid for machining by an EDM machine tool; and means for controlling the operation of the robotic manipulator, the first gripping device, and the second gripping device to position the first gripping device whereby the first gripping device grips the work piece, the robotic manipulator transfers the work piece from the first position to the second position, and the second gripping device grips the work piece to retain the work piece in a the second position whereby the work piece can be machined by the EDM machine tool. 10. The system as recited in claim 9, wherein machine tool comprises a wire EDM tool. 11. The system as recited in claim 9, wherein the first automated gripping device comprises a first jaw and a second jaw adapted to engage the work piece therebetween. 12. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein the second jaw is stationary and the first jaw is mounted for translation toward the second jaw. 13. The system as recited in claim 9, wherein the second automated gripping device comprises a first jaw and a second jaw adapted engage the work piece therebetween. 14. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein the system further comprises an electrical discharge machining tool adapted to machine the work piece in the second position. 