An effective electropurge process and apparatus for wet processing of semiconductor wafers applies electrical charges to the wafer surface with an ample voltage sufficient to provide an effective field intensity which can substantially eliminate intolerable sub-0.05 micron "killer" defects when making highly advanced microchips with a feature size or line width less than 0.15 micron. The process can be used with frequent voltage reversal for automated wet-batch cleaning operations using cassettes that hold 10 to 50 wafers at a time and in various other operations involving megasonic transducers, mechanical brush scrubbers, laser cleaners and CMP equipment. The electropurge process is primarily intended for Fab plants where large wafers with a diameter of 200 to 400 mm require 250 to 350 steps including many dry layering, patterning and doping operations and at least 30 wet processing steps.
Claims We claim: 1. In a process for fabrication of microelectronic devices on silicon wafers wherein microcircuits are formed on the front face of a wafer by a plurality of layering, patterning, doping and heating operations and the wafer is wetted and repeatedly subjected to cleaning, rinsing and drying operations to remove contaminants, the improvement wherein said front face of the process wafer is artificially charged during wet processing to provide an effective field intensity and a negative voltage of at least 2 volts sufficient to cause effective removal of harmful sub 0.05-micron particulates bonded to the wafer surface, the wafer being charged by induction to prevent electrolysis. 2. A process according to claim 1 wherein particulate contaminants are removed and substantially eliminated from a wafer by providing the front face of the wafer with a limited electric charge during wet processing steps insufficient to degrade the microcircuits, the charge being sufficient to provide a field intensity at said front face effective to dislodge and remove sub 0.05-micron particulates bonded at the wafer surface. 3. A process according to claim 1 where a row of 10 or more silicon wafers is supported in a vessel or wafer carrier during the cleaning operations, the front face of each wafer being charged to a limited negative voltage, such as 2 to 60 volts, insufficient to harm the delicate microcircuits formed on that face and having a field intensity of at least 0.02 volts/mm sufficient to cause efficient removal of harmful sub 0.05-micron particulates. 4. A process according to claim 1 wherein the face of the wafer is artificially provided with an electric charge during the wet cleaning operations to provide a field intensity sufficient to cause effective removal of sub 0.05-micron particles and wherein the electric charge at the wafer face is reversed at high frequency to agitate the particles and excite or disorient water molecules at or near the wafer face. 5. A process for cleaning silicon wafers having delicate microcircuits formed on the front faces in which a single row of 10 to 20 or more closely-spaced wafers is mounted in a thin-wall receptacle containing ultrapure DI water and is submerged while the wafers are held in axial alignment and in parallel vertical positions, electrode means comprising positive and negative electrodes being provided at opposite ends of said row that are separated from the water in the receptacle to prevent electrolysis, and in which all of the wafers are simultaneously and uniformly charged by induction to a voltage sufficient to cause effective removal of sub 0.05-micron particulates, the electric charge induced at the face of each wafer being reversed periodically to agitate or disorient polarized water molecules at the wafer face. 