The present invention discloses and claims methods and devices for the rapid mechanical isolation of monocot plant tissues suitable for transformation or tissue culture. The invention includes mechanical devices for substantially isolating target plant tissues for use as transformable explants, and propagation of transgenic plants and plant tissues.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of providing monocot embryos suitable for transformation or tissue culture, comprising: (a) providing monocot seeds containing immature embryos having an opening in the pericarp of said seeds; (b) applying force to said seeds sufficient to extract said immature embryos from said seeds, wherein said extracted immature embryos comprise embryos or pieces of embryos suitable for genetic transformation or tissue culture; and (c) transforming the suitable embryos or pieces of embryos with a heterologous nucleic acid molecule. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising separating said extracted immature embryos from associated non-embryo tissue, wherein said separated extracted immature embryos comprise embryos suitable for tissue culture. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said monocot is in the family Poaceae. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said monocot is a Zea species. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said multiple monocot seeds comprise multiple corn kernels on at least one corn ear. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said embryos suitable for tissue culture comprise intact embryos. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said embryos suitable for tissue culture comprise partial embryos. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said tissue culture comprises regeneration into a plant. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said regeneration results in callus formation. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein said regeneration results in at least one fertile plant. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said force is mechanically applied force. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said force comprises one or more force selected from fluid jet positive pressure, liquid jet positive pressure, mechanical positive pressure, negative pressure, centrifugal force, linear acceleration, linear deceleration, fluid shear, fluid turbulent flow, and fluid laminar flow. 13. The method of claim 2, wherein said separating comprises use of at least one of size-exclusion, hydrophobic separation, and density differentials. 14. The method of claim 5, wherein the corn ear is immature. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the pericarp is opened by using one or more of the following: a needle, an awl, a blade, an abrasive material, application of a chemical treatment, and application of an enzymatic treatment. 