An optical tactile sensor and an image information integrating method capable of measuring large area force vector distribution are provided. The optical tactile sensor comprises a tactile section comprising a transparent elastic body (1) and a plurality of markers (3, 4) provided therein, and a plurality of imaging devices (6, 6) for obtaining a marker image by photographing the behavior of the markers when an object (5) contacts the tactile face (2) of the transparent elastic body (1). The method comprises a step of obtaining a partial image by photographing the partial regions A, B, C and D of the transparent resilient body (1) using the plurality of imaging devices (6, 6) such that each imaging device (6) has an overlapped photograph region (11), and a step of integrating the partial images obtained by each imaging device (6) such that the identical markers in the overlapped photograph region match.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An optical tactile sensor comprising: a tactile section having a transparent elastic body and a plurality of markers provided therein; imaging means for obtaining a marker image by photographing behavior of markers when an object contacts the sensing surface of the transparent elastic body, wherein said imaging means comprises a plurality of imaging devices, and each of the plurality of imaging devices is provided such that each of the imaging regions which is captured using each of the respective imaging devices has an overlapped imaging region which partially overlaps; and said optical tactile sensor further comprising image integration means for integrating each of the marker images which are obtained using the plurality of imaging devices, wherein the image integration means integrates the imaging regions such that identical markers in the overlapped imaging regions are matched, to thereby form an integrated image. 2. The sensor of claim 1, said sensor comprising a display for displaying an image obtained by each imaging device. 3. The sensor of claim 1 wherein said tactile section comprises a large area tactile section which is formed by combining a plurality of small area tactile sections. 4. The sensor of claim 3 wherein the tactile sensor comprises a unit comprised of one small area tactile section and one imaging means corresponding to the small area tactile section and the tactile sensor is formed by combining a plurality of the units. 5. The sensor of claim 1 wherein said tactile section is comprised of a transparent elastic body and a plurality of groups of markers provided therein, each marker group being made up of a number of colored markers, with markers making up different marker groups having different colors for each group, and the imaging device taking an image of the behavior of colored makers in the transparent elastic body when an object contacts the surface of elastic body. 6. A method of reconstructing force vector using the sensor of claim 5, said method comprising the steps of: obtaining a marker image by taking an image of behavior of colored markers when an object contacts a contact surface of the elastic body; obtaining information relating to the marker behavior from the marker image, said information being more than the number of force vectors to be obtained; and obtaining force vectors as outputs by inputting said obtained information relating to the marker behavior to a transfer function, wherein said obtaining force vectors calculates force vectors omitting information relating to behavior of the marker that has low extent of contribution to force vector calculation. 7. The method of claim 6, said obtaining force vectors comprising calculating force vectors using only information relating to behavior of markers in the vicinity of a position where it is desired to obtain force vectors. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said position comprises one or more sampling points. 9. The method of claim 8, said method further comprising the steps of: arranging a plurality of sampling points around said position; obtaining force vectors acting at the sampling points at and around said position using information relating to marker behavior in the vicinity of said position; and adopting only force vectors acting at said position in the calculated force vectors. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the sampling points are arranged more sparsely as separation from said position. 11. The method of claim 6, wherein said obtaining force vectors comprising calculating force vectors omitting elements that are close zero in elements of the matrix. 12. A method of reconstructing force vector using the sensor of claim 5, said method comprising the steps of: obtaining a marker image by taking an image of behavior of colored markers when an object contacts a contact surface of the elastic body; obtaining information relating to the marker behavior from the marker image, said information being more than the number of force vectors to be obtained; setting a small region of a specified size in the marker image and arranging a plurality of force vector sampling points inside and outside the small region; calculating force vectors acting on the sampling points by supplying marker information inside the small region to a transfer function; and adopting force vectors acting on at least some sampling points of the plurality of sampling points arranged inside the small region. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the sampling points are arranged densely inside the small region, and arranged sparsely with distance from the small region. 14. A method for obtaining a marker image using an optical tactile sensor comprising a tactile section having a transparent elastic body and a plurality of markers provided therein, and an imaging means for obtaining a marker image by photographing behavior of markers when an object contacts the sensing surface of the transparent elastic body, said method comprises steps of: providing a plurality of imaging devices as the imaging means and obtaining a partial marker image by photographing a partial region of the transparent elastic body using each of the plurality of imaging devices such that each imaging device has an overlapped imaging region; and forming an integrated marker image by integrating the partial marker images obtained, using the imaging means such that identical markers in the overlapped photograph regions are matched. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein said tactile portion comprises a transparent elastic body and a plurality of marker groups provided in said body, each marker group is comprised of a number of colored markers, with markers constituting different marker groups having different colors for each group, and said imaging device takes an image of behavior of colored markers when said curved surface of elastic body is contacted by an object. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein calibration of the respective imaging device is conducted using the markers. 17. A method for integrating a marker image, which is employed in an optical tactile sensor comprising a tactile section having a transparent elastic body and a plurality of markers provided therein, and a plurality of imaging devices for obtaining a marker image by photographing behavior of markers when an object contacts the sensing surface of the transparent elastic body, said image integration method comprising the steps of: obtaining a partial image by photographing a partial region of the transparent elastic body using each of the plurality of imaging devices such that each imaging device has an overlapped imaging region; and integrating the partial images obtained using the imaging means such that identical markers in the overlapped photograph regions are matched. 