An improved spot welding system for clamping and welding a plurality of workpieces at predetermined datum locations includes a clamping element, and at least one electrode. The preferred electrode(s) and element are concentrically alignable during engagement, and configured to produce an annular weld about the datum location. More preferably, the workpieces define an opening at the datum location, the element includes an insulated pin at least a portion of which is configured to pass-through the opening, and the electrode defines an inner space configured to receive the portion of the pin, when the electrode and element fully engage the workpieces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for clamping and resistance spot welding a plurality of workpieces, said system comprising: a clamping element including first and second coaxially aligned and drivable rods, each presenting a distal end, and configured to engage the workpieces at a first location with the ends of the rods, so as to secure the workpieces in a relatively fixed position; and at least one electrode configured to engage by contacting, applying pressure to and passing an electric current through a section of the workpieces after the workpieces are secured in the fixed position, said element and electrode being cooperatively configured such that the section is spaced not more than one centimeter from the first location. 2. The system as claimed in claim 1, said element and the at least one electrode being telescopingly coupled and cooperatively configured to engage the workpieces in a concentrically aligned condition. 3. The system as claimed in claim 2, said at least one electrode defining a continuous wall configured to produce a substantially annular weld encircling the first location. 4. The system as claimed in claim 3, said weld presenting an inner diameter to outer diameter ratio not greater than 0.8. 5. The system as claimed in claim 1, said at least one electrode and element being interconnected and drivenly coupled to, and maneuverable by a single robotic apparatus, wherein said apparatus is programmably controllable and operable to autonomously position the element to the first location. 6. The system as claimed in claim 1, said workpieces defining and being configured to present concentrically alignable and adjacently positionable holes, so as to present an opening; said element including an insulated pin, at least a portion of which is configured to enter and pass-through the opening. 7. The system as claimed in claim 6, said at least one electrode defining an interior space at least substantially enclosed by an outer wall, said space being configured to receive the at least portion of the pin, when the pin is fully inserted through the opening, and the at least one electrode engages the section. 8. The system as claimed in claim 6, said pin presenting a distal end and being tapered towards the end. 9. The system as claimed in claim 8, said element including a backing block, wherein said block and the at least one electrode appositely engage the workpieces, said pin being retractably coupled to the block. 10. The system as claimed in claim 9, said pin being one of a plurality of interchangeable pins, said pins each being removably connectable to the block. 11. The system as claimed in claim 1, said element and the at least one electrode being cooperatively configured to retain the workpieces in the relatively fixed position, and cooperatively configured to pass the electric current through a section. 12. The system as claimed in claim 1; and the at least one electrode further comprising a second electrode configured to engage by applying pressure to and passing an electric current through a second section of the workpieces, wherein said second section is substantially adjacent the first location, said first and second sections being radially symmetric relative to the first location. 13. The system as claimed in claim 12, said first and second electrodes being individually actuated, so as to non-concurrently engage the workpieces. 