A painting robot outer arm includes a non-conductive housing mounting a color changer on the outside and a paint canister on the inside connected by an isolating paint transfer line. The paint canister is releasably attached to a piston ram and drive motor by a quick disconnect coupling. The paint supply is isolated from the applied high voltage by cleaning and drying the transfer line. The rate of filling of the canister can be controlled in response to sensed torque applied by a drive motor moving a piston in the paint canister.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A painting apparatus having a robotic arm with a paint applicator mounted thereon comprising: a wrist having one end for attaching to an outer end of the robotic arm and an opposite end for mounting the paint applicator, said wrist having an external housing being a structural component thereof and capable of supporting the paint applicator, and said housing being formed of a non-conductive material impervious to corrosive properties of solvents used in painting environments. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said housing is cast from a polyamide material. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said wrist has a rotating axis of movement and a tilting axis of movement. 4. A painting apparatus comprising: an arm for a painting robot, said arm having a first housing formed of a non-conductive material and an outer end; a wrist having one end attached to said outer end of said arm, said wrist having a second housing being a structural component thereof and formed of a non-conductive material and said wrist having an opposite end; and a paint applicator mounted on said opposite end of said wrist and supported by said second housing. 5. The apparatus according to claim 4 including a paint canister mounted inside said first housing. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5 including a paint transfer line continuously connecting an interior of said paint canister to a color changer for transferring paint from said color changer to said interior of said paint canister and providing electrostatic isolation of said paint canister from said color changer during use of said paint canister for painting. 7. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said color changer is mounted on an external surface of said first housing. 8. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein said color changer is mounted outside said first housing. 9. The apparatus according to claim 6 including a pig removably inserted in said paint transfer line and being slidingly moveable in said paint transfer line. 10. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said second housing is cast from a polyamide material. 11. The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein said wrist has a rotating axis of movement and a tilting axis of movement. 12. A painting apparatus comprising: an arm for a painting robot, said arm having a first housing formed of a non-conductive material and an outer end; a wrist having one end attached to said outer end of said arm, said wrist having a second housing being a structural component thereof and formed of a non-conductive material and said wrist having an opposite end for mounting a paint applicator; a paint canister mounted inside said first housing; a paint transfer line continuously connecting an interior of said paint canister to a color changer for transferring paint from said color changer to said interior of said paint canister and providing electrostatic isolation of said paint canister from said color changer during use of said paint canister for painting; and said color changer being mounted on an external surface of said first housing. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said first housing and said second housing are cast from a polyamide material. 14. The apparatus according to claim 12 wherein said wrist has a rotating axis of movement and a tilting axis of movement. 15. A multi-axis paint robot having an outer arm portion moveable within a spray booth, an at least two-axis wrist with one end attached to the outer arm portion, and an electrostatic paint applicator attached to another end of said at least two-axis wrist, said at least two-axis wrist having capability to orient the electrostatic paint applicator toward a pad in the spray booth for painting the part, comprising: structural components of the at least two-axis wrist being constructed of non-conductive materials such that the wrist can operate safely in the paint booth without being a ground source to a charged portion of a paint delivery system associated with the multi-axis paint robot or to charged droplets leaving the electrostatic paint applicator. 16. The paint robot according to claim 15 wherein the outer arm portion has structural components constructed of non-conductive materials such that the outer arm portion can operate safely in the paint booth without being a ground source to the charged portion of the paint delivery system or to the charged droplets leaving the paint applicator. 17. The paint robot according to claim 16 wherein said non-conductive material also is impervious to corrosive properties of solvents used in painting environments. 