Described herein is electroadhesion technology that permits controllable adherence between two objects. Electroadhesion uses electrostatic forces of attraction produced by an electrostatic adhesion voltage, which is applied using electrodes in an electroadhesive device. The electrostatic adhesion voltage produces an electric field and electrostatic adherence forces. When the electroadhesive device and electrodes are positioned near a surface of an object such as a vertical wall, the electrostatic adherence forces hold the electroadhesive device in position relative to the surface and object. This can be used to increase traction or maintain the position of the electroadhesive device relative to a surface. Electric control of the electrostatic adhesion voltage permits the adhesion to be controllably and readily turned on and off.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot comprising: a body; a mechanism for locomotion mechanically coupled to the body; and at least one electroadhesive device mechanically coupled to the mechanism for locomotion and configured to detachably adhere to a foreign substrate, the electroadhesive device including a deformable surface for interfacing with a surface of the substrate, a first electrode configured to apply a first voltage at a first location of the deformable surface, a second electrode configured to apply a second voltage at a second location of the deformable surface, wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces an electrostatic force between the at least one electroadhesive device and the substrate that is suitable to maintain a current position of the at least one electroadhesive device relative to the substrate, and an insulation material disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode and configured to substantially maintain the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein the substrate is included in a vertical wall or a ceiling. 3. The robot of claim 1 wherein the mechanism for locomotion is configured to position the at least one electroadhesive device onto a surface of the substrate. 4. The robot of claim 1 wherein the mechanism for locomotion includes tracks. 5. The robot of claim 1 wherein the mechanism for locomotion includes a wheel. 6. The robot of claim 1 wherein the electrodes include one or more cilium configured to deform to the surface when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 7. The robot of claim 1 wherein the insulation material includes the deformable surface. 8. The robot of claim 7 wherein the insulation material is further disposed between the first electrode and a surface of the substrate and disposed between the second electrode and the surface. 9. The robot of claim 8 wherein the insulation material includes a thickness less than about 2 millimeters between the first electrode and a surface of the substrate and between the second electrode and the surface of the substrate. 10. The robot of claim 1 wherein the deformable surface includes a surface of a material or structure that is bendable but not substantially elastically extendable. 11. The robot of claim 1 wherein the surface of the substrate has a roughness greater than about 1 millimeter. 12. The robot of claim 1 wherein the surface of the substrate is damp or dusty. 13. The robot of claim 1 wherein the electrostatic force between the device and the substrate is suitable to maintain a current position of the device relative to the substrate despite the presence of a particulate disposed between the deformable surface and the surface of the substrate. 14. The robot of claim 1 further comprising circuitry configured to provide the electrostatic adhesion voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode. 15. The robot of claim 14 wherein the circuitry includes step-up voltage circuitry that is configured to receive a voltage from a voltage source, which is less than about 40 volts, and configured to increase the voltage from the voltage source to the electrostatic adhesion voltage, which is above about 500 volts. 16. The robot of claim 1 wherein the first electrode and the second electrode are less than about 1 millimeter from the surface of the substrate when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 17. An electroadhesive device configured to adhere two objects together, the electroadhesive device comprising: a body with a first surface and a second surface; a first electrode configured to apply a first voltage at a first location of the first surface; a second electrode configured to apply a second voltage at a second location of the first surface; and a mechanism for locomotion mechanically coupled to the body and at least one of said first and second electrodes, wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces a first electrostatic force between the electroadhesive device and a first object that is suitable to adhere a surface of the first object to the first surface, and wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces a second electrostatic force between the electroadhesive device and a second object that is suitable to adhere a surface of the second object to the second surface. 18. The device of claim 17 wherein the body includes an insulation material disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode and configured to substantially maintain the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode. 19. The device of claim 17 wherein the body includes an insulation material having a thickness less than about 2 millimeters. 20. The device of claim 17 wherein the first electrode is on the first surface and the second electrode is on the second surface. 21. The device of claim 17 wherein the first surface and the second surface are deformable and the body includes a deformable insulation material. 22. The device of claim 21 wherein the deformable insulation material includes a compliant material having an elastic modulus less than about 10 MPa. 23. The device of claim 21 wherein the deformable surface includes a surface of a material or structure that is bendable but not substantially elastically extendable. 24. The device of claim 17 further comprising circuitry configured to provide the electrostatic adhesion voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode. 25. The device of claim 24 wherein the circuitry includes step-up voltage circuitry that is configured to receive a voltage from a voltage source, which is less than about 40 volts, and configured to increase the voltage from the voltage source to the electrostatic adhesion voltage, which is above about 500 volts. 26. The device of claim 17 wherein the first voltage is above about 2 kilovolts. 27. The device of claim 26 wherein the second voltage is about zero volts. 28. A method of ascending a wall comprising: positioning an electroadhesion device in proximity to a surface of the wall; applying an electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between a first electrode at a first location of the electroadhesion device and a second electrode at a second location of the electroadhesion device; adhering the electroadhesion device to the wall surface using an electrostatic attraction force provided by the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference, wherein the electroadhesion device is included in a robot with a second electroadhesion device that moves when the first electroadhesion device adheres to the wall; and ascending the wall while the electroadhesion device adheres to the wall. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein the electroadhesion device is attached to a rope. 30. The method of claim 28 further comprising removing the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode. 31. The method of claim 30 further comprising repositioning the electroadhesion device to a new position in proximity to a surface of the wall. 32. The method of claim 31 further comprising: applying an electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode at the first location of the electroadhesion device and the second electrode at a second location of the electroadhesion device; adhering the electroadhesion device to the wall surface at the new position. 33. The method of claim 28 wherein the wall surface has a roughness greater than about 1 millimeter. 34. The method of claim 28 wherein the wall surface is one of damp, greasy, or dusty. 35. A mobile device, comprising: a body; and at least one electroadhesive device mechanically coupled to the body and configured to detachably adhere to a foreign substrate, the electroadhesive device including a deformable surface for interfacing with a surface of the substrate, a first electrode configured to apply a first voltage at a first location of the deformable surface, a second electrode configured to apply a second voltage at a second location of the deformable surface, wherein the difference in voltage between the first voltage and second voltage includes an electrostatic adhesion voltage that produces an electrostatic force between the at least one electroadhesive device and the substrate that is suitable to maintain a current position of the at least one electroadhesive device relative to the substrate, and an insulation material disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode and configured to substantially maintain the electrostatic adhesion voltage difference between the first electrode and the second electrode, wherein the electrodes include one or more cilium configured to deform to the surface when the electrostatic adhesion voltage is applied. 