A health care monitoring system for a person includes one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless mesh network; a wearable appliance having a sound transducer coupled to the wireless transceiver; and a bioelectric impedance (BI) sensor coupled to the wireless mesh network to communicate BI data over the wireless mesh network to detect a heart attack or a stroke attack.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heart monitoring system for a person, comprising: one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless mesh network; and a wearable appliance having: a wearable wireless transceiver adapted to communicate with the one or more wireless nodes; and a wearable bioelectric impedance (BI) sensor positioned near a heart or a brain to detect heart attack or stroke attack, respectively, the BI sensor coupled to the wearable wireless transceiver to communicate BI data over the wireless mesh network; and a wearable power source to power the wearable wireless transceiver and wearable BI sensor. 2. The system of claim 1, comprising an accelerometer to detect a dangerous condition and to generate a warning when the dangerous condition is detected. 3. The system of claim 1, comprising a sound transducer coupled to the wireless transceiver to communicate audio over a plain old telephone service (POTS) network and a public switched telephone network (PSTN) network through the mesh network. 4. The system of claim 1, comprising one of: EEG detector, EKG detector, ECG detector, electromagnetic detector, ultrasonic detector, optical detector, a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) recognizer, a dynamic time warp (DTW) recognizer, a neural network, a fuzzy logic engine. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance monitors patient movement for heart attack or stroke attack. 6. The system of claim 1, comprising an in-door positioning system coupled to one or more mesh network appliances to provide location information. 7. The system of claim 1, comprising a call center coupled to the appliance to provide a human response. 8. The system of claim 1, comprising a web server coupled to the mesh network and to the POTS to provide information to an authorized remote user. 9. The system of claim 1, comprising a wireless router coupled to the mesh network and wherein the wireless router comprises one of: 802.11 router, 802.16 router, WiFi router, WiMAX router, Bluetooth router, X10 router. 10. The system of claim 1, comprising a mesh network appliance coupled to a power line to communicate X10 data to and from the mesh network. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the BI data is used to determine one of: total body water, compartmentalization of body fluids, cardiac monitoring, blood flow, skinfold thickness, dehydration, blood loss, wound monitoring, ulcer detection, deep vein thrombosis, hypovolemia, hemorrhage, blood loss. 13. The system of claim 1, comprising a patch having second BI sensor in communication with the wireless transceiver. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network to one of: a doctor, a nurse, a medical assistant, a caregiver, an emergency response unit, a family member. 15. The system of claim 1, comprising code to store and analyze patient information for dangerous conditions. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the patient information includes medicine taking habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or excise habits. 17. The system of claim 1, further comprising a patient interface for accessing information including: a touch screen; voice-activated text reading; and one touch telephone dialing. 18. The system of claim 1, comprising a patch having one or more sensors in communication with the wireless mesh network. 19. The system of claim 1, comprising: one or more cameras positioned to capture three dimensional (3D) video of the patient; and a server coupled to the one or more cameras, the server executing code to detect a dangerous condition for the patient based on the 3D video and allow a remote third party to view images of the patient when the dangerous condition is detected. 20. A monitoring system for a person, comprising: one or more wireless mesh network nodes; and a wearable appliance having: a sound transducer coupled to the person and to the wireless mesh network nodes to provide audio communication over a public telephone network; and a bioelectric impedance sensor coupled to the wireless mesh network nodes and coupled to the person's skin to determine one of: total body water, compartmentalization of body fluids, cardiac activity, blood flow, skinfold thickness, dehydration, blood loss, wound monitoring, ulcer detection, deep vein thrombosis, hypovolemia, hemorrhage, blood loss, heart attack, stroke attack. 