Disclosed herein are systems and methods including hardware, software and electronic service components and systems to provide large-scale, reliable, and secure foundations for distributed databases and content management systems combining unstructured and structured data, and allowing post-input reorganization to achieve a high degree of flexibility.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for encrypting, authenticating, and aggregating data pools, the method comprising a computer having a computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions which, when executed by a processor of the computer, causes the processor to perform the steps of: providing a record including a first data item and a second data item, the first data item including secure data and the second data item including unsecure data; using tag-level encryption to encode a security level to the first data item and a security level to the second data item, wherein the levels of security are different; authenticating the first data item and the second data item using a security function triggered by a content of the first data item and a content of the second data item; aggregating the first data item into a secure data pool based at least in part on the security function; and aggregating the second data item into an unsecure data pool based at least in part on the security function, wherein aggregating the first data item and aggregating the second data item includes separate routing for the first data item and for the second data item. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data item includes one or more of a name, birth date, social security number, bank account and password. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second data item includes medical data. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the secure data pool provides conditional access to content. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the conditional access includes password-based access. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the conditional access includes role-based access. 7. The method of claim 4, wherein the conditional access includes conditional read access. 8. The method of claim 4, wherein the conditional access includes conditional write access. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the record includes one or more of a medical record, a financial record, a psychological record, and a tax record. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the unsecure data pool is available for public use. 11. A method for storing a relationship among a plurality of authenticated data within aggregated data pools, the method comprising a computer having a computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions which, when executed by a processor of the computer, causes the processor to perform the steps of: providing a record including a first data item and a second data item; using tag-level encryption to encode a first metadata to the first data item and a second metadata to the second data item, wherein the encoding of the first metadata and the second metadata are different; authenticating the first metadata item for the first data item and the second metadata item for the second data item using a security function triggered by the metadata; aggregating the first data item in a first data pool based at least in part on the first metadata and the security function; aggregating the second data item in a second data pool based at least in part on the second metadata and the security function, wherein aggregating the first data item and aggregating the second data item includes a separate routing for the first data item and for the second data item; and expressing a relationship between the first data item and the second data item in a file external to the first data pool and the second data pool. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the access to the first data pool is controlled by a security layer. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the content in the first data pool includes syndicated content with message-level encryption. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the content in the first data pool includes syndicated content with tag-level encryption. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein the content in the first data pool includes syndicated content with channel-level encryption. 16. The method of claim 12, wherein the security layer employs an Active Directory service. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the file is encrypted. 18. The method of claim 11, wherein the file includes a password for accessing at least one of the first item and the second item. 19. The method of claim 11, wherein the first data item includes a syndicated message. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the syndicated message includes an RSS message. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the syndicated message includes an OPML file. 