A system for process control comprises a server digital data processor and a client digital data processor that are coupled by a network, such as the Internet or an Intranet. The server digital data processor, which is additionally coupled to a control/sensing device and any associated interface equipment (collectively, referred to as "process control apparatus"), includes a command processor that transfers information between the network and the process control apparatus. The client digital data processor includes an information client (e.g., a so-called Internet web browser) capable of requesting and receiving an applet from the server digital data processor. The information client, further, defines a hardware-independent and operating system-independent virtual machine environment within the client digital data processor. The client digital data processor executes, within that virtual machine environment, an applet for configuring the client digital data processor as a "process controller" that establishes communications over the network with the command processor and that monitors and/or controls the process control apparatus via those communications.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A process control system comprising A. a plurality of devices to any of monitor and control a process, B. a portable computer equipped for display to, and input from, an operator, C. a program executing on the portable computer that responds to input to transmit to a digital data processor separate from the portable computer a request to update information that controls one or more of the devices, D. software executing on the digital data processor, the software responding to selected requests received from the program to issue a command to update information that controls one or more of the devices. 2. The process control system of claim 1, wherein the portable computer and the digital data processor are disposed remotely with respect to one another. 3. The process control system of claim 1, wherein the program executing on the portable computer responds to input from the operator to transmit a request to get information reflecting the status of one or more of the devices. 4. The process control system claim 3, wherein the software executing on the digital data processor responds to selected requests received from the program to issue a command to obtain information reflecting the status of one or more of the devices. 5. The process control system of claim 3, where the program executing on portable computer graphically displays data values associated with any of the plurality of devices. 6. The process control system of claim 3, wherein the program executing on the portable computer displays on the portable computer at least selected gotten information reflecting the status of one or more devices. 7. The process control system of claim 1, adapted to permit the portable computer any or monitor and control one or more plant processes. 8. The process control system of claim 7, adapted to provide the portable computer remote access to one or more of said devices for purposes of any of monitoring and controlling said one or more plant processes. 9. The process control system of claim 7, adapted to facilitate the provision of technical support via the portable computer. 10. The process control system of claim 1, where the program responds to operator input to transmit requests to get a process variable associated with one or more of the devices. 11. The process control system of claim 1, wherein the portable computer is a personal digital assistant. 12. The process control system of claim 1, wherein the portable computer takes input from any of a keyboard or mouse. 13. A process control system of the type having a plurality of devices to any of monitor and control a process, the process control system comprising A. a portable computer equipped for display to, and input from, an operator, B. a program executing on the portable computer that transmits to a digital data processor requests to update information that controls one or more of the devices, the program responding to operator input to transmit requests to get information reflecting the status of one or more of the devices and/or displaying said information, C. software executing on the digital data processor, the software responding to requests received from the program to selectively (a) issue a command to update information that controls one or more of the devices and (b) obtain information pertaining to one or more of the devices, D. wherein the digital data processor is disposed remotely from the portable computer and is coupled for communication therewith via a wireless network. 14. The process control system of claim 13, adapted to permit the portable computer to any or monitor and control one or more plant processes. 15. The process control system of claim 14, adapted to permit the portable computer to provide remote access to one or more of said devices for purposes of any of monitoring and controlling said one or more plant processes. 16. The process control system of claim 14, adapted to facilitate the provision of technical support via the portable computer. 17. The process control system of any of claim 13 or 14, wherein the portable computer takes input from any of a keyboard or mouse. 18. The process control system of any of claim 13 or 14, where the program responds to operator input to transmit requests to get a process variable associated with one or more of the devices. 19. The process control system of any of claim 13 or 14, wherein the portable computer is a personal digital assistant. 20. The process control system of any of claim 13 or 14, where the program executing on portable computer graphically displays data values associated with any of the plurality of devices. 21. The process control system of any of claim 13 or 14, wherein the program executing on the portable computer displays on the portable computer at least selected gotten information reflecting the status of one or more devices. 22. A process control system comprising A. a plurality of devices to any of monitor and control a process, B. a portable computer equipped for display to, and input from, an operator, C. a digital data processor coupled to the portable computer via a wireless network, D. software executing on the digital data processor, the software responding to selected requests received from the portable computer to execute a service for at least one of (i) creating a named object that stores information regarding the one or more control/sensing devices, (ii) destroying such an object, (iii) accessing information in such an object, (iv) updating information in such an object, (v) determining, from an object name, a physical address associated with such an object, and (vi) providing notification of changes in at least selected information stored in such an object, and E. the portable computer transmitting to the digital data processor requests for one or more said services, and responding to input to transmit to the digital data processor requests for one or more of said services in order to update information in an object that is associated with one or more of the devices. 23. The process control system of claim 22, wherein the portable computer is configured as a process controller. 24. The process control system of claim 22, wherein the portable computer transmits to the digital data processor requests for one or more of said services in order to any of monitor and control one or more of said devices. 25. The process control system of claim 22, wherein the software executing on the digital data processor responds to selected requests received from the portable computer to issue commands to update information in an object that is associated with one or more of the devices. 26. The process control system of claim 22, wherein the portable computer responds to input to transmit requests for one or more said services in order to get information reflecting the status of one or more of the devices. 27. The process control system claim 26, wherein the software executing on the digital data processor responds to selected requests received from the portable computer to issue a command to access information in an object associated with one or more of the devices. 28. The process control system of claim 27, wherein the portable computer displays on the portable computer at least selected gotten information reflecting the status of one or more devices. 29. The process control system of claim 22, where the portable computer graphically displays data values associated with any of the plurality of devices. 30. The process control system of claim 22, adapted to permit the portable computer any or monitor and control one or more plant processes. 31. The process control system of claim 30, adapted to provide the portable computer remote access to one or more of said devices for purposes of any of monitoring and controlling said one or more plant processes. 32. The process control system of claim 30, adapted to facilitate the provision of technical support via the portable computer. 33. The process control system of claim 22, where the portable computer responds to operator input to transmit requests to get a process variable associated with one or more of the devices. 34. The process control system of claim 22, wherein the portable computer is a personal digital assistant. 35. The process control system of claim 22, wherein the portable computer takes input from any of a keyboard or mouse. 36. A process control system comprising A. a plurality of devices to any of monitor and control a process, B. a portable computer equipped for display to, and input from, an operator, C. a digital data processor coupled to the portable computer via a wireless network, D. software executing on the digital data processor, the software responding to selected requests received from the portable computer to execute a service for at least one of (i) creating a named object that stores information regarding the one or more control/sensing devices, (ii) destroying such an object, (iii) accessing information in such an object, (iv) updating information in such an object, (v) determining, from an object name, a physical address associated with such an object, and (vi) providing notification of changes in at least selected information stored in such an object. 37. The process control system of claim 36, wherein portable computer transmits to a digital data processor a request for one or more said services. 38. The process control system of claim 37, wherein the portable computer is configured as a process controller. 39. The process control system of claim 37, wherein the portable computer transmits to the digital data processor requests for one or more of said services in order to any of monitor and control one or more of said devices. 40. The process control system of claim 37, wherein the portable computer responds to input to transmit to the digital data processor requests for one or more of said services in order to update information in an object that is associated with one or more of the devices. 41. The process control system of claim 40, wherein the software executing on the digital data processor responds to selected requests received from the portable computer to issue commands to update information in an object that is associated with one or more of the devices. 42. The process control system of claim 40, wherein the portable computer responds to input to transmit requests for one or more said services in order to get information reflecting the status of one or more of the devices. 43. The process control system of claim 40, wherein the software executing on the digital data processor responds to selected requests received from the portable computer to issue a command to access information in an object associated with one or more of the devices. 44. The process control system of claim 43, wherein the portable computer displays on the portable computer at least selected gotten information reflecting the status of one or more devices. 45. The process control system of claim 37, where the portable computer graphically displays data values associated with any of the plurality of devices. 46. The process control system of claim 37, adapted to permit the portable computer any or monitor and control one or more plant processes. 47. The process control system of claim 46, adapted to provide the portable computer remote access to one or more of said devices for purposes of any of monitoring and controlling said one or more plant processes. 48. The process control system of claim 46, adapted to facilitate the provision of technical support via the portable computer. 49. The process control system of claim 37, where the portable computer responds to operator input to transmit requests to get a process variable associated with one or more of the devices. 50. The process control system of claim 37, wherein the portable computer is a personal digital assistant. 51. The process control system of claim 37, wherein the portable computer takes input from any of a keyboard or mouse. 52. A portable computer for use in a control system that includes one or more control/sensing devices to monitor and/or control a process, the portable computer comprising A. a program that executes on the portable computer in order to configure it as a process controller for purposes of at least controlling the one or more control/sensing devices, B. the portable computer, when configured as a process controller, exchanging messages over a wireless network with a server digital data processor for purposes of controlling the one or more control/sensing devices, C. the messages including requests, transmitted by the portable computer to the server digital data processor, for services provided by the server digital data processor including services for at least one of (i) accessing information regarding the one or more control/sensing devices, (ii) updating information regarding the one or more control/sensing devices, (iii) determining a physical address associated with the one or more control/sensing devices, and (iv) providing notification of changes in at least selected information pertaining to the one or more control/sensing devices. 53. The portable computer of claim 52, wherein the messages include requests, transmitted by the portable computer to the server digital data processor, for services provided by the server digital data processor including services for at least one of (i) creating a named object that stores information regarding the one or more control/sensing devices, (ii) destroying such an object, (iii) accessing information in such an object, (iv) updating information in such an object, (v) determining, from an object name, a physical address associated with such an object, and (vi) providing notification of changes in at least selected information stored in such an object. 54. The portable computer of any claims 52 and 53, wherein the portable computer exchanges messages over the wireless network with the server digital data processor using a TCP/IP protocol. 55. The portable computer of any of claims 52 and 53, wherein said messages are in any of text and ASCII form. 56. The portable computer of any of claims 52 and 53, wherein the messages include requests to get a process variable associated with one or more of the control/sensing devices. 57. The portable computer of any of claims 52 and 53 which graphically displays information regarding one or more of the control/sensing devices. 58. The portable computer of any of claims 52 and 53 adapted to monitor and control one or more plant processes. 59. The portable computer of claim 58, adapted to facilitate the provision of technical support via the portable computer. 60. The portable computer of any of claims 52 and 53 adapted to provide remote access to one or more of said control/sensing devices for purposes of any of monitoring and controlling said one or more plant processes. 61. The portable computer of any of claims 52 and 53, wherein the messages include requests for one or more of said services in order to monitor one or more of said control/sensing devices. 62. The portable computer of any of claims 52 and 53, wherein the portable computer, when configured as a process controller, responds to input to transmit messages that include requests for one or more said services in order to get information reflecting the status of one or more of the control/sensing devices. 63. The portable computer of claim 62, wherein the portable computer displays gotten information reflecting the status of one or more control/sensing devices. 64. The portable computer of any of claims 52 and 53, wherein the portable computer is a personal digital assistant. 65. The portable computer of any of claims 52 and 53, wherein the portable computer takes input from any of a keyboard or mouse. 66. A digital data processor for use in a control system that includes one or more control/sensing devices to monitor and/or control a process, the digital data processor comprising A. a program that executes on the digital data processor in order to configure it as a process controller for purposes of at least controlling the one or more control/sensing devices, B. the digital data processor, when configured as a process controller, exchanging messages over a wireless network for purposes of controlling the one or more control/sensing devices, C. the messages including requests, transmitted by the digital data processor for object management services including services for at least one of (i) accessing information regarding the one or more control/sensing devices, (ii) updating information regarding the one or more control/sensing devices, (iii) determining a physical address associated with the one or more control/sensing devices, and (iv) providing notification of changes in at least selected information pertaining to the one or more control/sensing devices. 67. The digital data processor of claim 66, wherein the messages include requests for services including at least one of (i) creating a named object that stores information regarding the one or more control/sensing devices, (ii) destroying such an object, (iii) accessing information in such an object, (iv) updating information in such an object, (v) determining, from an object name, a physical address associated with such an object, and (vi) providing notification of changes in at least selected information stored in such an object. 68. The digital data processor of any claims 66 and 67, wherein the digital data processor exchanges messages over the wireless network using a TCP/IP protocol. 69. The digital data processor of any of claims 66 and 67, wherein said messages are in any of text and ASCII form. 70. The digital data processor of any of claims 66 and 67, wherein the messages include requests to get a process variable associated with one or more of the control/sensing devices. 71. The digital data processor of any of claims 66 and 67 which graphically displays information regarding one or more of the control/sensing devices. 72. The digital data processor of any of claims 66 and 67 adapted to monitor and control one or more plant processes. 73. The digital data processor of any of claims 66 and 67 adapted to provide remote access to one or more of said control/sensing devices for purposes of any of monitoring and controlling said one or more plant processes. 74. The digital data processor of claim 72, adapted to facilitate the provision of technical support via the digital data processor. 75. The digital data processor of any of claims 66 and 67, wherein the messages include requests for one or more of said services in order to monitor one or more of said control/sensing devices. 76. The digital data processor of any of claims 66 and 67, wherein the digital data processor, when configured as a process controller, responds to input to transmit messages that include requests for one or more said services in order to get information reflecting the status of one or more of the control/sensing devices. 77. The digital data processor of claim 76, wherein the digital data processor displays gotten information reflecting the status of one or more control/sensing devices. 78. The digital data processor of any of claims 66 and 67, wherein the digital data processor is a personal digital assistant. 79. The digital data processor of any of claims 66 and 67, wherein the digital data processor takes input from any of a keyboard or mouse. 80. A method of operating a digital data processor for use in a control system that includes one or more control/sensing devices to monitor and/or control a process, said digital data processor including a wireless network connection, the method comprising A. configuring the digital data processor as a process controller for purposes of controlling one or more of said control/sensing devices, and B. exchanging one or more messages in a form of any of text and ASCII format via said wireless network connection for purposes of effecting said controlling of said one or more said control/sensing devices. 81. The method of claim 80, wherein the digital data processor is any of a portable computer and a personal digital assistant. 82. The method of any of claims 80 and 81, wherein the digital data processor is battery-powered. 83. The method of claim 80, wherein the digital data processor operates without a wired network connection to the process control system. 84. The method of claim 80, wherein the digital data processor operates without a wired network connection to the process control system. 85. The method of claim 80, wherein step (B) includes exchanging over the wireless network messages that include requests, generated by the process controller, for managing objects within the control system, wherein those objects maintain information on the status of at least selected control/sensing devices. 86. The method of claim 85, wherein step (B) includes exchanging over the wireless network one or more messages for remotely managing shared objects of the control system. 87. The method of claim 85, wherein step (B) includes exchanging over the wireless network one or more messages for any of creating, registering, locating, accessing and/or updating said objects that maintain information on the status of at least selected control/sensing devices. 88. The method of claim 80, wherein step (B) includes exchanging over the wireless network one or more messages for any of (i) creating a named object that stores information regarding the one or more control/sensing devices, (ii) destroying such an object, (iii) accessing information in such an object, (iv) updating information in such an object, (v) determining, from an object name, a physical address associated with such an object, and (vi) providing notification of changes in at least selected information stored in such an object. 89. The method of claim 80, wherein step (B) includes exchanging over the wireless network one or more messages including requests to get a process variable associated with one or more of the control/sensing devices. 90. The method of claim 80, comprising executing a program on said digital data processor in order to configure it as a said processor controller. 91. The method of claim 80 comprising exchanging said messages over the wireless network using a TCP/IP protocol. 92. The method of claim 80, comprising exchanging one or more said messages in order to get information reflecting the status of one or more of the devices. 93. The method of claim 92, comprising graphically displaying information gotten by the digital data processor in response said one or more messages information reflecting the status of one or more of the devices. 94. The method of claim 80, comprising exchanging one or more said messages in order to set a value associated with one or more of the control/sensing devices. 95. The method of claim 80, comprising wherein the digital data processor is a personal digital assistant. 96. The method of claim 95, wherein the digital data processor is adapted to provide remote access to one or more of said control/sensing devices for purposes of any of monitoring and controlling said one or more plant processes. 97. The method of claim 80, comprising providing user input to the digital digital data processor via any of a keyboard or mouse. 98. The method of claim 80, wherein the digital data processor is adapted to monitor and control one or more plant processes. 