A method for printing wallpaper onto a web of media is provided. In the method one or more collections of patterns are provided, a selection of a pattern from the one or more collections by an operator is captured, the selection being communicated by input of a symbol of the selected pattern, and the wallpaper is produced, on demand, according to the captured pattern selection by utilizing an printer configured to print onto the web of media to produce the wallpaper.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for printing wallpaper onto a web of media, comprising the steps of: receiving a configuration of the wallpaper, the configuration including a selection of a pattern and a length, said selection of the pattern being received by input of a symbol of one of a plurality of patterns; receiving the web in a media path of a printer, the media path extending from a media loading area to a winding area, a printhead being located in the media path; receiving a blank core into the winding area; diagnosing operation parameters of the printer, the operation parameters including ink fill levels, remaining web length, web tension and end-to-end integrity of the web; and producing a single roll of wallpaper, on demand and in accordance with the diagnosed operation parameters of the printer, according to the configuration by utilizing the printer; winding the web onto the core after the web has been printed on, the length of core wound on the core being according to the length of the configuration; and severing the wound core from the web. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of storing to a storage device accessible to the printer, a plurality of selectable files for describing patterns for printing onto the media web. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing the printer with a video display for depicting the one or more collections of patterns and the captured pattern selection. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of using the video display as a touch screen input device to capture operator selections. 5. The method of claim 3, further comprising the step of using the video display to display information that relates to a configuration of the printer. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of providing the printer with a scanner for capturing operator selections. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the scanner is provided for communicating the symbol input. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the printer used is a self contained printer having a full width digital color printhead. 