A radiosurgery system is described that is configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, other disorders or tissues of a body are treated with the dose of radiation. In some embodiments, the target tissues are placed in a global coordinate system based on ocular imaging. In some embodiments, the target tissues inside the global coordinate system lead to direction of an automated positioning system that is directed based on the target tissues within the coordinate system. In some embodiments, a treatment plan is utilized in which beam energy and direction and duration of time for treatment is determined for a specific disease to be treated and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, a fiducial marker is used to identify the location of the target tissues. In some embodiments, radiodynamic therapy is described in which radiosurgery is used in combination with other treatments and can be delivered concomitant with, prior to, or following other treatments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system, for treating a target tissue with x-ray radiation, comprising: a radiation source that emits x-rays, the x-rays having an energy between about 1 KeV and about 300 KeV; a collimator that collimates the emitted x-rays into an x-ray beam, the collimator having an inner cross-sectional dimension, the x-ray beam having a dose distribution at a beam spot in a plane at the target tissue, such that a dose of the x-ray beam at a region within the plane is less than about 20% of the dose at a centroid of the beam spot; wherein the region is located at a distance, away from the centroid of the beam spot, equal to about 70% of the inner cross-sectional dimension; an alignment system that aligns the x-ray beam with an axis traversing the target tissue and that positions the radiation source within about 50 cm from the target tissue; and a processing module that receives an input comprising a parameter of the target tissue and that, based on the parameter, outputs to the alignment system a direction for the x-ray beam to be emitted toward the target tissue. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the alignment system is configured to align the x-ray beam repeatedly during a treatment session. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the parameter comprises a location of a fiducial marker that provides indication of a location of the target tissue. 4. A system, for treating a target tissue with radiation, comprising: a radiation source that emits x-ray radiation during a treatment session and a collimator that collimates the emitted x-ray radiation into a x-ray beam having a cross-sectional dimension of less than about 6 mm as the beam exits the collimator; a mapping module that repeatedly maps a location of the target tissue to a coordinate system during the treatment session; a movement module that directs the emitted x-ray radiation along a trajectory that is based, at least in part, on at least one mapped location of the coordinate system; and a targeting module that emits a target light that indicates an approximate center of a beam spot of the x-ray beam. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising a radiation source mover that moves the radiation source relative to the target tissue to direct the emitted x-ray radiation toward the target tissue. 6. The system of claim 4, wherein the radiation source is configured to be stationary relative to a position of the target tissue during the treatment session. 7. The system of claim 4, further comprising a system shut-off that reduces or ceases emission of radiation when the target tissue is not in a path of the collimated beam. 8. The system of claim 4, wherein the target light comprises laser light. 9. A method, of applying x-ray radiation to target tissue, comprising: obtaining imaging data indicative of a target tissue; identifying, based on the imaging data, a location of the target tissue; repeatedly mapping the location of the target tissue in the coordinate system, thereby producing mapped locations of the target tissue in the coordinate system; positioning, based on the mapped locations of the target tissue in the coordinate system, an x-ray collimator that directs an x-ray beam to the target tissue; and emitting the x-ray beam from the collimator to the target tissue, the x-ray beam having an energy of from about 1 KeV to about 500 KeV; wherein the x-ray beam has a dose distribution at a beam spot in a plane at the target tissue, such that a dose of the x-ray beam at a region within the plane and outside the beam spot is less than about 20% of a dose at a centroid of the beam spot. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising making an incision in tissue overlying the target tissue, prior to emitting the x-ray beam toward the target tissue. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein positioning the x-ray collimator further comprises placing a probe at or adjacent the target tissue. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the target tissue is located in a head of a patient. 13. The method of claim 9, wherein the target tissue is located in the vasculature of a patient. 14. The method of claim 9, wherein the target tissue comprises peripheral vasculature. 15. The method of claim 9, wherein the target tissue is located in the heart of a patient. 16. The method of claim 9, wherein the target tissue is located in the gastrointestinal tract of a patient. 17. The method of claim 9, wherein the target tissue comprises at least one of the colon and the rectum of a patient. 18. The method of claim 9, wherein a tumor comprises the target tissue. 19. The method of claim 9, wherein the target tissue is located in a breast of a patient. 20. The method of claim 9, wherein the target tissue comprises musculoskeletal tissue. 21. The method of claim 9, wherein the target tissue comprises at least one of the liver and the spleen of a patient. 22. The method of claim 9, wherein the beam spot has a cross-sectional dimension smaller than about 1 mm. 23. The method of claim 9, wherein the beam spot has a diameter of between about 1 mm and about 5 mm. 24. The method of claim 9, wherein the x-ray beam comprises alternating regions of higher intensity and lower intensity. 25. The method of claim 9, further comprising making an incision in tissue overlying the target tissue, prior to emitting the x-ray beam toward the target tissue. 26. The method of claim 9, further comprising positioning the target tissue in or on a holding module, wherein the holding module holds the target tissue substantially stationarily while the location of the target tissue is mapped in the coordinate system. 