A system for treating distinct batches of workpieces to serial procedures comprises first and second multi-site structures. In each multi-site structure the sites are rotatable for alignment in turn with loading and unloading stations together constituting treatment or process stations. Workpieces of a batch are loaded onto all of the treatment sites and then simultaneously and identically treated by operation of treatment stations with which the process sites are aligned. After treatment in the first structure, workpieces of a batch are transferred from the unloading stations of the first structure to the loading stations of the second structure for further processing.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of treating a plurality of semiconductor wafers implanted with atoms defining a cleave plane and a plurality of substrates, one of the semiconductor wafers together with one of the substrates constituting a workpiece, the method comprising: a) configuring a bonding chamber with i) a plurality of pairs of bonding sites, ii) a plurality of bonding stations, equal in number to the bonding sites, comprising a pair of loading stations and a pair of unloading stations distinct from the loading stations, and iii) a bonding base, on which the bonding sites are fixed, rotatable about an axis to align each pair of the bonding sites alternatively with the loading and unloading stations; b) alternately, until all of the bonding sites bear respective workpieces for bonding, at each loading station, loading a workpiece onto a vacant bonding site and rotating the bonding base to align a vacant pair of the bonding sites with the loading stations; c) operating the bonding stations simultaneously, while holding the bonding base stationary, so that at each of the bonding sites, aligned with respective bonding stations, a semiconductor wafer and a substrate form a bonded structure; d) configuring an exfoliation chamber with i) a plurality of exfoliation sites, ii) a plurality of exfoliation stations, equal in number to the exfoliation sites, comprising a pair of loading stations and a pair of unloading stations, distinct from the loading stations of the exfoliation chamber, and iii) an exfoliation base, on which the exfoliation sites are fixed, rotatable about an axis to align pairs of the exfoliation sites alternatively with the loading and unloading stations of the exfoliation chamber; e) alternately, until all of the exfoliation sites bear respective bonded structures transferred from the bonding chamber, i) from each unloading station of the bonding chamber transferring a bonded structure onto an unoccupied exfoliation site aligned with a loading station of the exfoliation chamber, and ii) rotating the exfoliation base to align a vacant pair of the exfoliation sites with the loading stations of the exfoliation chamber; and f) operating the exfoliation stations simultaneously, while holding the exfoliation base stationary, so that at each of the exfoliation sites, aligned with respective exfoliation stations, the semiconductor wafer of a bonded structure exfoliates a lamina bonded to its substrate, thereby defining a lamina-receiver assembly. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein at each exfoliation site the lamina-receiver assembly is suitable for fabrication of a photovoltaic device. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein at each exfoliation site the atoms defining the cleave plane are helium or hydrogen, and the lamina is at least 1 .mu.m thick. 4. A method of simultaneously treating a plurality of workpieces, comprising: a) configuring a first structure with i) a plurality of treatment sites each configured to hold a workpiece, ii) a plurality of treatment stations, equal in number to the treatment sites, comprising one or more loading stations, each for receiving a workpiece for treatment, and one or more unloading stations, each for removing a workpiece after treatment, wherein the loading and unloading stations are equal in number and mutually distinct and each of the treatment stations is configured with an active component movable within the treatment station, and iii) a treatment base on which the treatment sites are fixed, rotatable about an axis to align each of the treatment sites in turn with respective treatment stations for receiving a workpiece for treatment and removing a workpiece after treatment; b) alternately, until all of the treatment sites bear respective workpieces for treatment, at each loading station, loading a workpiece onto a vacant treatment site and rotating the base to an orientation in which each loading station has a vacant treatment site aligned therewith; c) operating the treatment stations by moving active components toward respective workpieces loaded onto respective treatment sites aligned with respective treatment stations, thereby treating all of the workpieces simultaneously and identically while holding the treatment base stationary; d) configuring a second structure with i) a plurality of process sites each configured to hold a workpiece treated in the first structure, ii) a plurality of process stations comprising one or more loading stations, each for receiving a workpiece for processing, and one or more unloading stations, each for removing a workpiece after processing, and iii) a process base on which the process sites are fixed, rotatable about an axis to align each of the process sites in turn for receiving a workpiece for processing and removing a workpiece after processing; and e) alternately, until all of the process sites bear respective transferred workpieces, from each unloading station of the first structure, transferring a workpiece onto an unoccupied process site aligned with a loading station of the second structure, and rotating the process base to an orientation in which each loading station of the second structure has an unoccupied process site aligned therewith. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the process stations are configured with respective active components movable within their process stations and further comprising moving active components of the process stations toward respective workpieces transferred onto respective process sites aligned with respective process stations, thereby processing all of the workpieces simultaneously while holding the process base stationery. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein treating all of the workpieces causes, at each of the treatment sites, a first body to bond to a second body, and processing all of the workpieces causes, at each of the process sites, the first body to exfoliate a lamina at least 1 .mu.m thick bonded to the second body to define a lamina-receiver assembly. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein treating all of the workpieces occurs concurrently with processing all of the workpieces. 8. The method of claim 4 wherein treating all of the workpieces causes, at each of the treatment sites, a first body to bond to a second body. 9. The method of claim 4 wherein processing all of the workpieces causes, at each of the process sites, a lamina to exfoliate from a body implanted with atoms defining a cleave plane. 10. The method of claim 4 wherein treating all of the workpieces further comprises, in each of the treatment stations, transferring heat from the active component to heat a workpiece on an aligned treatment site to at least 300.degree. C. 11. The method of claim 4 wherein loading a workpiece onto a vacant treatment site at each loading station of the first structure occurs concurrently with transferring a workpiece from each unloading station of the first structure onto an unoccupied process site. 12. The method of claim 4 wherein transferring a workpiece from each unloading station of the first structure onto an unoccupied process site occurs in less than 15 seconds. 13. The method of claim 4 wherein the temperature of each of the workpieces reaches at least 400.degree. C. during treating all of the workpieces and decreases no more than 100.degree. C. during transferring onto an unoccupied process site. 14. The method of claim 4 wherein the first structure further comprises an enclosure having a loading gate and an unloading gate, distinct from the loading gate, and housing the treatment sites, loading a workpiece onto a vacant treatment site occurs through the loading gate, and transferring a workpiece from each unloading station of the first structure occurs through the unloading gate. 15. The method of claim 4 wherein treating all the workpieces further comprises, in each of the treatment stations, applying a voltage across a workpiece on an aligned treatment site. 16. A method of simultaneously treating a plurality of workpieces, the method comprising: a) configuring a first structure with i) a plurality of nonoverlapping pairs of treatment sites each configured to hold a workpiece, ii) a plurality of treatment stations, equal in number to the treatment sites, comprising a pair of loading stations and a pair of unloading stations distinct from the unloading stations, iii) a treatment base, on which the treatment sites are fixed, rotatable about an axis to align each of the pairs of treatment sites in turn with the loading and unloading stations; and b) alternately, until all of the treatment sites bear respective workpieces, at each loading station, loading a workpiece onto a vacant treatment site and rotating the base to align a vacant pair of the treatment sites with the loading stations; c) operating the treatment stations to treat simultaneously and identically workpieces on all of the treatment sites, aligned with respective treatment stations, by heating the workpieces to at least 400.degree. C. while holding the treatment base stationary, d) configuring a second structure with i) a plurality of pairs of process sites each configured to hold a workpiece treated in the first structure, ii) a plurality of process stations, equal in number to the process sites, comprising a pair of loading stations and a pair of unloading stations, and iii) a process base, on which the process sites are fixed, rotatable about an axis to align each of the pairs of the process sites in turn with its loading and unloading stations; and e) alternately, until all of the process sites bear respective workpieces transferred from the first structure, simultaneously from each unloading station of the first structure, transferring a workpiece onto an unoccupied process site aligned with a loading station of the second structure, and rotating the process base to align an unoccupied pair of the process sites with the loading stations of the second structure. 17. The method of claim 16 further comprising holding the process base stationary while operating the process stations to process simultaneously workpieces on all of the process sites, aligned with respective process stations. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the treatment sites or the processing sites comprise respective workpiece supports adjustable in position on the treatment base or the processing base, respectively, and further comprising adjusting the positions of the respective adjustable workpiece supports and fixing the respective positions before operating the treatment stations or operating the process stations, respectively. 19. The method of claim 16 wherein the first structure further comprises an enclosure having an input gate and an output gate, distinct from the input gate, and housing the treatment sites, loading a workpiece onto a vacant treatment site occurs through the input gate, and transferring a workpiece from each unloading station of the first structure occurs through the unloading gate. 20. The method of claim 16 wherein during transferring a workpiece from each unloading station of the first structure onto an unoccupied process site the temperature of a transferred workpiece decreases less than 100.degree. C. 21. The method of claim 16 wherein operating the treatment stations causes, at each of the treatment sites, a first body to bond to a second body. 22. The method of claim 16 wherein operating the process stations causes, at each of the process sites, a first body implanted with atoms defining a cleave plane to exfoliate a lamina bonded to a second body. 