Disclosed herein are methods and compositions for producing articular repair materials and for repairing an articular surface. In particular, methods for providing articular repair systems. Also provided are articular surface repair systems designed to replace a selected area cartilage, for example, and surgical tools for repairing articular surfaces.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing an articular implant for repairing articular cartilage of a joint, the articular implant having an inner surface for facing bone and an outer surface for facing a cavity of the joint, the method including: obtaining image data of the joint, the image data including shape information of an articular surface of the joint; deriving a desired shape of the articular implant based at least in part on the shape information; and designing and manufacturing the articular implant with the outer surface of the implant based, at least in part, on the desired shape, and wherein at least a portion of the inner surface includes a planar surface configured to abut a cut bone surface when the articular implant is implanted on the joint during a surgical procedure, and wherein the cut bone surface has a predetermined position or orientation relative to at least one of an anatomical and mechanical axis of the joint. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the articular implant includes an attachment mechanism for fixing the articular implant to the joint. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the designing and manufacturing step further includes selecting a pre-existing implant having a pre-existing shape and further manipulating one or more dimensions of the selected implant. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more dimensions comprises a size of the selected implant. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more dimensions comprises a thickness of the selected implant. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more dimensions comprises a curvature of the selected implant. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the deriving step further includes deriving the shape of the subchondral bone from the shape information. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the designing and manufacturing step includes designing and manufacturing the articular implant such that at least a portion of the inner surface of the implant achieves a near anatomic fit with a portion of the subchondral bone of the joint. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the deriving step further includes deriving the shape of the articular cartilage from the shape information. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the designing and manufacturing step includes designing and manufacturing the articular implant such that at least a portion of the outer surface of the implant achieves a near anatomic fit with surrounding natural cartilage of the joint. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the designing and manufacturing step includes designing and manufacturing the articular implant such that at least a portion of the outer surface of the implant achieves a near anatomic fit with adjacent natural cartilage of the joint. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of obtaining the image of the joint comprises obtaining the image from at least one member of the group comprising MRI, CT, ultrasound, laser, digital tomosynthesis, optical coherence tomography and optical imaging. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of obtaining the image of the joint comprises obtaining the image from at least one member of the group comprising a knee, a femoral condyle, a tibial plateau, a patella, a femoral head, an acetabulum, a shoulder, a hip, a vertebrae, an elbow and an ankle. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the designing and manufacturing step is performed utilizing Computer Aided Design or Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAD/CAM) techniques. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the designing and manufacturing step is performed automatically. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the obtaining, deriving or designing and manufacturing steps requires human intervention. 17. A method of manufacturing an articular implant for repairing articular cartilage of a joint, the articular implant having an inner surface for facing bone and an outer surface for facing a cavity of the joint, the method including: obtaining image data of the joint, deriving from the image data shape information of at least one of normal, diseased or damaged articular cartilage of the joint; deriving a desired shape of the articular implant based at least in part on the derived shape information; and designing and manufacturing the articular implant with the outer surface of the implant based, at least in part, on the desired shape, and wherein at least a portion of the inner surface includes a planar surface configured to abut a cut bone surface when the articular implant is implanted on the joint during a surgical procedure, and wherein the cut bone surface has a predetermined position or orientation relative to at least one of an anatomical and mechanical axis of the joint. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the articular implant includes an attachment mechanism for fixing the articular implant to the joint. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the designing and manufacturing step further includes selecting a pre-existing implant having a pre-existing shape and further manipulating one or more dimensions of the selected implant. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the one or more dimensions comprises a size of the selected implant. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the one or more dimensions comprises a thickness of the selected implant. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the one or more dimensions comprises a curvature of the selected implant. 23. The method of claim 17, wherein the deriving step further includes deriving the shape of the subchondral bone from the shape information. 24. The method of claim 17, wherein the designing and manufacturing step is performed automatically. 25. The method of claim 17, wherein at least one of the obtaining, deriving or designing and manufacturing steps requires human intervention. 26. A method of manufacturing an articular implant for repairing articular cartilage of a joint, the articular implant having an inner surface for facing bone and an outer surface for facing a cavity of the joint, the method including: obtaining image data of the joint, deriving from the image data shape information of subchondral bone of the joint; deriving a desired shape of the articular implant based at least in part on the shape information; and designing and manufacturing the articular implant with the outer surface of the implant based, at least in part, on the desired shape, and wherein at least a portion of the inner surface includes a planar surface configured to abut a cut bone surface when the articular implant is implanted on the joint during a surgical procedure, and wherein the cut bone surface has a predetermined position or orientation relative to at least one of an anatomical and mechanical axis of the joint. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the articular implant includes an attachment mechanism for fixing the articular implant to the joint. 28. The method of claim 26, wherein the designing and manufacturing step further includes selecting a pre-existing implant having a pre-existing shape and further manipulating one or more dimensions of the selected implant. 29. The method of claim 28, wherein the one or more dimensions comprises a size of the selected implant. 30. The method of claim 28, wherein the one or more dimensions comprises a thickness of the selected implant. 31. The method of claim 28, wherein the one or more dimensions comprises a curvature of the selected implant. 32. The method of claim 26, wherein the deriving step further includes deriving the shape of the articular cartilage from the shape information. 33. The method of claim 26, wherein the designing and manufacturing step is performed automatically. 34. The method of claim 26, wherein at least one of the obtaining, deriving or designing and manufacturing steps requires human intervention. 