Shape animation is described. In one aspect, examples that pertain to a shape or motion that is to be animated are provided. The examples are placed within a multi-dimensional abstract space. Each dimension of the abstract space is defined by at least one of an adjective and an adverb. A point within the multi-dimensional abstract space is selected. The selected point does not coincide with a point that is associated with any of the examples. The selected point corresponds to a shape or motion within the abstract space. A single weight value for each of the examples is computed. The single weight values for each of the examples are combined in a manner that defines an interpolated shape or motion that is a blended combination of each of the examples of the set of examples.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A blending method comprising: providing a set of examples that pertain to a shape or motion that is to be animated, the examples being placed within a multi-dimensional abstract space, wherein each dimension of the abstract space is defined by at least one of an adjective and an adverb, each adjective and adverb representing a respective axis in the multi-dimensional abstract space; selecting a point within the multi-dimensional abstract space that does not coincide with a point that is associated with any of the examples, the selected point corresponding to a new shape or motion within the abstract space; linearly approximating a degree of freedom that is associated with the new shape or the motion based upon the set of examples; computing a scaled radial basis function for each of the examples by scaling a radial basis function for each example, the scaling comprising evaluating a matrix system to ascertain a plurality of scaling weights, individual weights of which are used to scale the radial basis functions; combining the linear approximation and the scaled radial basis functions to provide a cardinal basis function; and using the cardinal basis function to render the new shape or motion at the selected point within the multi-dimensional abstract space. 2. The blending method of claim 1, wherein the selecting is performed by an application. 3. The blending method of claim 1, wherein the selecting is performed by a game application. 4. The blending method of claim 1, wherein the selecting is performed at run time. 5. The blending method of claim 1, wherein the computing is performed at run time. 6. The blending method of claim 1, wherein the computing and combining are performed at run time. 7. The blending method of claim 1, wherein the combining comprises: defining a cardinal basis for each example; and evaluating the cardinal basis for each example relative to the selected point to provide a weight value used to define the new shape or motion at the selected point in the multi-dimensional abstract space. 8. The blending method of claim 7, wherein the cardinal basis comprises: a radial basis function portion; and another portion that is different from the radial basis function portion. 9. The blending method of claim 8, wherein the another portion is not a radial basis function portion. 10. The blending method of claim 8, wherein the another portion is a linear portion. 11. One or more computer-readable media having computer-readable instructions thereon which, when executed by a computer, implement the method of claim 1. 12. A computerized blending system that is programmed with instructions which, when executed by the system, implement the method of claim 1. 13. A blending method comprising: linearly approximating a degrees of freedom that are associated with a new form or motion that is to be rendered based upon a plurality of examples that define respective forms or motions within a multi-dimensional abstract space, wherein each dimension of the abstract space is a respective axis defined by at least one of an adjective and an adverb, wherein the linearly approximating is performed for each example; defining a scaled radial basis function for each of the examples by scaling a radial basis function for each example, the scaling comprising evaluating a matrix system to ascertain a plurality of scaling weights, individual weights of which are used to scale the radial basis functions; defining cardinal basis functions by combining for each example, the respective linear approximations and scaled radial basis functions; and using the cardinal basis function to render the new form or motion. 14. The blending method of claim 13, wherein the matrix system is configured so that its evaluation yields scaling weights which, when used to scale a corresponding radial basis functions, result in a combination of the radial basis functions and the linear approximation to provide the cardinal basis function. 15. The blending method of claim 13, wherein the radial basis functions are selected from a b-spline family of radial basis functions. 16. The blending method of claim 13, wherein the linearly approximating comprises approximating the degree of freedom with a least squares linear approximation. 17. One or more computer-readable media having computer-readable instructions thereon which, when executed by a computer, implement the method of claim 13. 18. The blending method of claim 13, wherein a new example is inserted within the multi-dimensional abstract space and a new form or motion is generated. 