A predictive robot includes a prediction-related item storage to store terms related to prediction performance, a first communicator which transmits stored prediction-related terms and receives a search result of information search with regard to the prediction-related terms, a search controller to control information search of the prediction-related terms stored in the prediction-related item storage via the first communicator, a media converter to convert the search result into a notification medium, and a notification section to provide the search result by the notification medium. Preferably, predictive information is provided spontaneously.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A predictive robot comprising: a prediction-related item storage to store terms related to prediction performance; a first communicator which transmits stored prediction-related terms and receives a search result of information search with regard to the prediction-related terms; a search controller to control information search of the prediction-related terms stored in the prediction-related item storage via the first communicator; a media converter to convert the search result into a notification medium; and a notification section to provide the search result by the notification medium, wherein predictive information is provided spontaneously. 2. The predictive robot according to claim 1, further comprising: a marking detector to detect marking data which a user has marked by another device, by way of the first communicator; and a prediction-related term detector which compares the marking data with prediction-related terms stored in the prediction-related item storage, thereby detects a new prediction-related term, wherein the new prediction-related term is stored in the prediction-related item storage. 3. The predictive robot according to claim 2, wherein the prediction-related term detector performs retrieval to check whether or not the new prediction-related term exists as a word, by way of the first communicator. 4. The predictive robot according to claim 1, further comprising: a personal authenticator to authenticate a person, wherein the predictive information is provided to a authenticated person from the notification medium. 5. The predictive robot according to claim 1, further comprising: a voice collection section to collect a user's voice; a voice recognition section to recognize the user's voice collected by the voice collection section; and a prediction-related term detector which compares with prediction-related terms stored in the prediction-related item storage, thereby detects a new prediction-related term of vocabularies recognized by the voice recognition section, wherein the prediction-related term is stored in the prediction-related item storage. 6. The predictive robot according to claim 5, wherein the prediction-related term detector performs retrieval to check whether or not the new prediction-related term exists as a word, by way of the first communicator. 7. A predictive robot comprising: a prediction-related item storage to store terms related to prediction performance; a first communicator which transmits stored prediction-related terms and receives a search result of information search with regard to the prediction-related terms; a search controller to control information search of the prediction-related terms stored in the prediction-related item storage via the first communicator; a dialog generator to generate a predictive content by comparison of the search result with past search results; a media converter to convert the predictive content into a notification medium; and a notification section to provide the search result by the notification medium, wherein predictive information is provided spontaneously. 8. The predictive robot according to claim 7, further comprising: a personal authenticator to authenticate a person, wherein the predictive information is provided to a authenticated person from the notification medium. 9. The predictive robot according to claim 7, further comprising: a marking detector to detect marking data which a user has marked by another device, by way of the first communicator; and a prediction-related term detector which compares the marking data with prediction-related terms stored in the prediction-related item storage, thereby detects a new prediction-related term, wherein the new prediction-related term is stored in the prediction-related item storage. 10. The predictive robot according to claim 9, wherein the prediction-related term detector performs retrieval to check whether or not the new prediction-related term exists as a word, by way of the first communicator. 11. The predictive robot according to claim 7, further comprising: a voice collection section to collect a user's voice; a voice recognition section to recognize the user's voice collected by the voice collection section; and a prediction-related term detector which compares with prediction-related terms stored in the prediction-related item storage, thereby detects a new prediction-related term of vocabularies recognized by the voice recognition section, wherein the prediction-related term is stored in the prediction-related item storage. 12. The predictive robot according to claim 11, wherein the prediction-related term detector performs retrieval to check whether or not the new prediction-related term exists as a word, by way of the first communicator. 13. A control method for predictive robot, comprising: transmitting a prediction-related term from a prediction-related item storage which stores terms related to prediction performance, by way of a first communicator; receiving a search result of information search of the prediction-related term performed by the first communicator; controlling information search of the prediction-related term stored in the prediction-related item storage by way of the first communicator; converting the search result into a notification medium; and providing spontaneously predictive information by the notification medium. 14. A predictive robot system comprising: a predictive robot which includes: a prediction-related item storage to store terms related to prediction performance; a first communicator which transmits stored prediction-related terms and receives a search result of information search with regard to the prediction-related terms; a search controller to control information search of the prediction-related terms stored in the prediction-related item storage, via the first communicator; a media converter to convert the search result into a notification medium; and a notification section to provide the search result by the notification medium; and a service provider which includes: a search section to perform information retrieval of the prediction-related term; a search result storage to store a search result retrieved by the search section; and a second communicator to receive the prediction-related term and transmit the search result of information search with regard to the prediction-related term, wherein predictive information is provided spontaneously. 