An improved take-off device for an injection molding machine that includes an extensible sleeve for extending a suction channel during transfer of parts from the mold core assembly to the take-off device, the tube being retractable after the parts have been transferred.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of transferring a molded article from an injection mold into a molded article support structure arranged on a take-off device, the support structure including a suction structure for configuring a suction channel therealong and a suction channel extension having a portion that is selectively extensible relative to a distal end of the support structure for extending the suction channel into a region between the distal end of the support structure and the injection mold for assisting with the transfer of the molded article therebetween, the transfer method including the steps of: positioning the molded article support structure adjacent the molded article in the injection mold; extending the suction channel extension into the region between the distal end of the support structure and the injection mold; providing a suction force along the suction channel to draw the molded article into the support structure; and retracting the suction channel extension when the molded article has been received in the support structure while contemporaneously maintaining the suction force so that the molded article is fully drawn into the support structure. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of retracting the suction channel extension is performed is moved into the support structure. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the suction channel extension is a sleeve, and wherein the step of retracting comprises the step of moving the sleeve in the same direction as the movement of the molded article into the support structure. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the suction channel extension is a collapsible membrane, and wherein the step of retracting comprises the step of at least partially collapsing the collapsible membrane. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of retracting the suction channel extension is performed when the molded article has been fully received in the support structure. 