A miniature volumetric spherical geometry with multiple symmetric feeds is spaced from the surface of the vehicle or platform, with the antenna exhibiting both circular polarization that is orientation-independent or angle of arrival independent, while at the same time covering a broad band of frequencies from 243-318 MHz in one embodiment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An ultra compact UHF satcom antenna mountable on a platform that forms a ground plane, comprising: a cubic substrate having antenna elements thereon, said cubic substrate having sides carrying rectilinear elements and a top and bottom having triangular elements with opposed triangular elements having opposed apexes, the elements on the top of said cube being a mirror image of those on the bottom of said cubic substrate; and, a phasing network coupled to selected elements on the bottom of said cubic substrate for providing a circular polarization characteristic for said antenna at least in a hemisphere with said antenna at its center. 2. The antenna of claim 1, wherein the vertices of selected elements on the bottom of said cube are successively phased at 0 degrees, 90 degrees, 180 degrees and 270 degrees. 3. The antenna of claim 1, wherein said triangular elements are phased so as to provide crossed vertical loops fed 90 degrees out of phase with each other. 4. The antenna of claim 1, wherein said phasing network includes a pair of hybrid networks, each having an input and two outputs, and a 90 degree hybrid network having one output coupled to an input of one of said 180 degree hybrids and another output coupled to an input of the other said 180 degree hybrids. 5. The antenna of claim 4, wherein said 90 degree hybrid has two inputs, one of said inputs being responsible for a right hand circular polarization characteristic of said antenna and the other said inputs being responsible for left hand circular polarization characteristic of said antenna. 6. The antenna of claim 4, wherein the outputs of said 180 degree hybrids are respectively 0 degrees, 90 degrees, 180 degrees and 270 degrees, thereby to provide a right hand circular polarization characteristic for said antenna. 7. The antenna of claim 4, wherein the outputs of said hybrids are respectively 0 degrees, minus 90 degrees, 80 degrees and 90 degrees, thereby to provide a left hand circular polarization characteristic for said antenna. 8. The antenna of claim 4, and further including a summer having one output coupled to the other of the inputs to the first of said 180 degree hybrids and having a second output coupled to the other input to the second of said 180 degree hybrids, whereby said antenna serves both as a circular polarization satcom antenna and a vertically polarized line-of-sight antenna. 9. The antenna of claim 1, wherein said cubic substrate is spaced from said platform. 10. The antenna of claim 9, wherein said spacing is such that said ground plane operates to fill in a horizontal component so that said antenna operates in an orientation-independent fashion presenting a circular polarization characteristic regardless of the angles of arrival of an incoming signal. 11. The antenna of claim 10, wherein said spacing is 1.5 inches above said platform. 12. The antenna of claim 1, and further including a tuning plate adjustable above the top surface of the elements on the top surface by said cubic substrate for fine tuning of said antenna. 13. The antenna of claim 1, and further including matching and balancing impedances at the edges of said cube. 14. The antenna of claim 13, wherein said matching and balancing impedances include a capacitor and a meanderline. 15. A method for providing a compact orientation-independent antenna, comprising: providing a cubic antenna substrate; locating quadrature antenna elements on the bottom of the cubic substrate; providing matching quadrature antenna elements on the top of the cubic substrate; locating the cubic substrate with the elements thereon above a ground plane; and, driving the elements on the bottom of the cubic substrate to produce a pair of vertical crossed loops that provide circular polarization at the azimuth of the antenna, the ground plane providing horizontal components to fill in so that the antenna has a circular polarization characteristic at or near the horizontal. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the quadrature elements at the bottom of the cubic substrate are progressively phased at 0 degrees, 90 degrees, 180 degrees and 270 degrees. 