Method and apparatus for multi-destination pick using motes. In embodiments, each receptacle may be assigned to a destination and may have a sensor that detects when an item is placed in the receptacle to deactivate the indicator and/or to verify that the item was placed in the correct receptacle. The sensor may be coupled via a wired or wireless connection to a mote that may include a communication interface for communicating with a control system and with other motes in an ad-hoc network. In some embodiments, each mote may also include an indicator that may be activated by a control system to indicate to the agent that the receptacle is the destination receptacle for a picked item. The agent may then place the item in the indicated destination receptacle. In one embodiment, the mote on the destination receptacle may be activated when the picked item is scanned by the agent.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-accessible storage medium storing program instructions, wherein the program instructions are computer-executable to implement: providing a list of items to be picked from a materials handling facility to an agent of the materials handling facility, wherein the list of items includes items for two or more destinations in the materials handling facility; assigning a receptacle to each of the two or more destinations for the items on the list of items, wherein each receptacle has a mote comprising a communications interface and coupled to a sensor configured to detect placement of an item in the receptacle; directing the agent in picking the items on the list of items from the materials handling facility into the two or more receptacles, wherein said directing comprises, for each item picked: receiving information from the mote on the one of the receptacles in which the item is placed indicating that the sensor detected placement of the item in the receptacle; determining if the item was placed in the correct receptacle assigned to the destination of the item in response to receiving said information; and if the item was placed in an incorrect receptacle, indicating to the agent that the item was placed in the incorrect receptacle. 2. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 1, wherein the program instructions are further computer-executable to implement, if the item was placed in the correct receptacle, indicating to the agent that the item was placed in the correct receptacle. 3. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 1, wherein the program instructions are further computer-executable to implement: receiving information about the item from a communications device configured to send the information entered by the agent; and sending a message to the mote on the one of the receptacles assigned to the destination for the item to activate an indicator coupled to the mote in response to said receiving the information to indicate to the agent that the item is to be placed in the indicated receptacle. 4. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 1, wherein the destinations include one or more of sorting stations, packing stations, and stations for performing value-added services. 5. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and a computer-accessible storage medium storing program instructions, wherein the program instructions are executable by the one or more processors to implement: providing a list of items to be picked from a materials handling facility to an agent of the materials handling facility, wherein the list of items includes items for two or more destinations in the materials handling facility; assigning a receptacle to each of the two or more destinations for the items on the list of items, wherein each receptacle has a mote comprising a communications interface and coupled to a sensor configured to detect placement of an item in the receptacle; directing the agent in picking the items on the list of items from the materials handling facility into the two or more receptacles, wherein said directing comprises, for each item picked: receiving information from the mote on the one of the receptacles in which the item is placed indicating that the sensor detected placement of the item in the receptacle; determining if the item was placed in the correct receptacle assigned to the destination of the item in response to receiving said information; and if the item was placed in an incorrect receptacle, indicating to the agent that the item was placed in the incorrect receptacle. 6. The system as recited in claim 5, wherein the program instructions are further executable to implement, if the item was placed in the correct receptacle, indicating to the agent that the item was placed in the correct receptacle. 7. The system as recited in claim 5, wherein the program instructions are further executable to implement: receiving information about the item from a communications device configured to send the information entered by the agent; and sending a message to the mote on the one of the receptacles assigned to the destination for the item to activate an indicator coupled to the mote in response to said receiving the information to indicate to the agent that the item is to be placed in the indicated receptacle. 8. The system as recited in claim 5, wherein the destinations include one or more of sorting stations, packing stations, and stations for performing value-added services. 