A method of conducting amplification comprising loading a liquid polynucleotide sample into a well of a microplate and covering the well of the microplate with a cover, such that the cover fluidly seals the liquid polynucleotide sample within the well. The method then comprises inverting the microplate such that the liquid polynucleotide sample contacts the cover; and thermocycling the microplate to promote amplification of polynucleotides in the liquid polynucleotide sample.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microplate for conducting a PCR amplification of polynucleotide, the microplate comprising: a main body having a first surface and an opposing second surface and a plurality of material retention regions in or on the main body, each of the plurality of material retention regions sized to receive a liquid sample to be thermocycled; and a first sealing cover adjacent the first surface of the main body and preventing fluid communication between at least a first of the plurality of material retention regions and a second of the plurality of material retention regions when the first and second of the plurality of material retention regions contain the liquid sample, wherein the liquid sample is in contact with the first sealing cover when the main body is inverted. 2. The microplate of claim 1, wherein the plurality of material retention regions comprise a plurality of through-holes, each of the plurality of through-holes having a first opening on the first surface and a second opening on the second surface, the first sealing cover prevents fluid communication between a first opening of a first of the plurality of through-holes and a first opening of a second of the plurality of through-holes; and the microplate further comprises: a second sealing cover adjacent the second surface of the main body and preventing fluid communication between a second opening of the first of the plurality of through-holes and a second opening of the second of the plurality of through-holes. 3. A method for performing PCR amplification of a liquid polynucleotide sample, the method comprising: loading a quantity of liquid polynucleotide sample into a microplate, the microplate having a main body having a first surface and an opposing second surface and a plurality of material retention regions in or on the main body, each of the plurality of material retention regions retaining a portion of the quantity of the liquid polynucleotide sample; covering the first surface of the main body with a sealing cover, thereby isolating the liquid polynucleotide sample retained in a first of the plurality of material retention regions from the liquid polynucleotide sample retained in a second of the plurality of material retention regions; inverting the microplate, thereby placing the microplate in an inverted position; and thermocycling the liquid polynucleotide sample in contact with the sealing cover while the microplate is in the inverted position. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein each of the plurality of material retention regions comprises a through-hole, each through-hole having a first opening on the first surface and a second opening on the second surface. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the microplate has a foil cover adjacent the second surface of the main body and the method further comprises: placing the foil cover of the inverted microplate in thermal communication with a thermal block for thermocycling. 6. A method for analyzing a liquid polynucleotide sample, the method comprising: loading a quantity of liquid polynucleotide sample into a microplate, the microplate having a main body having a first surface and an opposing second surface and a plurality of material retention regions in or on the main body, each of the plurality of material retention regions retaining a portion of the quantity of the liquid polynucleotide sample; covering the first surface of the main body with a sealing cover, thereby isolating the liquid polynucleotide sample retained in a first of the plurality of material retention regions from the liquid polynucleotide sample retained in a second of the plurality of material retention regions; inverting the microplate, thereby placing the microplate in an inverted position, while the microplate is in the inverted position, thermocycling the liquid polynucleotide sample in contact with the sealing cover; and measuring a fluorescent emission from at least one of the plurality of material retention regions through the sealing cover. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein each of the plurality of material retention regions comprises a through-hole, each through-hole having a first opening on the first surface and a second opening on the second surface. 8. The method of claim 7 further comprising: placing the sealing cover of the inverted microplate adjacent a transparent window; heating the transparent window; and measuring a fluorescent emission from at least one of the plurality of through-holes through the transparent window. 