A transmission includes a drive member, a driven member having a connection mechanism, and an at least partially flexible transmission coupled to the drive member and the connection mechanism of the driven member and configured to cause movement of the driven member in response to movement of the drive member. The connection mechanism is configured to be adjusted to vary a tension force applied to the flexible transmission.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transmission, comprising: a drive member; a driven member having a connection mechanism; and an at least partially flexible transmission coupled to the drive member and the connection mechanism of the driven member and configured to cause movement of the driven member in response to movement of the drive member, wherein the flexible transmission comprises a plurality of tension elements, wherein the connection mechanism is configured to be adjusted to vary a tension force applied to the flexible transmission, and wherein the connection mechanism includes a coupling member configured to receive an end of a tension element of the flexible transmission, wherein the coupling member is configured to inhibit rotation of the tension element when the connection mechanism is adjusted to vary the tension force applied to the flexible transmission. 2. The transmission of claim 1, wherein the connection mechanism is configured to be adjusted to independently vary a tension force applied to each of the plurality of tension elements. 3. The transmission of claim 1, wherein the plurality of tension elements includes first and second tension elements and the transmission includes a guide member configured to maintain a portion of the first tension element substantially parallel with a portion of the second tension element. 4. The transmission of claim 1, wherein the driven member includes a slot configured to receive the coupling member. 5. The transmission of claim 4, wherein the coupling member is configured to secure the end of the tension element in at least a first location and a second location. 6. The transmission of claim 1, wherein the connection mechanism includes a first coupling component and a second coupling component disposed remotely from the first coupling component. 7. The transmission of claim 6, wherein the flexible transmission includes a first tension element coupled to the first coupling component and a second tension element coupled to the second coupling component. 8. The transmission of claim 7, wherein the first tension element is configured to cause movement of the driven member in a first direction in response to a first movement of the drive member and the second tension element is configured to cause movement of the driven member in a second direction in response to a second movement of the drive member. 9. The transmission of claim 1, wherein the flexible transmission includes a first tension element that extends from a first side of the connection mechanism and a second tension element that extends from a second side of the connection mechanism. 10. The transmission of claim 9, wherein the first tension element is configured to cause movement of the driven member in a first direction in response to a first movement of the drive member and the second tension element is configured to cause movement of the driven member in a second direction in response to a second movement of the drive member. 11. The transmission of claim 1, wherein the driven member includes a pulley and the connection mechanism forms a portion of a circumferential perimeter of the pulley. 12. The transmission of claim 11, wherein the connection mechanism includes an adjustment member for adjusting the connection mechanism to vary the tension force applied to the flexible transmission, and wherein the adjustment member is disposed at least partially inwardly of the circumferential perimeter of the pulley. 13. The transmission of claim 1, wherein the flexible transmission includes a first tension element that extends in a first direction from an upper portion of the connection mechanism and a second tension element that extends in a second direction from a lower portion of the connection mechanism. 14. The transmission of claim 13, wherein the first direction is offset from the second direction by a predetermined angle. 15. The transmission of claim 1, wherein the connection mechanism is recessed below a face of the driven member. 16. The transmission of claim 1, wherein the driven member includes at least one of a recess configured to at least partially contain the connection mechanism and a recess configured to receive a portion of the flexible transmission. 17. The transmission of claim 1, wherein the driven member includes a channel configured to enable a user to adjust the connection mechanism to vary the tension force applied to the flexible transmission. 18. The transmission of claim 1, wherein the driven member includes a first component and a second component coupled to the first component. 19. The transmission of claim 18, wherein the first and second components enclose the connection mechanism, and wherein the connection mechanism is configured to be adjustable without decoupling the first and second components. 