The present invention is directed to a tool having a wrist mechanism that provides pitch and yaw rotation in such a way that the tool has no singularity in roll, pitch, and yaw. In one embodiment, a minimally invasive surgical instrument includes an elongate shaft having a working end, a proximal end, a shaft axis between the working end and the proximal end, and an end effector. A wrist member has a flexible tube including an axis extending through an interior surrounded by a wall. The wall of the flexible tube includes a plurality of lumens oriented generally parallel to the axis of the flexible tube. The wrist member has a proximal portion connected to the working end of the elongate shaft and a distal portion connected to the end effector.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A minimally invasive surgical instrument comprising: an elongate shaft having a working end, a proximal end, and a shaft axis between the working end and the proximal end; an end effector; a wrist member having an inner spring which includes a proximal portion connected to the working end of the elongate shaft and a distal portion connected to the end effector, the wrist member having a plurality of annular disks distributed along an axis of the inner spring, the annular disks each having an inside edge connected with the inner spring; and a plurality of actuation cables extending from the distal portion of the wrist member through the wrist member toward the elongate shaft to proximal portions which are actuatable to bend the wrist member in pitch rotation and yaw rotation; wherein the disks include a plurality of holes through which the actuation cables extend. 2. The instrument of claim 1 wherein adjacent disks are oriented with the inner tabs of one disk disposed about 90 degrees apart from the inner tabs of the adjacent disk. 3. The instrument of claim 1 wherein the disks each include an outer mating surface and an inner mating surface for mating between adjacent disks, the outer mating surface of one disk mating with the inner mating surface of the adjacent disk. 4. The instrument of claim 3 wherein the outer mating surface and the inner mating surface are generally spherical in shape. 5. The instrument of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of elastomer members each disposed between and connected with adjacent disks. 6. The instrument of claim 1 further comprising a wrist cover disposed outside of the inner spring and the annular disks. 7. The instrument of claim 6 wherein the wrist cover comprises a flat spiral of non-conductive material. 8. The instrument of claim 7 wherein the flat spiral includes curled edges which overlap between adjacent layers of the spiral. 9. The instrument of claim 7 wherein the flat spiral includes grooves oriented generally parallel to the axis of the inner spring. 10. A minimally invasive surgical instrument comprising: an elongate shaft having a working end, a proximal end, and a shaft axis between the working end and the proximal end; an end effector; a wrist member having an inner spring which includes a proximal portion connected to the working end of the elongate shaft and a distal portion connected to the end effector, the wrist member having a plurality of annular disks distributed along an axis of the inner spring, the annular disks each having an inside edge connected with the inner spring; and a plurality of actuation cables extending from the distal portion of the wrist member through the wrist member toward the elongate shaft to proximal portions which are actuatable to bend the wrist member in pitch rotation and yaw rotation; wherein the disks each include a pair of inner tabs disposed opposite from one another and extending from the inside edge into a gap between coils of the inner spring. 11. An apparatus comprising: an elongate shaft having a working end, a proximal end, and a shaft axis between the working end and the proximal end; an end effector; a flexible wrist member comprising annular disk means, the flexible wrist member coupling the end effector to the working end of the elongate shaft; and a plurality of actuation cables extending from a distal portion of the flexible wrist member through the flexible wrist member toward the elongate shaft to proximal portions which are actuatable to bend the flexible wrist member in pitch rotation and yaw rotation; wherein the disks include a plurality of holes through which the actuation cables extend. 