A system for applying a thin coat of a material on one side only of a substrate is disclosed together with a process for applying the thin coat. Coatings of less than one thousand angstroms are attainable on a single surface of the substrate by controlling the speed at which a meniscus of a mix containing a predetermined concentration of the coating material travels across the single surface being coated. Various pressure, temperature and humidity controls are implemented in the process and by the apparatus as needed to obtain the desired coating characteristics.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for applying a coating of a substance to a substrate, wherein a predetermined concentration of the substance is mixed with a solvent to formulate a solvent bath, and wherein the coating substantially is applied to one substantially planar side only on the substrate, comprising: means for containing the solvent bath so that a bath surface on the solvent bath is substantially flat and free of disturbance, means for positioning the one substantially planar side only in contact with said bath surface, means for tilting the one substantially planar side to assume a predetermined angle with respect to said bath surface, while remaining in contact therewith, wherein the means for tilting is adapted so that only a single meniscus is formed between the one substantially planar side and said bath surface, and means for separating the one substantially planar side from said bath surface; wherein the single meniscus travels across the one substantially planar side at a predetermined speed. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for transporting the substrate, and wherein said means for positioning comprises means for receiving the substrate from said means for transporting. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the substrate is obtained from a supply of substrates and is delivered to a collection of coated substrates, wherein said means for transporting, comprises: means for delivering a number of substrates serially from the supply of substrates to the solvent bath, and means for serially removing said number of substrates from the solvent bath to the collection of coated substrates. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said meniscus has a drying end and a wet end, and wherein the one substantially planar side has a wetted dimension thereon trailing said drying end, said means for separating controls said predetermined speed, whereby said wetted dimension remains substantially constant. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said means for separating is controlled responsive to ambient temperature. 6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said means for separating is controlled responsive to ambient pressure. 7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein said means for separating is controlled responsive to ambient humidity. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein temperature of the one substantially planar side is controlled. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for enclosing said means for containing and means for separating, whereby a controlled surrounding atmosphere is placed adjacent the one substantially planar side. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein a predetermined pressure is maintained within said means for enclosing, wherein a predetermined temperature is maintained within said means for enclosing, and wherein a predetermined humidity is maintained within said means for enclosing. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said predetermined speed corresponds to solvent evaporation rate, wherein the evaporation rate of the solvent is controlled. 12. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising an enclosure surrounding said means for containing and means for positioning, wherein temperature and pressure are controlled within said enclosure. 13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein temperature of the solvent bath is controlled, and wherein humidity within said enclosure is controlled. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one substantially planar side of the substrate has a predetermined shape, said meniscus having a length corresponding to successive meniscus positions during travel across the one substantially planar side, wherein said predetermined speed is controlled responsive to said meniscus length at said successive positions. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a solvent bath reservoir, conduit means for directing solvent bath from said means for containing to said solvent bath reservoir; a pump for urging solvent bath along a path from said solvent bath reservoir to said means for containing, and filter means disposed in said path between said pump and said means for containing. 16. The apparatus as in claim 14, wherein thickness of the coating is controlled as a function of said predetermined speed. 17. Apparatus for applying a coating of a substance substantially to one substantially planar side only of a substrate, wherein the substance is mixed in predetermined concentration with a solvent in a solvent bath having a bath surface that is substantially flat and undisturbed, comprising: a bath container, means for positioning the one substantially planar side only of the substrate in contact with the bath surface, said means for positioning operating to orient the one substantially planar side only at a predetermined angle relative to the bath surface, wherein only a single meniscus is formed between the one substantially planar side and said bath surface, and means for separating the one substantially planar side only from the bath surface, wherein said means for separating controls a speed of traversal of said meniscus across the one substantially planar side only corresponding to an evaporation rate of the solvent. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said meniscus has a length, a wet side adjacent the bath surface, and a drying side adjacent the one substantially planar side only together with a wetted dimension on the one substantially planar side only trailing said drying side, wherein said speed of traversal is controlled to provide for said wetted dimension to remain substantially constant. 19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said meniscus has a length, a wet side adjacent the bath surface, and a drying side adjacent the one substantially planar side only together with a wetted dimension on the one substantially planar side only trailing said drying side, wherein said speed of traversal is controlled to provide for said wetted dimension to remain substantially zero. 20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein said meniscus has a length, a wet side adjacent the bath surface, and a drying side adjacent the one substantially planar side only together with a wetted dimension on the one substantially planar side only trailing said drying side, wherein said speed of traversal is controlled to provide predetermined change in said wetted dimension, whereby predetermined variation in thickness of the coating is attained on the one substantially planar side only. 21. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein temperature of the solvent bath is controlled. 22. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein temperature of the substrate is controlled. 23. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising an enclosure surrounding said bath container and said means for positioning, wherein temperature is controlled within said enclosure. 24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein humidity is controlled within said enclosure. 25. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising: a reservoir, conduit means communicating said bath container and said reservoir, a pump connected in said conduit means, and a filter disposed between said pump and said bath container, whereby filtered solvent bath is provided for each successive substantially planar side and solvent bath is preserved. 26. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the one substantially planar side has a predetermined shape, wherein said speed of traversal is controlled corresponding to the predetermined shape, wherein said speed of traversal provides a predetermined thickness of the coating. 27. Apparatus for applying coatings less than about one thousand angstroms thick on one side only of a substrate having an area for coating defined by continuous substrate edges, wherein the coating substance is carried in a solvent, wherein a predetermined concentration of coating substance is provided in a solvent mix, comprising: a solvent mix container for holding a quantity of solvent mix, so that the solvent mix has a free surface that is substantially flat and undisturbed, means for positioning the one side only in contact with the free surface at an angle thereto, wherein the means for positioning is adapted so as to form only a single meniscus adjacent one of the continuous substrate edges, and means for separating the one side only and the free surface to provide a meniscus speed of traversal across the one side only corresponding to the evaporation rate of the solvent, wherein the means for separating is adapted so that the one side only is substantially free of solvent immediately following passage of the meniscus. 28. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising an enclosure surrounding said solvent mix container and said means for positioning, wherein humidity is controlled within said enclosure. 29. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising an enclosure surrounding said solvent mix container and said means for positioning, wherein temperature is controlled within said enclosure. 30. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising an enclosure surrounding said solvent mix container and said means for containing, wherein pressure is controlled within said enclosure. 31. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein temperature of the solvent mix is controlled. 32. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein temperature of the substrate is controlled. 33. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising: a reservoir, conduit means extending between said solvent mix container and said reservoir, a pump disposed in said conduit means, and a filter disposed in said conduit means. 34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein said means for separating comprises: a drain disposed between said solvent mix container and said reservoir. 35. The apparatus of claim 33, further comprising: an enclosure surrounding said solvent mix container and said means for positioning, wherein ambient temperature, pressure and humidity are controlled within said enclosure. 36. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein temperature of the solvent mix and temperature of the substrate are controlled. 