A bevel inspection module for capturing images of a substrate is provided. The module includes a rotational motor, which is attached to a substrate chuck and is configured to rotate the substrate chuck thereby allowing the substrate to revolve. The module further includes a camera and an optic enclosure, which is attached to the camera and is configured to rotate, enabling light to be directed toward the substrate. The camera is mounted from a camera mount, which is configured to enable the camera to rotate on a 180 degree plane allowing the camera to capture images of at least one of a top view, a bottom view, and a side view of the substrate. The module yet also includes a backlight arrangement, which is configured to provide illumination to the substrate, thereby enabling the camera to capture the images, which shows contrast between the substrate and a background.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A bevel inspection module for capturing images of a substrate, comprising: a substrate chuck for supporting said substrate; a rotational motor, said substrate chuck being attached to said rotational motor, said rotational motor being configured to rotate said substrate chuck thereby allowing said substrate to revolve; a camera; an optics enclosure, said optics enclosure being attached to said camera, said optic enclosure being configured to rotate, enabling light to be directed toward said substrate; a camera mount, said camera being installed onto said camera mount, said camera mount being configured to enable said camera to rotate on a 180 degree plane allowing said camera to capture said images, said images including at least one of a top view, a bottom view, and a side view of said substrate; and a backlight arrangement, said backlight arrangement being configured to provide illumination to said substrate, thereby enabling said camera to capture said images, said images showing contrast between said substrate and a background. 2. The bevel inspection module of claim 1 further including an enclosure, said enclosure enabling said bevel inspection module to be attached to a plasma processing system. 3. The bevel inspection module of claim 1 further including notch and wafer edge sensors, said notch and wafer edge sensors being configured to identify, said substrate and a substrate notch. 4. The bevel inspection module of claim 1 further including a vacuum sensor and switch, said vacuum sensor and switch being configured to prevent said substrate from being extracted while said substrate is being inspected. 5. The bevel inspection module of claim 1 wherein said camera mount is configured to be adjustable, thereby enabling said camera mount to be adjusted to account for the size of said substrate. 6. The bevel inspection module of claim 1 wherein said camera is configured to be adjustable in at least one of a vertical direction, a lateral direction, and a rotational direction, thereby enabling said camera to be adjusted to capture said images, said images including said at least one of said top view, said bottom view, and said side view of said substrate. 7. The bevel inspection module of claim 1 wherein said images captured by said camera differentiate edges of said substrate from said background. 8. The bevel inspection module of claim 7 wherein a set of measurement data from said images is extrapolated to identify defects in said substrate. 9. The bevel inspection module of claim 7 wherein a set of measurement data extrapolated from said images is employed to create a film thickness profile. 10. The bevel inspection module of claim 7 wherein a set of measurement data extrapolated from said images is used to identify misalignment. 11. The bevel inspection module of claim 10 wherein said set of measurement data is employed to identify a process center for a chuck of a processing chamber. 12. A method for calculating a process center of a chuck in a processing chamber, comprising: capturing images of edges of a processed substrate by employing a bevel inspection module; measuring a set of distances from said edges of said processed substrate for an interference fringe, said set of distances being measured at a set of orientations; generating an off-centered plot, said off-centered plot being a graphical representation of said set of distances versus said set of orientations; and calculating said process center by applying a curve-fitting equation to said off-centered plot. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising: selecting said off-centered plot from a set of off-centered plots; and generating said set of off-centered plots for a set of interference fringes. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising generating a sinusoidal curve as said off-centered plot. 15. The method of claim 12 further comprising using a Fourier Series Equation from Fourier Transform as said curve-fitting equation. 16. The method of claim 12 further comprising using a Least Square Fit on a sinusoid equation as said curve-fitting equation. 17. The method of claim 12 further comprising teaching a robot arm of said processing system the coordinates of said process center. 18. The method of claim 12 further comprising including a refractive film layer in said processed substrate. 19. The method of claim 12 further comprising: including a camera in said bevel inspection module; attaching said camera to a camera mount; configuring said camera mount to enable said camera to rotate on a 180 degree plane, allowing said camera to capture said images of said processed substrate; attaching an optics enclosure to said camera; configuring said optic enclosure to rotate for enabling light to be directed toward said processed substrate; attaching a substrate chuck to a rotational motor, thereby enabling said processed substrate to revolve, enabling said camera to capture said images of said edges of said processed substrate; and using a backlight arrangement to provide illumination to said substrate, thereby enabling said camera to capture said images, said images showing contrast between said processed substrate and a background. 20. An image processing method for determining a process center for a chuck in a processing chamber, comprising: capturing images of a processed substrate by employing a bevel inspection module; filtering said images to remove noises from said images and to accentuate edges of said processed substrate; measuring a set of gaps from said edges of said processed substrate for an interference fringe, said set of gaps being measured at a set of orientations; generating an off-centered plot, said off-centered plot being a graphical representation of said set of gaps versus said set of orientations; and calculating said process center by applying a curve-fitting equation to said off-centered plot. 21. The method of claim 20 further comprising converting said images into grayscale images. 22. The method of claim 20 further comprising using a smooth and canny technique in said filtering. 23. The method of claim 20 further comprising using a threshold technique in said filtering. 24. The method of claim 20 further comprising generating a sinusoidal curve as said off-centered plot. 25. The method of claim 20 further comprising using a Fourier Series Equation from Fourier Transform as said curve-fitting equation. 26. The method of claim 20 further comprising using a Least Square Fit on a sinusoid equation as said curve-fitting equation. 27. The method of claim 20 further comprising teaching a robot arm of said processing system the coordinates of said process center. 28. The method of claim 20 further comprising including a refractive film layer in said processed substrate. 29. The method of claim 20 further comprising: selecting said off-centered plot from a set of off-centered plots; and generating said set of off-centered plots for a set of interference fringes. 30. The method of claim 20 further comprising: including a camera in said bevel inspection module; attaching said camera to a camera mount; configuring said camera mount to enable said camera to rotate on a 180 degree plane, allowing said camera to capture said images of said processed substrate; attaching an optics enclosure to said camera; configuring said optic enclosure to rotate for enabling light to be directed toward said processed substrate; attaching a substrate chuck to a rotational motor, thereby enabling said processed substrate to revolve, enabling said camera to capture said images of said edges of said processed substrate; and using a backlight arrangement to provide illumination to said substrate, thereby enabling said camera to capture said images, said images showing contrast between said processed substrate and a background. 