An architecture for robot intelligence enables a robot to learn new behaviors and create new behavior sequences autonomously and interact with a dynamically changing environment. Sensory information is mapped onto a Sensory Ego-Sphere (SES) that rapidly identifies important changes in the environment and functions much like short term memory. Behaviors are stored in a DBAM that creates an active map from the robot's current state to a goal state and functions much like long term memory. A dream state converts recent activities stored in the SES and creates or modifies behaviors in the DBAM.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for processing signals received from a plurality of sensors and for producing signals to at least one actuator, said system comprising: a plurality of processors for processing sensor signals received from the sensors and producing output signals; a sensory database comprising a plurality of records, each record comprising an output signal received from at least one of the plurality of processors; a behavior database comprising a plurality of records, each record representing a behavior to be performed by an actuator; a first agent for identifying a most active portion of the sensory database; and a second agent for selecting a behavior from the behavior database and communicating it to an actuator, the selection based, in part, on identification of the most active portion of the sensory database. 2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a sensory agent for storing output signals into locations in the sensory database in accordance with the orientation of the sensors from which the signals derive. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the sensory agent stores in the sensory database a datum representing a time stamp associated with the output signal. 4. The system of claim 3 further comprising a coincidence agent for detecting temporal coincidence of a first sensor signal and a second sensor signal when the first sensor signal time stamp does not equal the second sensor time stamp. 