Products and processes for providing haptic feedback are described. One such product includes a rocker switch and an actuator in communication with the rocker switch. The rocker switch is operable to output a first signal. The actuator is operable to provide haptic feedback associated with the first signal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a rocker switch operable to output a first signal to a processor operable to associate a value with a setting of the rocker switch in a first mode and to control a rate of change of the value in a second mode; an actuator in communication with the rocker switch, the actuator operable to receive from the processor a second signal associated with the first signal and provide haptic feedback associated with the second signal; and a biasing element comprising a first end and a second end, the first end in communication with the rocker switch and the second end in communication with the actuator, the biasing element configured to amplify haptic feedback provided by the actuator. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the actuator comprises a processor-controlled electro-mechanical actuator. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the actuator is selected from the group consisting of voice coil actuators, piezo-electric actuators, electro-active polymer actuators, eccentric mass actuators, moving magnet actuators, and resistive actuators. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a compliant member disposed proximate to the rocker switch. 5. An apparatus comprising: a switch operable to output a first signal, the switch comprising a first contact, a second contact, and a contact assembly operable to communicate with the first contact and the second contact; a processor operable to associate a value with a setting of the switch in a first mode and to control a rate of change of the value in a second mode; an actuator in communication with the contact assembly, the actuator operable to provide a processor-controlled force to the contact assembly; and a biasing element comprising a first end and a second end, the first end in communication with the switch and the second end in communication with the actuator, the biasing element configured to amplify the processor-controlled force. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a processor operable to receive the first signal and to communicate a second signal to the actuator, the second signal associated with the first signal. 7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the actuator comprises a processor-controlled electro-mechanical actuator. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the actuator is selected from the group consisting of voice coil actuators, piezo-electric actuators, electro-active polymer actuators, eccentric mass actuators, moving magnet actuators, and resistive actuators. 9. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising a first compliant member disposed proximate the first contact and a second compliant member disposed proximate the second contact. 10. The apparatus of claim 5, further comprising the contact assembly operable to be displaced upon receiving the processor-controlled force. 11. A method comprising: providing a rocker switch operable to output a first signal to a processor operable to associate a value with a setting of the rocker switch in a first mode and to control a rate of change of the value in a second mode; disposing an actuator in communication with the rocker switch, the actuator operable to receive from the processor a second signal associated with the first signal and provide haptic feedback associated with the second signal; and providing a biasing element comprising a first end and a second end, the first end in communication with the rocker switch and the second end in communication with the actuator, the biasing element configured to amplify haptic feedback provided by the actuator. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the actuator comprises a processor-controlled electro-mechanical actuator. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the actuator is selected from the group consisting of voice coil actuators, piezo-electric actuators, electro-active polymer actuators, eccentric mass actuators, moving magnet actuators, and resistive actuators. 14. The method of claim 11, further comprising disposing a compliant member proximate the switch. 15. A method comprising: providing a switch operable to output a first signal, the switch comprising a first contact, a second contact, and a contact assembly operable to communicate with the first contact and the second contact; providing a processor operable to associate a value with a setting of the switch in a first mode and to control a rate of change of the value in a second mode; disposing an actuator in communication with the contact assembly, the actuator operable to provide a processor-controlled force to the contact assembly, the processor-controlled force displacing the contact assembly; and providing a biasing element comprising a first end and a second end, the first end in communication with the switch and the second end in communication with the actuator, the biasing element configured to amplify the processor-controlled force. 16. The method of claim 15, further comprising providing a processor operable to receive the first signal and to communicate a second signal to the actuator, the second signal associated with the first signal. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the actuator comprises a processor-controlled electro-mechanical actuator. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the actuator is selected from the group consisting of voice coil actuators, piezo-electric actuators, electro-active polymer actuators, eccentric mass actuators, moving magnet actuators, and resistive actuators. 19. The method of claim 15, further comprising: disposing a first compliant member proximate the first contact; and disposing a second compliant member proximate the second contact. 