A method of monitoring contact tip useful life in a welding torch includes measuring at least one of welding current (I) and welding voltage (V) of the contact tip mounted in the welding torch. Deterioration of the contact tip is quantified based on one or both of (i) a decrease of the welding current and increase of a standard deviation of the welding current (sd_I), and (ii) an increase of the welding voltage. Deterioration of the contact tip may be quantified by calculating an index of contact tip life (ITL) based on the welding current and standard deviation of the welding current and/or by calculating a reference index of contact tip life (ITL_v) based on the welding voltage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of monitoring contact tip useful life in a welding torch, said method comprising the steps of: measuring at least one of welding current (I) and welding voltage (V) of the contact tip mounted in the welding torch; and quantifying deterioration of the contact tip based on a decrease of the welding current and increase of a standard deviation of the welding current (sd_I). 2. The method of claim 1, including the step of: averaging the welding current and welding voltage measured over a period of time to obtain a single welding current value and a single welding voltage value for the period of time. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the period of time corresponds to one weld. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurements are taken while performing a chosen representative weld on a workpiece. 5. The method of claim 1, including the step of: removing noise and known error from the measured welding current and welding voltage during at least one of an arc start and an arc stop (crater). 6. The method of claim 1, further including the steps of: obtaining starting parameters including an initial welding current (I.sub.0) and a standard deviation of the welding current (sd_I.sub.0) over an initial period of time; quantifying deterioration of the contact tip by calculating an index of contact tip life (ITL) from the following Equation 1 which is a function of the welding current and the standard deviation of the welding current: .times. ##EQU00005## wherein a is a constant factor of current decay and b is a constant factor of the sd_I increase; and sending the calculated ITL to one of a human operator and an automated controller. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein an index of contact tip life (ITL) is calculated as a function of at least one of the welding current (I) and the standard deviation of the welding current (sd_I), and the ITL decreases from full scale towards 0 as the welding current decreases and/or the standard deviation of the welding current increases in certain ranges. 8. The method of claim 6, wherein an ITL value less than or equal to a threshold value indicates that the contact tip is reaching the end of its useful life. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the threshold value is between 0 and 0.30. 10. The method of claim 8, including the step of: when the ITL reaches the threshold value, performing one or more of: sounding an alarm, displaying a warning message, scheduling a contact tip change, and triggering an automatic contact tip change. 11. The method of claim 6, including the step of: adjusting at least one of the constant factors a and b if welding quality is acceptable when the ITL reaches a threshold value or if welding quality is unacceptable before the ITL reaches the threshold value. 12. The method of claim 6, wherein an average of a plurality of calculated ITL values are sent to the human operator or the automated controller. 