A variety of embodiments are disclosed, in both apparatus and method form, that relate to the use of fabric material in the manufacture of an air bag deployment system. In addition, fabric weakening is disclosed according to a technique that does not result in physical alteration of the fabric. This invention therefore includes an air bag cover for an air bag safety system for a vehicle comprising a fabric outer layer having a frontside and a backside and a substrate containing an opening wherein the opening has a periphery. The substrate is preferably formed by low pressure molding, wherein the fabric outer layer overlies the opening in the substrate, and wherein the fabric outer layer is weakened at a location that is adjacent or overlies the substrate opening periphery.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An air bag cover for an air bag safety system for a vehicle comprising: a fabric outer layer having a front side and a backside, a substrate containing an opening, said opening closed by an airbag door, said door having a periphery at least a portion of which comprises a door/substrate tear seam and a hinge region, the substrate formed by low pressure molding at a clamp pressure of less than or equal to about 1000 psi., wherein the fabric outer layer overlies the opening in the substrate, and wherein the fabric outer layer is weakened by partially cutting into the backside of said fabric outer layer at a location a portion of which is located outboard of said door/substrate tear seam, and wherein said fabric outer layer is selectively strengthened by incorporating fibers or yarn of greater strength in a pattern and in a discrete area to form the strengthened area in the region of the air bag door hinge region to provide a tether for said airbag door. 2. The air bag cover of claim 1, wherein said door is formed integrally with said substrate, said door having an outer edge. 3. The air bag cover of claim 1, wherein the fabric outer layer includes a backing layer positioned between said fabric outer layer and said substrate. 4. The air bag cover of claim 3 wherein said weakening of said fabric outer layer including said backing layer is provided by cutting with a laser or knife. 5. The air bag cover of claim 3, wherein at least one of said fabric outer layer, said backing layer or said substrate are weakened by the application of a knife or a laser and at least partially cutting through any one of said fabric outer layer, said backing layer or said substrate. 6. The air bag cover of claim 1 wherein the fabric outer layer is weakened in a pattern that lies just outside of the opening in the substrate that is closed by the door. 7. The air bag cover of claim 1 wherein said low pressure molding comprises one of sequential injection molding, reaction injection molding, injection-compression molding, gas assist injection molding, structural foam molding, gas counter-pressure injection molding, and extrusion molding. 