Miniature robotic vehicles suitable for a variety of tasks including covert surveillance, reconnaissance, and recreation are provided. Embodiments of the invention may include vehicles having a hybrid transportation system that incorporates a rotary-wing flight mode in conjunction with a wheeled ground transport mode. As a result, exemplary vehicles provide efficient ground-mode travel, with the added ability to fly over large obstacles and rough terrain.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic vehicle, comprising: a body; two wheels attached to the body, the wheels selectively rotatable, relative to the body, to propel the vehicle over a reference surface; a rotor head assembly attached to the body, the rotor head assembly selectively rotatable relative to the body about a rotor axis that is coaxial with a wheel axis about which each of the two wheels is configured to selectively rotate; and a transforming mechanism attached to the body and comprising two or more members operable to selectively contact the reference surface and reposition the body between: a ground mode, wherein the two wheels contact the reference surface; and a flight mode, wherein one or both of the two wheels are elevated above the reference surface. 2. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the wheel axis is parallel to the reference surface when the vehicle is in the ground mode, and intersects the reference surface when the vehicle is in flight mode. 3. The vehicle of claim 2, wherein the wheel axis, when the vehicle is in the flight mode, is generally orthogonal to the wheel axis when the vehicle is in the ground mode. 4. The vehicle of claim 1, further comprising a rotor sub-chassis supporting the rotor head assembly, the sub-chassis movable relative to the body between a first position corresponding to the vehicle being in the ground mode, and a second position corresponding to the vehicle being in the flight mode. 5. The vehicle of claim 4, further comprising one or more springs operable to assist with moving the rotor sub-chassis between the first and second positions. 6. The vehicle of claim 1, further comprising a tail assembly extending outwardly from the body, wherein a distal end of the tail assembly comprises a tail rotor head assembly. 7. The vehicle of claim 6, wherein the tail assembly comprises two or more boom sections pivotally attached to one another, the two or more boom sections displaceable relative to one another by the transforming mechanism. 8. A robotic vehicle, comprising: an elongate body having a first end, an opposite second end, and a longitudinal axis extending therebetween; a powered, ground engaging wheel attached at or near each of the first and second ends of the body, the wheels selectively rotatable about the longitudinal axis of the body; a powered, main rotor head assembly attached to the body at or near the second end and selectively rotatable about the longitudinal axis of the body, the main rotor head assembly comprising at least one collapsible main rotor blade; and a transforming mechanism operable to reposition the vehicle between: a ground mode, wherein the longitudinal axis is parallel to a reference surface upon which the wheels rest; and a flight mode, wherein the longitudinal axis intersects the reference surface. 9. The vehicle of claim 8, further comprising a tail assembly, the tail assembly extending away from the body and comprising a tail rotor head assembly having one or more tail rotor blades. 10. The vehicle of claim 9, wherein the transforming mechanism is operatively coupled to the tail assembly and configured to reposition the tail assembly as the vehicle moves between the ground and flight modes. 11. The vehicle of claim 9, further comprising a rotor motor operatively attached to the body, the rotor motor coupled to both the main rotor head assembly and the tail rotor head assembly. 12. The vehicle of claim 9, wherein the tail assembly comprises: a first boom section comprising a first end pivotally attached to the body; and a second boom section comprising: a first end pivotally attached to a second end of the first boom section; and a second end supporting the tail rotor head assembly. 13. The vehicle of claim 8, wherein the collapsible main rotor blade extends along the body when the vehicle is in the ground mode, and extends away from the body when the vehicle is in the flight mode. 14. The vehicle of claim 8, wherein the transforming mechanism comprises two or more legs pivotally attached to the body at or near the first end. 15. The vehicle of claim 8, wherein the main rotor head assembly is attached to a rotor sub-chassis operable to move along the longitudinal axis of the body when the vehicle repositions between the ground mode and the flight mode. 16. The vehicle of claim 8, wherein the main rotor head assembly comprises a biasing member to bias the main rotor blade to a deployed position when the vehicle is in the flight mode. 17. The vehicle of claim 8, wherein the main rotor head assembly comprises a first camming surface and the body of the vehicle comprises a second camming surface that both contact one another to move the main rotor blade to a stowed position when the vehicle is transformed from the flight mode to the ground mode. 18. The vehicle of claim 8, wherein the transforming mechanism comprises a linear actuator having a rod displaceable in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of the body. 19. The vehicle of claim 8, further comprising a lift rotor locking member configured to selectively engage and rotationally immobilize a rotor drive shaft extending between the main rotor head assembly and a rotor motor. 20. A method of switching transport modes of a robotic vehicle, the method comprising: providing a vehicle comprising: an elongate body defining a longitudinal axis; two wheels each rotatably coupled to the body and each configured to rotate about the longitudinal axis; motors connected to the body, the motors operable to independently power the two wheels when the vehicle is in a ground mode; and a main rotor head assembly coupled to the body and configured to rotate about the longitudinal axis; and contacting a reference surface upon which the vehicle rests with legs of a transforming mechanism attached to the vehicle to reposition the vehicle from: the ground mode, wherein the two wheels are in contact with the reference surface; to a flight mode, wherein one or both of the two wheels are elevated above the reference surface. 21. The method of claim 20, further comprising energizing a rotor motor to rotate the main rotor head assembly. 