A method of manufacturing a thermoelectric module is provided. The method includes mounting a thermoelectric material to a substrate such that a portion of the thermoelectric material covers a removable pattern. The thermoelectric material is then segmented and the removable pattern is removed. The portions of the thermoelectric material which were covering the removable pattern are also removed, leaving the portions of the thermoelectric material not covering the removable pattern attached to the substrate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of manufacturing an array of thermoelectric elements, comprising: mounting a thermoelectric material to a temporary substrate wherein at least a portion of the thermoelectric material covers a removable pattern; segmenting the thermoelectric material; and removing the removable pattern and the portions of the thermoelectric material covering the removable pattern and leaving the portions of the thermoelectric material not covering the removable pattern attached to the temporary substrate. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the removable pattern is applied to the temporary substrate by a method selected from the group consisting of printing, brushing, and spraying. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the removable pattern is a water soluble material. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the removable pattern is a solvent soluble material. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the removable pattern is a checkered pattern of squares or rectangles. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the thermoelectric material is segmented by dicing the thermoelectric material while it is mounted to the temporary substrate. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the temporary substrate includes guide marks not covered by the thermoelectric material; and wherein the guide marks indicate the edges of the removable pattern and where to cut the thermoelectric material. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the thermoelectric material is mounted to the temporary substrate using an epoxy; and wherein the removable pattern may be removed by a solvent which does not remove the epoxy. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising transferring the thermoelectric material from the temporary substrate to a permanent substrate after removing the removable pattern. 10. The method of claim 1, further comprising transferring the thermoelectric material from the temporary substrate to a plurality of permanent substrates after removing the removable pattern; and wherein the removable pattern comprises a plurality of removable patterns. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the temporary substrate includes a checkered pattern of raised blocks; and wherein the removable pattern includes a plate with a checkered pattern of holes cut from it, the checkered pattern of holes corresponding to the checkered pattern of raised blocks on the temporary substrate. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising coupling the removable pattern to the temporary substrate by inserting the checkered pattern of raised blocks into the checkered pattern of holes; and wherein after coupling the temporary substrate to the removable pattern the tops of the raised blocks are substantially flush with the top of the plate such that the a substantially flat surface is provided for mounting the thermoelectric material. 13. A method of manufacturing an array of thermoelectric elements, comprising: mounting a thermoelectric material to a temporary substrate; segmenting the thermoelectric material into blocks; and removing alternating blocks of the thermoelectric material using a removable pattern thereby leaving a pattern of the thermoelectric material on the temporary substrate. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein removing alternating blocks includes removing the removable pattern from the temporary substrate. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the removable pattern is applied to the temporary substrate by a method selected from the group consisting of printing, brushing, and spraying. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the removable pattern is a water soluble material. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the removable pattern is a solvent soluble material. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the removable pattern is a checkered pattern of squares or rectangles. 19. The method of claim 14, wherein the temporary substrate includes guide marks not covered by the thermoelectric material; and wherein the guide marks indicate the edges of the removable pattern and where to cut the thermoelectric material. 20. The method of claim 14, wherein the thermoelectric material is mounted to the temporary substrate using an epoxy; and wherein the removable pattern may be removed by a solvent which does not remove the epoxy. 21. The method of claim 14, further comprising transferring the material from the temporary substrate to a permanent substrate after removing the removable pattern. 22. The method of claim 14, further comprising transferring the thermoelectric material from the temporary substrate to a plurality of permanent substrates after removing the removable pattern; and wherein the removable pattern comprises a plurality of removable patterns. 23. The method of claim 14, wherein the temporary substrate includes a pattern of raised blocks; and wherein the removable pattern includes a plate with a pattern of holes cut from it, the pattern of holes corresponding to the pattern of raised blocks on the temporary substrate. 24. The method of claim 23, further comprising coupling the temporary substrate to the removable pattern by inserting the pattern of raised blocks into the pattern of holes; and wherein after coupling the temporary substrate to the removable pattern the tops of the raised blocks are substantially flush with the top of the plate such that the a substantially flat surface is provided for mounting the material. 25. A method of manufacturing a thermoelectric module, comprising: mounting a first thermoelectric material to a first temporary substrate; mounting a second thermoelectric material to a second temporary substrate; segmenting the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material into blocks; removing alternating blocks of the thermoelectric material using a first removable pattern thereby leaving a pattern of the first thermoelectric material and blank spaces on the first temporary substrate; removing alternating blocks of the second thermoelectric material using a second removable pattern thereby leaving a pattern of the second thermoelectric material and blank spaces on the second temporary substrate; and forming a pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material. 26. The method of claim 25, wherein the first and second thermoelectric materials are segmented by dicing the first and second thermoelectric materials while they are mounted to the first and second temporary substrates. 27. The method of claim 25, wherein removing alternating blocks of the first thermoelectric material includes removing the first removable pattern from the first temporary substrate; and wherein removing alternating blocks of the second thermoelectric material includes removing the second removable pattern from the second temporary substrate. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein the first and second removable patterns are water soluble. 29. The method of claim 27, wherein the first and second removable patterns are solvent soluble material. 30. The method of claim 27, wherein the first and second removable patterns are applied to the first and second temporary substrates by a method selected from the group consisting of printing, brushing, and spraying. 31. The method of claim 27, further comprising: transferring the first thermoelectric material from the first temporary substrate to a first permanent substrate after removing the first removable pattern; transferring the second thermoelectric material from the second temporary substrate to a second permanent substrate after removing the second removable pattern; and wherein the pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material is formed by inverting the first permanent substrate and placing it on top of the second permanent substrate. 32. The method of claim 27, wherein the first temporary substrate includes a pattern of raised blocks; wherein the first removable pattern includes a plate with a pattern of holes cut from it, the pattern of holes corresponding to the pattern of raised blocks on the first temporary substrate; wherein the second temporary substrate includes a pattern of raised blocks; and wherein the second removable pattern includes a plate with a pattern of holes cut from it, the pattern of holes corresponding to the pattern of raised blocks on the second temporary substrate. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein forming a pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material includes removing the first removable pattern from the first temporary substrate, removing the second removable pattern from the second temporary substrate, and coupling the first removable pattern to the second temporary substrate. 34. The method of claim 33, further comprising forming a second pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material by coupling the second removable pattern to the first temporary substrate. 35. The method of claim 26, wherein the first and second temporary substrates include guide marks not covered by the first and second thermoelectric materials; and wherein the guide marks indicate the edges of the first and second removable patterns and where to cut the first and second thermoelectric materials. 36. The method of claim 26, wherein the first and second thermoelectric materials are mounted to the first and second temporary substrates using epoxy; and wherein the first and second removable patterns may be removed by a solvent which does not remove the epoxy. 37. A method of manufacturing a thermoelectric module, comprising: mounting a first thermoelectric material to a first temporary substrate, wherein the first temporary substrate includes a first top and a first bottom; mounting a second thermoelectric material to a second temporary substrate, wherein the second temporary substrate includes a second top and a second bottom; cutting the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material into blocks; removing alternating blocks of the first thermoelectric material by removing the first top, and wherein after removing the first top a checkered pattern of the first thermoelectric material and blank spaces are left on the first bottom; removing alternating blocks of the second thermoelectric material by removing the second top, and wherein after removing the second top a checkered pattern of the second thermoelectric material and blank spaces are left on the second bottom; forming a first checkered pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material by placing the first top on the second bottom; coupling the first checkered pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material to a first upper permanent substrate; removing the first top and the second bottom from the first checkered pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material; coupling a first lower permanent substrate to the first checkered pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material; forming a second checkered pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material by placing the second top on the first bottom; coupling the second checkered pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material to a second lower permanent substrate; removing the second top and the first bottom from the second checkered pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material; and coupling a second upper permanent substrate to the second checkered pattern of the first thermoelectric material and the second thermoelectric material. 