An apparatus and method of producing plastic articles comprising preheating a metal mold having a mold contour using infrared heating elements formed to match said mold contour to establish a casting temperature, casting plastic material onto the preheated metal mold surface, fusing the plastic using infrared energy, cooling the metal mold using the change of phase or state of a cooling material and removing the cast plastic article from said metal mold.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of producing plastic articles, comprising: preheating a metal mold having a backside having a contour and positioning infrared energy from a plurality of electric infrared energy heating elements in an array, wherein each element is bent in a pattern to conform to and is spaced from said contour and provides infrared energy at the backside of said mold to heat said mold, wherein said mold does not rotate relative to said heating element array; casting a plurality of plastic materials onto said preheated metal mold; fusing said plurality of plastic materials using infrared energy; cooling said metal mold by contacting said metal mold with a material which can change state; removing the cast plastic article from said metal mold, wherein said array comprising said plurality of conforming electric infrared energy heating elements is spaced 0.01-5.0 inches from the backside of said mold and said elements are further spaced about 1-3 inches apart running along the backside of said mold to provide relatively uniform coverage of said backside of said mold. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said mold has a thickness between about 0.050 to 0.400 inches. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said infrared energy is supplied from tubular elements. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said infrared energy from said infrared heating elements provides a uniform temperature to said metal mold. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said plastic article removed from said mold has a thickness of 0.025-0.040 inches. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein said infrared heating elements supply at least about 20 watts/square inch. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein said heaters operate in the temperature range of 400-2000.degree. F. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said heaters operate in the range of 1275-1750.degree. F. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said metal mold is coated with a paint to affect the absorption of said infrared energy. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein said paint is selectively applied to said mold to selectively locate said absorption of said infrared energy. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein said change of state employs latent heat. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein said change of state is evaporation. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein said change of state is sublimation. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein said cooling said metal mold by contacting said metal mold with a material which can change state comprises cooling by spraying said mold with a mist of air and water. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein cooling said metal mold by contacting said metal mold with a material which can change state comprises a combination of evaporation and sublimation. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein said plurality of plastic materials are selected from the group consisting of urethane, vinyl, olefin, acrylic, acrylonitrile, butadiene, styrene, thermoplastic elastomer, polysulfone, polyimide, polyphenylene oxide, polyamide, epoxy, and combinations thereof. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein said casting of said plurality of plastic materials onto said preheated metal mold surface comprises casting a plurality of plastic materials in layered or in adjacent disposition. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein said plurality of plastic materials include different polymer compositions, plastic materials having different colors, foamed plastic materials, and reground plastic materials. 19. A method of producing plastic articles, comprising a metal mold that is positioned at a first heating station, wherein a metal mold having a backside having a contour is preheated by positioning infrared energy from a plurality of electric infrared energy heating elements in an array wherein each element is bent in a pattern to conform to and is spaced from said contour and provides said infrared energy at the backside of said mold to heat said mold, wherein said mold does not rotate relative to said heating element array; positioning said mold at a second station and casting a plurality of plastic materials onto said preheated metal mold; positioning said mold at said first station and fusing said plurality of plastic materials using infrared energy from said array of infrared energy heating elements; positioning said mold at a third station and cooling said metal mold by contacting said metal mold with a material which can change state; positioning said mold at a fourth station and removing the cast plastic article from said metal mold, wherein said array comprising said plurality of conforming electric infrared energy heating elements is spaced 0.01-5.0 inches from the backside of said mold and said elements are further spaced about 1-3 inches apart running along the backside of said mold to provide relatively uniform coverage of said backside of said mold. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein said mold is positioned at said first, second, third and fourth stations using a robot. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein said casting of a plurality of plastic materials comprises casting a first plastic material followed by re-positioning said mold at said first heating station to preheat said mold followed by casting a second plastic material. 22. The method of claim 21 wherein the time for casting said first plastic material and said second plastic material is less than 3.0 minutes. 23. Apparatus for products cast as plastic articles comprising; (i) a metal mold to receive a plurality of cast plastic materials, said mold having a backside having a contour; (ii) a plurality of infrared heaters in an array to heat said mold to a desired casting temperature, said infrared heaters including electric infrared heating elements wherein each element is bent in a pattern to conform to and is spaced from said contour and provides heat at the backside of said mold, wherein said mold does not rotate relative to said heating element array; (iii) a cooling device to deliver a material which can change state, wherein said array comprising said plurality of conforming electric infrared energy heating elements is spaced 0.01-5.0 inches from the backside of said mold and said elements are further spaced about 1-3 inches apart running along the backside of said mold to provide relatively uniform coverage of said backside of said mold. 24. The apparatus of claim 23 wherein said infrared heaters comprise tubular elements. 25. The metal mold of claim 23 wherein said mold comprises a nickel electroform. 26. The cooling device of claim 23 wherein said cooling device comprises spray nozzles. 27. The apparatus of claim 23 including a robotic device wherein said apparatus includes stations for heating to a desired casting temperature, casting said plurality of plastic materials, and a station for cooling, wherein said mold is selectively positioned at said station for heating, casting and cooling by said robot. 