A method of a single wafer wet/dry cleaning apparatus comprising: a transfer chamber having a wafer handler contained therein; a first single wafer wet cleaning chamber directly coupled to the transfer chamber; and a first single wafer ashing chamber directly coupled to the transfer chamber.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of processing a wafer comprising: transferring a wafer having a patterned photoresist layer formed on a thin film from a wafer cassette into an atmospheric transfer chamber; transferring said wafer from said atmospheric transfer chamber into a load lock coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber; reducing the pressure in said load lock to a sub-atmospheric pressure; transferring said wafer from said load lock into a sub-atmospheric transfer chamber coupled to said load lock; transferring said wafer from said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber into an etch chamber coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber; etching said thin film in alignment with said patterned photoresist layer in said etch chamber at a sub-atmospheric pressure to form an etched wafer; transferring said etched wafer from said etch chamber to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber; transferring said etched wafer from said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber to an ashing chamber coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber; ashing said etched wafer in said ashing chamber to remove said patterned photoresist layer; transferring said etched and ashed wafer from said ashing chamber to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber; transferring said etched and ashed wafer from said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber into a load lock at said sub-atmospheric pressure; raising the pressure in said load lock to atmospheric pressure; transferring said etched and ashed wafer from said load lock to said atmospheric transfer chamber; transferring said etched and ashed wafer from said atmospheric transfer chamber to a wet cleaning chamber coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber; cleaning said etched and ashed wafer in said wet cleaning chamber to produce an etched, ashed, and cleaned wafer; transferring said etched, ashed, and cleaned wafer from said wet cleaning chamber to said atmospheric transfer chamber; and removing said etched, ashed, and cleaned processed wafer from said atmospheric transfer chamber. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein said thin film comprises a metal film. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein said thin film comprises a stack of metal films. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein said stacked metal film comprises an anti-reflective layer, a main conductive layer, and a barrier layer. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said thin film is a dielectric film. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said dielectric film is selected from the group consisting of silicon dioxide, silicon oxynitride, SiOF, BPSG, undoped silicon glass and organic dielectrics. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein said ashing comprises: exposing said wafer to an energized stripping gas; and before, during or after exposing said wafer to said energized stripping gas, exposing said wafer to an energized treating gas comprising a halogen species and a hydrogen species. 8. The method of claim 7 wherein said stripping gas comprises one or more of O2, N2, H2, H2O, NH3, CF4, C2F6, CHF3, C3H2F6, C2H4F2, and CHF3 provided under pressure conditions selected to at least partially remove a residue when said residue is a remnant resist material. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein said cleaning comprises: transmitting sonic energy to a nondevice side of said etched and ashed wafer while flowing a cleaning solution on a device side of said etched and ashed wafer. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein said cleaning comprises: transmitting sonic energy to a nondevice side of said etched and ashed wafer while flowing said cleaning solution onto a device side of said etched and ashed wafer. 11. The method of claim 1 further comprising: prior to transferring said wafer from said atmospheric transfer chamber into said load lock, transferring said wafer into a CD measurement tool, and determining whether or not the CD measurements are in compliance. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein if said CD measurements are not in compliance transferring said wafer into a ashing chamber coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber, and removing said patterned photoresist layer in said ashing chamber. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: prior to etching said thin film in said etch chamber, trimming said patterned photoresist layer. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein said trimming utilizes an oxygen plasma. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein after ashing said etched wafer, passivating said etched and ashed wafer with a passivating gas which inactivates corrosive etchant residue. 16. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: after ashing said wafer in said ashing chamber, transferring said wafer from said atmospheric transfer chamber into a CD measurement tool, and checking the critical dimensions of said etched wafer. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein after wet cleaning said etched and ashed wafer transferring said etched, ashed and cleaned wafer into a critical dimension monitoring tool coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber and checking a critical dimensions of said etched film. 18. The method of claim 1 wherein said thin film is a dielectric film, and further comprising after transferring said etched, ashed and cleaned wafer from said wet cleaning chamber to said atmospheric transfer chamber; transferring said etched, ashed and cleaned wafer from said atmospheric transfer chamber into a load lock coupled to said atmospheric transfer chamber; reducing the pressure of said load lock to a sub-atmospheric pressure; transferring said wafer from said load lock into a sub-atmospheric transfer chamber coupled to said load lock; transferring said wafer from said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber into a metal deposition chamber coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber; depositing a metal film in said deposition chamber coupled to said sub-atmospheric transfer chamber. 