An apparatus and method for simultaneously coating and measuring a part including a part support, a sprayer, a part measurer including a digital camera and a display device, all of which are positioned adjacent to the part support. The sprayer applies a coating to a section of the part while the part measurer continuously measures at least two dimensions of the section. The digital camera takes at least one picture of the entire section of the part while the part is being coated and enables a user to accurately determine the cross section of the part to the optimum finished part configuration and size and also detect defects, blemishes or coating irregularities formed on the section. The apparatus and method of the present invention significantly reduces the margin of error related to the application of coatings to parts, the number of defective parts and increases the overall efficiency.
Claims The invention is claimed as follows: 1. A method for applying a coating to a section of a part, said method comprising: (a) placing the part on a part support; (b) initially measuring at least two different planes of a dimension of the section of the part to be coated using a part measurer including a digital camera; (c) calculating an initial amount of coating to be applied to the section of the part based on the initial dimension measurements and a desired dimension of the section of the part; (d) applying the initial amount of coating to the part while continuing to take measurements of the dimension of the section of the part being coated including any coating applied to said section of the part; (e) calculating a final amount of coating to be applied to the section of the part based on said continuing dimension measurements and the desired dimension of the section of the part; (f) applying the final amount of coating to the section of the part while continuing to measure the dimension of the section of the part being coated including any coating applied to the section of the part; and (g) removing the part from the part support. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring the part includes taking sequential digital pictures of the part. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the part measurer includes a plurality of digital cameras, and which includes taking at least two different digital pictures of the section of the part being coated using the digital cameras. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the part measurer includes a plurality of digital cameras, and which includes taking at least one digital picture of each of said at least two different planes of the part being coated using the digital cameras. 5. The method of claim 1, which includes prompting a user if a defect or irregularity is detected on the part being coated. 6. The method of claim 1, which includes displaying a digital motion picture of the section of the part being coated on a display device. 7. The method of claim 1, which includes displaying a digital picture of the section of the part being coated on a display device. 8. The method of claim 1, which includes prompting a user if at least one of the measurements of the section of the part being coated including any coating applied to the section of the part is not within a predetermined range of acceptable dimensions. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the coating includes a powder coating applied to the section of the part using at least one powder coating sprayer. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the coating to the section of the part includes electrostatically applying the coating to the section of the part. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the coating applied to the section of the part includes at least one of the coatings selected from the group consisting of: a liquid coating, a powder coating, a primer coating and a topcoat. 12. A method for applying a coating to a section of a part, said method comprising: (a) placing the part on a part support; (b) initially measuring at least one plane of the section of the part to be coated using a part measurer including a digital camera; (c) calculating an initial amount of coating to be applied to the section of the part based at least on said initial measurement and a desired dimension of the section of the part; (d) applying the initial amount of coating to the part while continuing to take measurements of said plane of the section of the part being coated, including any coating applied to said section of the part; (e) calculating a final amount of coating to be applied to the section of the part based on said continuing measurements and the desired dimension of the section of the part; (f) applying the final amount of coating to the section of the part while continuing to measure the section of the part being coated, including any coating applied to said section of the part; and (g) removing the part from the part support. 13. The method of claim 12, which includes prompting a user if a defect or irregularity is detected on the part before being coated. 14. The method of claim 12, which includes displaying a digital motion picture of the section of the part being coated on a display device. 15. The method of claim 12, which includes displaying a digital picture of the section of the part being coated on a display device. 16. The method of claim 12, which includes prompting a user if at least one of the measurements of the section of the part being coated including any coating applied to said section of the part is not within a predetermined range of acceptable dimensions for the part. 17. The method of claim 12, wherein the coating includes a powder coating applied to the section of the part using at least one powder coating sprayer. 18. The method of claim 12, wherein applying the coating to the section of the part includes electrostatically applying the coating to the section of the part. 19. The method of claim 12, wherein the coating applied to the section of the part includes at least one of the coatings selected from the group consisting of: a liquid coating, a powder coating, a primer coating and a topcoat. 20. A method for applying a coating to a section of a part, said method comprising: (a) placing the part on a part support; (b) applying an amount of coating to the section of the part until a dimensional measurement of the section of the part being coated including any coating applied to said section of the part taken by a part measurer including a digital camera is within a predetermined range of acceptable dimensions, said amount of coating based on at least two measurements of the section of the part using the part measurer taken before and while the section of the part is being coated and a desired dimension of the section of the part; and (c) removing the part from the part support after the measurement of the section of the part being coated including any coating applied to the section of the part is within the range of acceptable dimensions for the section of the part. 21. The method of claim 20, which includes removing the part from the part support if a defect is detected on the part. 22. The method of claim 20, which includes displaying the measurements of the section of the part on a display device. 23. The method of claim 20, which includes prompting a user if at least one of the measurements of the section of the part being coated including any coating applied to the section of the part is not within the range of acceptable dimensions for the part. 24. A method for applying a coating to a section of a part, said method comprising: (a) placing the part on a part support; (b) initially measuring at least one place of the section of the part to be coated using a part measurer including a digital camera; (c) calculating an initial amount of coating to be applied to the section of the part based at least on said initial measurement and a desired dimension of the section of the part; (d) applying the initial amount of coating to the part while continuing to take measurements of the dimension of the section of the part being coated including any coating applied to said section of the part; (e) calculating a final amount of coating to be applied to the section of the part based on said continuing measurements and said desired dimension of the section of the part; (f) applying the final amount of coating to the section of the part; and (g) removing the part from the part support. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein the part measurer includes a plurality of digital cameras. 26. The method of claim 25, which includes taking at least two different digital pictures of different planes of the section of the part being coated using the digital cameras, the section of the part being coated including any coating applied to said section of the part. 27. The method of claim 24, which includes prompting a user if a defect or irregularity is detected on the part before being coated. 28. The method of claim 24, which includes displaying a digital motion picture of the section of the part being coated on a display device. 29. The method of claim 24, which includes displaying a digital picture of the section of the part being coated on a display device. 30. The method of 24, which includes prompting a user if at least one of the measurements of the section of the part being coated including any coating applied to the section of the part being coated is not within a predetermined range of acceptable dimensions. 31. The method of claim 24, wherein the coating includes a powder coating applied to the section of the part using at least one powder coating sprayer. 32. The method of claim 24, wherein applying the coating to the section of the part includes electrostatically applying the coating to the section of the part. 33. The method of claim 24, wherein the coating applied to the section of the part includes at least one of the coatings selected from the group consisting of: a liquid coating, a powder coating, a primer coating and a topcoat. 