An apparatus is provided for forming field coils on a stator stack including a plurality of slots defined by stator teeth. The apparatus includes a stator nest for holding a stator stack and a winding tool extending through the stator nest for locating wire in the stator stack. The winding tool includes a wire feed aperture for feeding wire into slots of the stator stack. A drifting tool is supported on the winding tool and includes radially extending drift blades for extending into the slots of the stator stack for forming or shaping wire coils that are wound on the stator teeth by the winding tool. Longitudinal movement of the winding tool causes the drifting tool to move into and out of engagement with the stator stack.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for forming field coils on a stator for a dynamo-electric machine, said stator including a plurality of slots defined by stator teeth, said apparatus comprising: a stator nest for holding a stator stack; a generally cylindrical winding tool extending through said stator nest for locating wire in a stator stack held in said stator nest, said winding tool including a wire feed aperture for feeding wire into slots of a stator stack supported in said stator nest; a drift tool supported on said winding tool, and comprising at least one radially extending drift blade for extending into the slots of said stator stack, said drift tool including an annular body: and wherein said winding tool includes an undercut portion, and said annular body of said drift tool surrounds said undercut portion. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, including a collar supported on said winding tool, said drift tool being supported between said collar and said wire feed aperture. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said drift tool is rotatable relative to said winding tool. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein said drift tool includes at least two radially extending drift blades for extending through the slots of said stator stack, and including a stationary guide pin located on said stator nest and positioned between said drift blades to guide said drift tool in rotating movement. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, further including an upper drift tool located adjacent an upper end of said winding tool and comprising at least one radially extending drift blade for extending into the slots of said stator stack. 6. An apparatus for forming field coils on a stator for a dynamo-electric machine, said stator including a plurality of slots defined by stator teeth, said apparatus comprising: a stator nest for holding a stator stack; a winding tool extending through said stator nest for locating wire in a stator stack held in said stator nest, said winding tool including a wire feed aperture for feeding wire into slots of a stator stack supported in said stator nest; a lower drift tool supported on said winding tool adjacent a lower end of said winding tool, said lower drift tool including at least one drift blade for extending through the slots of said stator stack and for engaging and forming wire located in the slots of said stator stack; and including an upper drift tool located adjacent an upper end of said winding tool, said upper drift tool including at least one drift blade for extending through the slots of said stator stack and for engaging and forming wire located in the slots of said stator stack. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said lower drift tool is driven in reciprocating longitudinal movement by said winding tool. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein said lower drift tool rotates in response to the longitudinal movement of said winding tool. 9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said lower drift tool is supported for rotational movement relative to said winding tool. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said lower drift tool includes a generally cylindrical drift tool body, and a plurality of drift blades extending radially from said drift tool body for extending through the slots of said stator stack. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, including a stationary guide member located in stationary relationship to said stator nest and positioned between adjacent drift blades to guide said lower drift tool in rotating movement. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said drift blades extend at an angle relative to a rotational axis of said lower drift tool. 13. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said winding tool defines a generally cylindrical outer surface and said wire feed aperture comprises an opening formed in said outer surface. 14. An apparatus for forming field coils on a stator for a dynamo-electric machine, said stator including a plurality of slots defined by stator teeth, said apparatus comprising: a stator nest for holding a stator stack; a winding tool extending through said stator nest for locating wire in a stator stack held in said stator nest, said winding tool supported for longitudinal movement and including a wire feed aperture for feeding wire into slots of a stator stack supported in said stator nest; an upper drift tool comprising a generally cylindrical drift tool body, and a plurality of drift blades extending radially from said drift tool body for extending through the slots of said stator stack for engaging and forming wire located in the slots of said stator stack adjacent an upper end of said winding tool; and a lower drift tool supported for longitudinal movement with said winding tool, said lower drift tool comprising a generally cylindrical drift tool body, and a plurality of drift blades extending radially from said drift tool body for extending through the slots of said stator stack for engaging and forming wire located in the slots of said stator stack adjacent a lower end of said winding tool. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, including a stationary guide member located in stationary relationship to said stator nest and positioned between adjacent drift blades of said lower drift tool to guide said lower drift tool in rotating movement relative to said stator nest. 16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein said lower drift tool is supported for rotational movement relative to said winding tool. 