Apparatus for a CMM Arm with Exoskeleton is provided comprising an Internal CMM Arm with a base end and a probe end, and an Exoskeleton driving the Internal CMM Arm through a plurality of transmission. One or more contact probes, optical probes and tools are mounted on the probe end. The CMM Arm with Exoskeleton is provided in manually operable and automated embodiments. The CMM Arm with Exoskeleton is operable for accurate measurement or for performing accurate operations. Methods are provided for operation of the CMM Arm with Exoskeleton.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus for measurement of an object comprising: (a) a robot CMM Arm comprising: a movable member having a base end, an opposing probe end and three or more segments separated by two or more rotational axes of movement between said base end and said probe end wherein at least two of the said rotational axes of movement are not parallel; a continuous movable position reporting device having a base end, an opposing probe end and three or more stiff segments connected in tandem by mechanical joints separated by two or more rotational axes of movement between said base end and said probe end wherein at least two of the said rotational axes of movement are not parallel; and a transmission in contact with both said movable member and said movable position reporting device, wherein the contact of said transmission with said movable member is located anywhere between said probe end and the rotational axis of movement closest to said base end; such that movement of said movable member causes movement of said movable position reporting device; wherein said transmission comprises a plurality of discrete transmissions and at least one of said discrete transmissions is not rigid; and (b) a movable structure configured to translate and/or orientate the robot CMM Arm, wherein the robot CMM Arm is mounted on the movable structure, and/or (c) an object displacing means configured to translate and/or orientate the object being measured. 2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the movable structure is configured to translate or orientate the robot CMM Arm in six degrees of freedom. 3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the movable structure comprises a rail axis wherein the base end of the robot CMM Arm is mounted thereon such that the robot CMM Arm is traversable along the rail axes. 4. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the number of rail axes is two, one Robot CMM Arm is mounted on each rail axis, and the rail axes are arranged parallel and opposite each other. 5. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the number of Robot CMM Arms is two, both of which are mounted on a single rail axis and are configured to move independently. 6. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the number of Robot CMM Arms is four, the number of rail axes is two, and two Robot CMM Arms are mounted on each single rail axis and are configured to move independently. 7. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the base of the Robot CMM Arm is mounted on a vertical axis that can move the Robot CMM Arm vertically upwards and downwards and the vertical axis are configured to move along the rail axis. 8. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the number of Robot CMM Arms is two, both of which are mounted on a movable multiple arm base that moves on a single rail axis, wherein the two Robot CMM Arms are separated by a suitable distance S such that the working overlap is sufficient to eliminate unreachable gaps between the robots in the working volume. 9. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the rail axis is linear. 10. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the rail axis is mounted above a floor such that it can be removed and reinstalled in a different location. 11. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the rail axis is permanently embedded in a floor. 12. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the rail axis is manually driven, motor driven in response to manual actuation, or CNC driven. 13. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the robot CMM arm is configured not to measure whilst it is translating along the rail axis. 14. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the movable structure comprises a floor mounted bridge traversing over a work area on which an object to be measured is situated. 15. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the movable structure is configured such that it can move any time during or between measurements by the robot CMM Arm. 16. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the movable structure is configured to measure the position and optionally the orientation of the robot CMM Arm mounted thereon. 17. The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the movable structure is a conventional CMM. 18. The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the CMM is a 3-axis CMM. 19. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the object displacing means is configured to measure the position and optionally the orientation of the object mounted thereon. 20. The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the object displacing means comprises a rotary table equipped with an angular position recording device for rotating an object to be measured. 21. The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the object displacing means comprises a linear table equipped with a position reporting device for linearly displacing an object to be measured. 22. The apparatus according to claim 1, configured to move both the Robot CMM Arm and the object simultaneously whilst measurement is being performed. 23. The apparatus according to claim 1, configured to move only the object whilst measurement is being performed. 24. The apparatus according to claim 1, configured to move only the Robot CMM Arm whilst measurement is being performed. 25. A method for the measurement of an object using an apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the moving structure and/or object displacing means are moved during or between measurements. 26. The method according to claim 25, comprising the steps of: a) mounting the object to be measured on the object displacing means; b) measuring the object while the Robot CMM Arm is stationary and the object is moving; and c) thereby obtaining a measurement of the object. 27. The method according to claim 25, comprising the steps of: a) mounting the object to be measured on the object displacing means; b) measuring the object while the both Robot Arm and the object move simultaneously; c) transforming the co-ordinate systems of the object displacing means and the moveable structure to a common co-ordinate system; and d) thereby obtaining a measurement of the object. 28. The method according to claim 25, comprising the steps of: a) mounting the object to be measured on the object displacing means; b) measuring the object while the Robot Arm moves and the object is stationary; and c) thereby obtaining a measurement of the object. 