An articulated tracked vehicle that has a main section, which includes a main frame, and a forward section. The main frame has two sides and a front end, and includes a pair of parallel main tracks. Each main track includes a flexible continuous belt coupled to a corresponding side of the main frame. The forward section includes an elongated arm. One end of the arm is pivotally coupled to the main frame near the forward end of the main frame about a transverse axis that is generally perpendicular to the sides of the main frame. The arm has a length sufficiently long to allow the forward section to extend below the main section in at least some degrees of rotation of the arm, and a length shorter than the length of the main section. The center of mass of the main section is located forward of the rearmost point reached by the end of the arm in its pivoting about the transverse axis. The main section is contained within the volume defined by the main tracks and is symmetrical about a horizontal plane, thereby allowing inverted operation of the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic platform comprising: right and left side plates rigidly coupled apart to form a main body capable of carrying a payload within a payload volume substantially defined between the right and left side plates; right and left main tracks disposed on corresponding sides of the main body, each main track trained about a corresponding main drive pulley and a corresponding rear idler pulley; right and left front arms pivotally coupled by an articulator axle passing through the main drive pulleys to pivot with respect to the main body, each front arm being mounted on a side of the corresponding main track opposite the main body, and comprising: a front drive pulley concentric with and coupled to rotate in unison with a corresponding main drive pulley; an outer side plate mounted on a side of the corresponding main drive pulley opposite the main body; a front idler pulley rotatably mounted at a distal end of the side plate; and a front arm track trained about the front drive pulley and front idler pulley; right and left track motors respectively driving the right main and front drive pulleys and left main and front drive pulleys, the right and left track motors being differentially driven to provide skid steering; and an articulator drive motor coupled to the articulator axle, the articulator axle rigidly coupling the outer side plates of the front arms, the articulator drive motor rotating the articulator axle and front arms in unison in a continuous 360 degrees between a stowed position, in which the front arms are next to the right and left side plates of the main body and the front arm tracks provide traction with the main tracks in a compact track configuration, and at least one deployed position, in which the front arms are pivoted at an angle with respect to the main tracks. 2. The robotic platform of claim 1, further comprising a payload disposed on top of the main body outside of the payload volume defined by the main tracks and positioned substantially over the center of mass of the robot. 3. The robotic platform of claim 1, wherein the main body and payload volume are recessed relative to a top and a bottom of the main tracks, and the left and right side plates are recessed within a track volume of the main tracks. 4. The robotic platform of claim 1, wherein the combination of main tracks and forward tracks, trained about the right main drive pulley and front drive pulley and the left main drive pulley and front drive, provide an extended wheel base, all the right main drive pulley, right front drive pulley, left main drive pulley, and left front drive pulley being of substantially similar diameter, and wherein the extended wheel base is sufficiently long to span a minimum of two stair steps of 7'' rise by 11'' tread stairs at all times, and the center of gravity of the robotic platform is located so that the robotic platform remains statically stable as it climbs stair steps of 7'' rise by 11'' tread stairs. 5. The robotic platform of claim 1, wherein the main body comprises an aft tube extending between and rigidly coupling the substantially parallel right and left side plates, the aft tube being accessible as a carrying handle. 6. The robotic platform of claim 1, wherein a center of mass of the robotic platform is contained within an envelope of the 360 degree rotation of the front arms; and wherein the articulator drive motor is configured to apply a torque to the articulator axle and front arms to: (a) reach an upright mobility position of the robotic platform by pivoting the front arms from the stowed position downward and away from the main tracks, raising and supporting the main body on the front arms, and (b) perform a self righting maneuver from the upright mobility position by pivoting the front arms to drive the upright main body past a vertical position, causing the robot to fall over and thereby invert the main body. 7. The robotic platform of claim 6, further comprising a camera housed in a forward portion of the main body and arranged to provide a forward field of view along a driving direction of the robotic platform. 8. The robotic platform of claim 1, further comprising: a camera sensor disposed on the front of the main body and directed along a forward travel direction of the main tracks for navigation; and a mast attached to the main body and operable to be extended away from the top of the robot. 9. The robotic platform of claim 8, farther comprising a camera mounted on the mast. 10. The robotic platform of claim 8, further comprising a manipulator mounted on the mast. 11. The robotic platform of claim 10, wherein the manipulator comprises a door opening mechanism. 12. The robotic platform of claim 10, further comprising a camera disposed in the payload volume and directed outwardly from the payload volume. 13. The robotic platform of claim 1, wherein a center of mass of the robotic platform is contained within an envelope of the 360 degree rotation of the front arms, and wherein the articulator drive motor is configured to apply a torque to the front arms to: (a) reach an upright mobility position of the robotic platform by rotating the front arms from the stowed position downward and away from the main tracks, raising and supporting the main body on the front arms, and (b) perform a self-righting maneuver from the upright mobility position by rotating the front arms to drive the upright main body past a vertical position, causing the robot to fall over and thereby invert the main body. 14. A robotic platform comprising: right and left side plates rigidly coupled apart to form a main body capable of carrying a payload within a payload volume substantially defined between the right and left side plates; right and left main tracks disposed on corresponding sides of the main body, each main track trained about a corresponding main drive pulley and a corresponding rear idler pulley; right and left front arms pivotally coupled by an articulator axle passing through the main drive pulleys to pivot with respect to the main body, each front arm being mounted on a side of the corresponding main track opposite the main body, and comprising: a front drive pulley concentric with and coupled to rotate in unison with a corresponding main drive pulley; an outer side plate mounted on a side of the corresponding main drive pulley opposite the main body; a front idler pulley rotatably mounted at a distal end of the side plate; and a front arm track trained about the front drive pulley and front idler pulley; right and left track motors respectively driving the right main and front drive pulleys and left main and front drive pulleys, the right and left track motors being differentially driven to provide skid steering; an articulator drive motor coupled to the articulator axle, the articulator axle rigidly coupling the outer side plates of the front arms, the articulator drive motor rotating the articulator axle and front arms in unison in a continuous 360 degrees between a stowed position, in which the front arms are next to the right and left side plates of the main body and the front arm tracks provide traction with the main tracks in a compact track configuration, and at least one deployed position, in which the front arms are pivoted at an angle with respect to the main tracks; and a slip clutch coupled between the articulator drive motor and the front arms, the slip clutch enabling rotation of the front arms without rotation of the articulator drive motor when a torque between at least one front arm and the main body, caused by a force acting on the at least one arm, exceeds a maximum torque that can be provided by the articulator drive motor; wherein the combination of main tracks and forward tracks, trained about the right main drive pulley and front drive pulley and the left main drive pulley and front drive, provide an extended wheel base, all the right main drive pulley, right front drive pulley, left main drive pulley, and left front drive pulley being of substantially similar diameter. 15. The robotic platform of claim 14, further comprising a drive coupling the articulator drive motor to the slip clutch, the slip clutch is coupled to an articulator axle coupled to the front arms to rotate the front arms about the main drive pulley axis, the drive providing a gear reduction between the articulator drive motor and the articulator axle. 16. The robotic platform of claim 14, wherein the right and left main tracks comprise compliant belts having soft elastomer cleats spaced along their length. 17. The robotic platform of claim 16, wherein the compliant belts of the right and left main tracks include V-shaped segments on the inside surfaces of the compliant belts that mate with the pulleys. 18. The robotic platform of claim 14, wherein the main drive pulleys, front drive pulleys, rear idler wheels, and front idler wheels each comprise a compliant outer rim, a hub, and multiple compliant spoke segments coupled between the rim and the hub. 19. The robotic platform of claim 14, wherein the outer side plates of the right and left front arms are rigidly coupled to one another by an articulator axle extending therebetween along the main drive pulley axis to provide uniform rotation of the front arms about the main drive pulley axis. 20. The robotic platform of claim 14, wherein on each side of the main body, between the main drive pulley and the rear idler pulley, a main track support provides support for the main track. 21. A robotic platform comprising: right and left side plates rigidly coupled apart to form a main body capable of carrying a payload within a payload volume substantially defined between the right and left side plates; right and left main tracks disposed on corresponding sides of the main body, each main track trained about a corresponding main drive pulley and a corresponding rear idler pulley; right and left front arms pivotally coupled by an articulator axle passing through the main drive pulleys to pivot with respect to the main body, each front arm being mounted on a side of the corresponding main track opposite the main body, and comprising: a front drive pulley concentric with and coupled to rotate in unison with a corresponding main drive pulley; an outer side plate mounted on a side of the corresponding main drive pulley opposite the main body; a front idler pulley rotatably mounted at a distal end of the side plate; and a front arm track trained about the front drive pulley and front idler pulley; right and left track motors respectively driving the right main and front drive pulleys and left main and front drive pulleys, the right and left track motors being differentially driven to provide skid steering; an articulator drive motor coupled to the articulator axle, the articulator axle rigidly coupling the outer side plates of the front arms, the articulator drive motor pivoting the articulator axle and front arms in unison in a continuous 360 degrees among different mobility modes of the robotic platform, the mobility modes comprising: an extended mobility mode in which the front arms are pivoted, at an angle with respect to the main tracks, forward of the main body and a center of gravity of the robotic platform is located at least 13 inches rearward of a distal end of the front arms and at least 13 inches forward of the rear most point of the main tracks; a stowed mobility mode in which the front arms pivoted to a position in which the front arms are next to the right and left side plates of the main body, and the front arm tracks provide traction with the main tracks in a compact track configuration; an inclined mobility mode in which the front arms are pivoted to an angle with respect to the main tracks inclining the main body such that the robotic platform travels on four points of contact at the extreme ends of the main tracks and front tracks; and an upright mobility mode in which the front arms are pivoted to an angle with respect to the main tracks to balance the main body on the front arms, and in which the robotic platform is able to drive on the front tracks and to pivot in place. 22. The robotic platform of claim 21, wherein the center of mass of the main body is positioned within an envelope of the 360 degree rotation of the front arms such that when articulator drive motor drives the articulator axle to drive the front arms, the front arms are movable from a position next to the right and left side plates of the main body to positions that elevate the center of gravity of the main body upward from a center of gravity of the arm, until the center of gravity of the main body moves past the main drive pulley and front drive pulley, urging the robotic platform to fall onto the main tracks to reach an orientation inverted from a previous orientation. 23. The robotic platform of claim 21, further comprising a payload disposed on top of the main body outside of the payload volume defined by the main tracks and positioned substantially over the center of mass of the robot. 24. The robotic platform of claim 21, further comprising a mast attached to the main body and operable to be extended away from the top of the robot. 25. The robotic platform of claim 21, wherein the right and left front arms are independently driven for independent rotation about the main drive pulley axis. 