Certain embodiments of the present invention provide methods and systems for imaging system calibration using a field replaceable unit. Certain embodiments provide a field replaceable unit for imaging system calibration. The unit includes an array of radio opaque fiducials arranged for use in image calibration for an imaging system. The unit also includes a plurality of receivers positioned around a periphery of a detector in the imaging system for use in navigation calibration for the imaging system. The unit further includes a connection for providing data regarding image calibration and navigation calibration to a processor. Additionally, the unit includes a frame for positioning the array of radio opaque fiducials and the plurality of receivers embedded in a concave target with respect to a detector in the imaging system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A field replaceable unit for imaging system calibration, said unit comprising: an array of radio opaque fiducials arranged for use in image calibration for an imaging system; a plurality of receivers positioned around a periphery of a detector in said imaging system for use in navigation calibration for the imaging system; a connection for providing data regarding image calibration and navigation calibration to a processor; and a frame for positioning said array of radio opaque fiducials and said plurality of receivers with respect to a detector in the imaging system. 2. The unit of claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of receivers comprises first and second sensors. 3. The unit of claim 2, wherein, in a sensor pair, said first sensor provides navigation information and said second sensor provides at least one of hemisphere disambiguation and field integrity detection. 4. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a bumper surrounding said array of radio opaque fiducials and said plurality of receivers. 5. The unit of claim 1, wherein the detector is mounted on a support member. 6. The unit of claim 5, wherein said support member comprises at least one of a C-arm, an L-arm and an O-arm. 7. The unit of claim 1, wherein said unit is configured for use with a plurality of imaging systems. 8. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a shield arranged to reduce variability of electromagnetic signatures between different imaging systems. 9. The unit of claim 1, wherein said unit includes a window portion and said window portion having a concave shape facing an energy source of the imaging system, said concave shape having a radius corresponding to an object-to-imager distance of the imaging system. 10. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a processor configured to determine a receiver coordinate system for the imaging system based on navigation data from said plurality of receivers. 11. The unit of claim 10, wherein said processor determines said receiver coordinate system based on at least one of a transmitter to receiver distance and a field integrity detection number. 12. A method for imaging system calibration, said method comprising: obtaining navigation information using a calibration target positioned with respect to a detector between an energy source and an image acquisition device in an imaging system, said calibration target including a plurality of receivers providing navigation information; determining a receiver coordinate system for the imaging system based on said navigation information; and obtaining image calibration data using an array of radio opaque fiducials arranged around a periphery of the detector between the image acquisition device and the energy source. 13. The method of claim 12, further comprising calibrating the imaging system based on the receiver coordinate system and the image calibration data. 14. The method of claim 12, the receiver coordinate system is determined based on at least one of a transmitter to receiver distance and a field integrity detection number. 15. The method of claim 12, wherein each of said plurality of receivers includes a sensor pair providing navigation information and at least one of hemisphere disambiguation and field integrity detection. 16. The method of claim 12, further comprising tagging signal data from each of said plurality of receivers with an identifier for use in constructing a distortion map. 17. A calibration target system for use in an imaging environment, said system comprising: a frame for positioning a plurality of components with respect to a detector mounted on a support member in an imaging environment; an array of radio opaque fiducials mounted on said frame, said array of radio opaque fiducials arranged to provide image calibration information; a plurality of receivers positioned on said frame around a periphery of the detector to provide navigation information; and a shield arranged with respect to said frame to cover sides of the detector. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein said plurality of receivers are integrated with a bumper positioned to the front and back of the detector. 19. The system of claim 17, wherein each of said plurality of receivers includes two three-coil sensors. 20. The system of claim 19, wherein one of said two three-coil sensors provide navigation information and one of said two three-coil sensors provides at least one of hemisphere disambiguation and field integrity detection information. 