The device for detecting the binding of two chemical species includes a first plate having a base, multiple optical fibers and a second plate. The base has multiple grooves formed therein. The multiple optical fibers are each disposed within a corresponding one of the multiple grooves. The second plate has multiple channels formed therein. The first plate and the second plate are configured to be placed adjacent to one another such that each the optical fiber is exposed to and traverses the multiple channels.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A device for detecting the binding of two chemical species, comprising: a first plate comprising: a base having multiple grooves formed therein; and multiple optical fibers each disposed within its corresponding groove of said multiple grooves; and a second plate having multiple channels formed therein, where said first plate and said second plate are configured to be placed adjacent to one another such that each of said optical fibers is exposed to and extends across said multiple channels. 2. The device of claim 1, wherein said grooves are substantially parallel to one another. 3. The device of claim 1, wherein said multiple channels are substantially parallel to one another. 4. The device of claim 1, wherein each of said grooves have a cross-section selected from the group consisting of: a square cross-section, a rectangular cross-section, a semicircular cross section, and a mixture thereof. 5. The device of claim 1, wherein each of said grooves have a substantially square cross-section. 6. The device of claim 1, wherein each of said optical fibers substantially occupies its corresponding groove of said multiple grooves in which it is disposed. 7. The device of claim 1, wherein said base and said optical fibers have different refractive indices. 8. The device of claim 1, wherein an upper surface of said base and said optical fibers are substantially flush with one another. 9. The device of claim 1, wherein each of said optical fibers comprises a different chemical species immobilized thereon. 10. The device of claim 1, wherein said optical fibers are substantially parallel to one another. 11. The device of claim 1, wherein said grooves extend across an entire length of said base. 12. The device of claim 1, wherein said channels extend partially across a length of said second plate. 13. The device of claim 1, wherein said second plate contains multiple wells, each of said wells fluidly coupled to its corresponding channel of said multiple channels. 14. The device of claim 1, wherein said base is opaque. 15. The device of claim 1, wherein said base is reflective. 16. A device for contacting at least two chemical species, comprising: a plate comprising a channel capable of receiving a mobile chemical species; and a fiber having an immobilized chemical species disposed along a portion of said fiber, wherein said fiber is disposed on said plate and is across a width of said channel such that said portion of said fiber is exposed to said channel; and a molecular beacon probe coupled to said mobile or said immobilized chemical species. 17. The device of claim 16, wherein said immobilized chemical species comprises a polynucleotide and wherein said molecular beacon probe is coupled to said polynucleotide and comprises a bi-labeled fluorescent oligonucleotide probe held in a hairpin-loop conformation formed by two complementary stem sequences near both ends of said oligonucleotide probe. 18. The device of claim 16, wherein said molecular beacon probe is coupled to said mobile chemical species and comprises a bi-labeled oligonucleotide fluorescent probe held in a hairpin-loop conformation formed by two complementary stem sequences near both ends of said oligonucleotide probe. 19. The device of claim 16, wherein said molecular beacon probe comprises a fluorescence reporter. 20. The device of claim 16, wherein said immobilized chemical species comprises a polynucleotide and wherein said molecular beacon probe is coupled to said polynucleotide and comprises an oligonucleotide probe with a moiety at its one end and a non-fluorescent moiety at its other end which is held in a hairpin-loop conformation formed by two complementary stem sequences near both ends of said oligonucleotide probe so that said molecular beacon and said immobilized chemical species form a complex and said oligonucleotide probe has said moiety at one end of said immobilized chemical species of said complex and said non-fluorescent quenching moiety at another end of said immobilized chemical species of said complex. 