A Faraday cup structure for use with a processing tool. The cup structure has a conductive strike plate coupled to a circuit for monitoring ions striking the strike plate to obtain an indication of the ion beam current. The electrically conductive strike plate is fronted by a mask for dividing an ion beam intercepting cross section into regions or segments. The mask including walls extending to the strike plate for impeding ions reaching the sensor and particles dislodged from the sensor from entering into the evacuated region of the processing tool.
Claims We claim: 1. For use with a semiconductor processing tool having an evacuated region for treating a workpiece by directing an ion beam to strike a workpiece, apparatus comprising: a source, beam transfer structure and a workpiece support defining a path of travel for ions in an ion beam that impinge on one or more workpieces at an implantation station, a sensor comprising an electrically conductive base having a generally planar strike plate and an electrically conductive mask in electrical contact with the base that comprises a mask body having an array of elongated throughpassages that extend from a front surface of the mask body, through the mask body to a rear surface of the mask body in contact with the generally planar strike plate of the base for dividing an ion intercepting cross section of said beam into regions, and a housing that supports the sensor while holding the rear surface of the mask body in engagement with the generally planar strike plate of the conductive base, said mask throughpassages including walls extending through the mask body to allow ions to pass through the mask body and strike said conductive base while impeding ions reaching the sensor from rebounding into the evacuated region of the processing tool. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the sensor is fixed with respect a moving workpiece support in an implantation chamber. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising a controller coupled to the sensor for monitoring electrical charge of charged ions impacting the sensor. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the throughpassages are generally cylindrical. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein an orientation angles of the cylindrical throughpassages differ across the sensor. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the cylindrical throughpassages form two or more different angles with a front surface of said mask. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the implantation station comprises a chamber mounted for rotation and wherein the sensor is mounted to the chamber so that as the chamber is rotated, an angle of incidence between the ion beam and the mask changes. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the base and the mask are constructed from graphite. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the mask has a front surface whose ratio to a circumscribed area of said mask is approximately 14%. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the base forms a cup that supports the mask in position within the sensor. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising a number of magnets that border the path of travel before ions strike the mask or base to inhibit backstreaming of electrons from the region of the base into the implantation station. 12. In a semiconductor processing assembly, a method for reducing and controlling contaminates within the processing assembly comprising: mounting a workpiece for processing in an evacuated region and causing a beam of ions to controllably impact the workpiece by accelerating the ions from a source to said workpiece through an evacuated region that defines a beam travel path; positioning an electrically conductive sensing surface in the beam travel path to gather ion beam current data, and mounting an electrically conductive beam segmenting multichannel mask body which is machined from a single piece of electrically conductive material upstream in the travel path from the sensing surface and in electrical communication with the electrically conductive sensing surface so that bounding walls of throughpassages that extend from a front to rear surface of said mask body segment allow the ions to reach the sensing surface and inhibit backstreaming of material away from the sensing surface after collision of ions with the sensing surface. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the mask body is machined from a single piece of graphite to form multiple throughpassages. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the sensing surface is mounted within an implantation chamber which is rotated about an axis to modify an angle of impact between the ion beam and the workpiece. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the sensing surface and mask body are mounted to the implantation chamber so that rotation of the chamber changes an angle the ions of the beam contact the mask. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the mask body is constructed from a graphite material having two different regions of passageways machined into the graphite material and wherein rotation of the chamber causes the ion beam to enter different passageway regions. 17. An ion beam current sensor comprising: a) an electrically conductive strike plate coupled to a circuit for monitoring ions striking the strike plate and obtaining an indication of the ion beam current striking the conductive strike plate; and b) a mask abutting the conductive strike plate having two or more regions wherein generally cylindrical passageways of one region have center axes that are angled with respect to axes of generally cylindrical passageways of a different one of said regions for segmenting the ions directed to said strike plate into channels for impeding backscattering of ions striking the conductive strike plate. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein the cylinders of one portion have axes that form an angle of between 30 and 35 degrees of the axes of the cylinders of a second portion. 19. The current sensor of claim 17 wherein the mask is conductive and has a thickness through which extend elongated channels or passageways to allow ions of an ion beam reaching a region of the mask to pass through the mask and contact the strike plate. 20. For use with a semiconductor processing tool having an evacuated region for treating a workpiece by directing an ion beam to strike a workpiece, apparatus comprising: a source, beam transfer structure and a workpiece support defining a path of travel for ions in an ion beam that impinge on one or more workpieces at an implantation station, and a sensor comprising: a) an electrically conductive base; and b) an electrically conductive mask for dividing an ion intercepting cross section of said beam into regions, said mask including a mask body having throughpassages bound by walls and constructed from a single sensor subassembly extending to and in electrical contact with the electrically conductive base for impeding ions reaching the sensor from rebounding into the evacuated region of the processing tool. 