The present invention provides meta-materials with an actively controllable mechanical property. The meta-material includes a deformable structure and a set of activation elements. The activation elements are controllable between multiple states. The meta-material includes a first value for a mechanical property when one or more of the activation elements is in the first activation state and includes a second value for the mechanical property when the activation elements have been activated to the second activation state. In one aspect, the meta-material resembles a composite material where the connectivity between the component materials or shape and arrangement of the component materials is dynamically controllable so as to affect a mechanical property of the meta-material.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of controlling a mechanical property for a meta-material, the meta-material comprising a deformable structure adapted to move or deform in a first lateral direction and a set of activation elements coupled to the deformable structure, the method comprising: activating at least one activation element from a first activation state to a second activation state, wherein the second activation state includes an electrostatic clamp that prevents relative motion along said first lateral direction in the deformable structure between two activation elements that are both mechanically coupled to the deformable structure and that are participating in the electrostatic clamp, up to a friction force along said first lateral direction, said friction forced being substantially perpendicular to and caused by an electrostatic force exerted between the two activation elements participating in the electrostatic clamp, and wherein the meta-material includes a first value for the mechanical property when the at least one activation element is in the first activation state and the meta-material includes a second value for the mechanical property when the at least one activation element has been activated to the second activation state. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein activating the at least one activation element comprises applying an electrostatic clamping voltage to the least one activation element. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the set of activation elements is mechanically redundant. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the electrostatic clamping voltage includes an AC signal. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the mechanical property is one of: toughness, elastic modulus, stiffness, damping, shape, and resilience. 6. The method of claim 1 further comprising activating the at least one activation element to a third activation state and the meta-material includes a third value for the mechanical property when the at least one activation element is in the third activation state. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein each activation element at least partially laterally overlaps an adjacent activation element. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein a surface of the deformable structure is not flat. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the second state includes a different connectivity between the activation elements than a connectivity between the activation elements in the first state. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the meta-material includes a different shape when the at least one activation element has been activated to the second activation state than a shape for the meta-material when the at least one activation element is in the first state. 11. A method of varying stiffness using a meta-material that comprises a deformable structure and a set of activation elements coupled to the deformable structure, the method comprising: activating at least one activation element from a first activation state to a second activation state, wherein the at least one activation element includes a modulus of elasticity greater than that of the deformable structure, wherein the second activation state includes an electrostatic clamp that prevents relative motion in the deformable or reconfigurable structure, between two activation elements that are both mechanically coupled to the deformable or reconfigurable structure and that are participating in the electrostatic clamp, up to a friction force caused by an electrostatic force exerted between the two activation elements participating in the electrostatic clamp, wherein the meta-material includes a first stiffness when the at least one activation element is in the first activation state and the meta-material includes a second stiffness when the at least one activation element has been activated to the second activation state, and wherein the third stiffness causes the meta-material to match a resonance frequency for an object that includes the meta-material. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising de-activating the at least one activation element from the second activation state to the first activation state. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the de-activation occurs before overcoming one of a) the friction force for the at least one activation element, or b) the modulus of elasticity for the at least one activation element. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising re-activating the at least one activation element from the first activation state to the second activation state. 15. The method of claim 11 further comprising activating a different number of activation elements from the first activation state to the second activation state so the meta-material includes a third stiffness when the different number of activation elements has been activated to the second activation state. 16. The method of claim 11 wherein the third stiffness is less than second stiffness and greater than the first stiffness. 17. A method of varying stiffness using a meta-material that comprises a deformable structure and a set of activation elements coupled to the deformable structure, the method comprising: activating at least one activation element from a first activation state to a second activation state, wherein the at least one activation element includes a modulus of elasticity greater than that of the deformable structure, wherein the second activation state includes an electrostatic clamp that prevents relative motion in the deformable or reconfigurable structure, between two activation elements that are both mechanically coupled to the deformable or reconfigurable structure and that are participating in the electrostatic clamp, up to a friction force caused by an electrostatic force exerted between the two activation elements participating in the electrostatic clamp, wherein the meta-material includes a first stiffness when the at least one activation element is in the first activation state and the meta-material includes a second stiffness when the at least one activation element has been activated to the second activation state, and wherein the third stiffness causes an object that includes the meta-material to avoid a resonance frequency for an object that would be met without the stiffness change. 18. The method of claim 11 wherein activating the at least one activation element comprises applying an electrostatic clamping voltage to the least one activation element. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the set of activation elements is mechanically redundant. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the electrostatic clamping voltage includes an AC signal. 21. The method of claim 11 wherein each activation element at least partially laterally overlaps an adjacent activation element. 22. The method of claim 11 wherein the second state includes a different connectivity between the activation elements than a connectivity between the activation elements in the first state. 23. The method of claim 11 wherein the meta-material includes a different shape when the at least one activation element has been activated to the second activation state than a shape for the meta-material when the at least one activation element is in the first state. 24. The method of claim 11 wherein the first stiffness is less than about 10 MPa and the second stiffness is greater than about 100 MPa. 