A gage and gripper assembly for directly measuring characteristics of a workpiece. The assembly is adapted to be attached to a transfer mechanism, such as a robot arm, and includes a head having a gripper and a gage. The gripper is adapted to lift and hold the workpiece using jaws or other mechanisms, and the gage is adapted to directly measure characteristics of the workpiece while the workpiece is held by the gripper.
Claims We claim: 1. A gage and gripper assembly of a transfer mechanism for directly measuring a dimension of a workpiece, the assembly comprising: a base having portions to attach the assembly to the transfer mechanism; a head supported by the base and moveable by the transfer mechanism between first and second stations, the head including a gripper and a gage, the gripper having portions actuatable to hold and secure the workpiece as the workpiece is moved by the transfer assembly between the first and second stations, the gripper being movable with the head between the first and second stations, and the gage positioned in the head and being movable with the head between the first and second stations, the gage being configured to directly measure a dimension of the workpiece while the workpiece is held by the gripper and in transit between the first and second stations, the dimension being one of a diameter of the workpiece, a length of the work and a width of the workpiece. 2. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 1 wherein the gage is adapted to measure an outside diameter of the workpiece. 3. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 1 wherein the gage is adapted to measure an inside diameter of the workpiece. 4. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 1 wherein the gage is adapted to measure a length of the workpiece. 5. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 1 wherein the gripper has at least one moveable jaw adapted to grip and hold the workpiece. 6. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 1 wherein the workpiece has a center portion and end portions transverse to the center portion and the gripper is adapted to engage the center portion of the workpiece. 7. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 6 wherein the gripper is adapted to engage the workpiece by the end portions. 8. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 6 wherein the gage is incorporated into the at least one moveable jaw. 9. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 6 wherein the gage is a chordal gage. 10. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 6 wherein the gage is mounted in the jaw and is moveable with respect to the jaw and is generally biased toward the workpiece. 11. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 10 wherein the bias is provided by a spring. 12. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 10 wherein the gage is adapted to engage and measure the workpiece while the workpiece is gripped by the gripper and being moved from a first work station to a second work station without acceleration. 13. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 10 wherein the gage is adapted to engage and measure the workpiece while the workpiece is gripped by the gripper and being moved from a first work station to a second work station under acceleration. 14. The gage and gripper assembly of claim 10 wherein the gage is adapted to engage and measure the workpiece while the workpiece is gripped by the gripper and being moved from a first work station to a second work station under deceleration. 15. A method of measuring a dimension of a workpiece, the method comprising: lifting a workpiece from a first station using a gage and gripper assembly supported by a base on a transfer mechanism and moving the workpiece via the gage and gripper assembly to a next station while the workpiece is being held by the gage and gripper assembly; measuring a dimension of the workpiece using a gage also carried with the gage and gripper assembly, the measuring step occurring while the workpiece is held by the gage and gripper assembly after being lifted at the first station and before arriving at the next station. 16. The method of measuring a dimension of a workpiece of claim 15 further comprising the step of comparing the measured value of the dimension with an expected value for the dimension. 17. The method of measuring a dimension of a workpiece of claim 15 further comprising in response to the comparison, rejecting the workpiece if the measured value fails to match the expected value and accepting the workpiece if the measured value conforms with the expected value. 18. The method of measuring a dimension of a workpiece of claim 17 the step of rejecting the workpiece includes the step of reworking the workpiece. 19. The method of measuring a dimension of a workpiece of claim 17 wherein the step of rejecting the workpiece includes delivering the workpiece to the second station which is a scrap station. 20. The method of measuring a dimension of a workpiece of claim 15 further comprising accepting the workpiece by moving it to a second work station using the transfer mechanism and further processing the workpiece at the second station. 21. The method of measuring a dimension of a workpiece of claim 15 wherein the step of measuring takes place while the workpiece is being moved to the second station. 22. The method of measuring a dimension of a workpiece of claim 21 wherein the step of measuring is performed while the workpiece is being moved and acceleration of the workpiece is substantially zero. 23. The method of measuring a dimension of a workpiece of claim 21 wherein the step of measuring is performed while the workpiece is being moved and is under acceleration. 24. The method of measuring a dimension of a workpiece of claim 21 wherein the step of measuring is performed while the workpiece is being moved and under deceleration. 25. The method of measuring a dimension of a workpiece of claim 15 wherein the step of measuring takes place while the workpiece is stationary. 26. The method of claim 15 further comprising the step of sending size control adjustment signals to a metal cutting machine based on the measured dimension. 