A discovery system employing a neural network, training within this system, that is stimulated to generate novel output patterns through various forms of perturbation applied to it, a critic neural network likewise capable of training in situ within this system, that learns to associate such novel patterns with their utility or value while triggering reinforcement learning of the more useful or valuable of these patterns within the former net. The device is capable of bootstrapping itself to progressively higher levels of adaptive or creative competence, starting from no learning whatsoever, through cumulative cycles of experimentation and learning. Optional feedback mechanisms between the latter and former self-learning artificial neural networks are used to accelerate the convergence of this system toward useful concepts or plans of action.
Claims I claim: 1. A self-learning, artificial neural network based-discovery device, comprising: a first self-learning artificial neural network capable of generating patterns when perturbed; means for subjecting said first self-learning artificial neural network to varying degrees of perturbation; a second self-learning artificial neural network associated with said first self-learning artificial neural network so as to receive said generated patterns therefrom; means for implementing said generated patterns of said first self-learning artificial neural network as a concept; means of evaluating an effect of said concept; means of triggering reinforcement learning within said first self-training artificial neural network upon any of said generated patterns leading to a positive effect; means of triggering reinforcement learning in said second self-learning artificial neural network so as to incorporate within said second network a relationship between at least one of said generated patterns of said first self-learning artificial neural network and said effect of said generated pattern. 2. The self-learning artificial neural network based-discovery device of claim 1, further comprising means for controlling the perturbations within said first artificial neural network on the basis of output patterns from said second artificial neural network. 3. The self-learning artificial neural network based-discovery device of claim 1, further comprising means of detraining at least one of said first and second self-learning artificial neural networks if said means of evaluating an effect of said concept indicates a negative effect. 4. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 1, wherein said second artificial neural network is operable to compare said input patterns and said generated patterns of said first self-learning artificial neural network. 5. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 1, wherein said second artificial neural network is a hetero-associative artificial neural network. 6. A self-learning, artificial neural network based-discovery device, comprising: a first artificial neural network portion capable of generating patterns; means for subjecting said first artificial neural network to varying degrees of perturbation; means for implementing at least one of said generated patterns of said first self-learning artificial neural network as a concept; means of evaluating an effect of said concept; means of triggering reinforcement learning within said first self-training artificial neural network of one of said generated patterns leading to a positive effect. 7. The self-learning artificial neural network based-discovery device of claim 6, further comprising means of detraining said first self-learning artificial neural networks if said means of evaluating an effect of said concept indicates a negative effect. 8. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, wherein said means for evaluating said concept comprises human evaluation of said generated patterns of said first artificial neural network. 9. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, wherein said means for evaluating said concept comprises at least one sensor. 10. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 9, wherein said sensor is a sonar device. 11. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 9, wherein said sensor is a camera. 12. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, wherein said means of evaluating said effect of said concept is governed by an at least partially random process. 13. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, wherein said means of evaluating said effect of said concept is governed by one of the group consisting of a rule-based algorithm and a model-based algorithm. 14. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 13, wherein said algorithm is operable to compare said input patterns and said generated patterns of said first artificial neural network. 15. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, further comprising at least a second self-learning artificial neural network associated with the first artificial neural network so as to receive generated patterns from said first network; means of triggering reinforcement learning in said second self-learning artificial neural network so as to incorporate within said second network a relationship between at least one of said generated patterns of said first self-learning artificial neural network and said effect of said generated pattern. 16. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, further comprising at least one rule-based algorithm associated with said first artificial neural network so as to receive said generated patterns from said first artificial neural network. 17. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, wherein said means of evaluating said effect of said concept is a function of at least one objective criterion. 18. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, wherein said means of evaluating said effect of said concept is a function of at least one subjective criterion. 19. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, wherein said device is incorporated in a robotic mechanism. 20. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, wherein said device is incorporated in a virtual robotic system. 21. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, wherein said device is incorporated in a simulated robotic system. 22. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, wherein said device is incorporated in a machine vision system. 23. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 6, wherein said first artificial neural network is an auto-associative artificial neural network. 24. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 23, wherein said first artificial neural network is operable as a group membership filter. 25. A self-learning, artificial neural network based-discovery device, comprising: an array of self-learning artificial neural networks, each of said artificial neural networks capable of generating patterns in response to varying degrees of perturbation to it; means for subjecting at least one of said self-learning artificial neural networks to varying degrees of perturbation; wherein at least a first, perturbed, self-learning artificial neural network is associated with at least a second of said self-learning artificial neural networks such that said second of said self-learning artificial neural networks receives generated patterns from said first perturbed artificial neural network; means for implementing said generated patterns of at least said first perturbed self-learning artificial neural network as a concept; means of evaluating an effect of said concept; means of triggering reinforcement learning within at least said first perturbed, self-training artificial neural networks upon said generated patterns leading to a positive effect; means of triggering reinforcement learning in at least said second self-learning artificial neural network so as to incorporate within said second network a relationship between at least one of said generated patterns of said first, perturbed, self-learning artificial neural network and said effect of said generated pattern. 26. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 25, wherein said generated pattern is a combination of patterns generated by said first perturbed artificial network and at least a second, perturbed, self-learning artificial neural network. 27. A self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device, specific to path planning, comprising: a first self-learning artificial neural network capable of producing generated patterns in response to perturbations applied to said first network and wherein said generated patterns represent potential paths through an environment; means for subjecting said first self-learning artificial neural network to varying degrees of perturbation; means for calculating a cost associated with said potential paths; means for providing environmental inputs to said means for calculating a cost, wherein said means for calculating uses said environmental inputs to generate said cost; and wherein said means for calculating a cost determines a minimal cost path through said environment from said potential paths generated by said perturbed first neural network. 28. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 27, wherein said means for calculating comprises a second artificial neural network. 29. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 27, wherein said means for calculating comprises a rule-based algorithm. 30. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 27, wherein said paths having a low cost are reabsorbed within said first self-training artificial neural network by successive training. 31. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 27, further comprising means of triggering reinforcement learning within said first self-training artificial neural network of one of said potential paths based upon said cost of said potential path. 32. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 27, wherein magnitudes of said perturbations are based on said cost. 33. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based device of claim 27, wherein said environmental inputs comprise identification of low and high motion impedance areas and wherein said means for calculating is further operative to calculate a navigation field comprising a map of said low and high motion impedance areas. 34. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based device of claim 27, wherein said first self-learning artificial neural network is interrogated via various degrees of perturbation to generate its dominant memories, representing least cost paths through the environment. 35. The self-learning artificial neural network based device of claim 27, wherein said first self-learning artificial neural network comprises a group membership filter. 36. An artificial neural network-based discovery device, comprising: a first artificial neural network capable of generating patterns in response to perturbations applied to said first network and wherein said generated patterns represent potential plans of action; means for subjecting said first artificial neural network to varying degrees of perturbation; means for calculating a cost associated with said potential plans of action; means for providing environmental inputs to said means for calculating a cost, wherein said means for calculating uses said environmental inputs to generate said cost; and wherein said means for calculating a cost determines a minimal cost plan of action from said potential plans of action generated by said perturbed first neural network. 37. The artificial neural network-based device of claim 36, wherein said means for calculating is further operative to calculate a navigation field based on said costs of said potential plans of action. 38. The artificial neural network-based device of claim 36, wherein said first artificial neural network is a self-learning, artificial neural network. 39. A self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device, comprising: a first, self-learning artificial neural network capable of generating patterns in response to perturbations applied to said first network; means for subjecting said first self-learning artificial neural network to varying degrees of perturbation; means of determining a value of said generated patterns; and means of triggering reinforcement learning within said first self-training artificial neural network of at least one of said generated patterns having a desired value. 40. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 39, further comprising means for interrogating said first artificial neural network through the application of perturbations so as to reconstruct memories of said generated patterns after at least one cycle of reinforcement learning within said first artificial neural network. 41. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 39, further comprising means for subjecting said first self-learning artificial neural network to varying degrees of perturbation to produce degraded memories of said generated patterns after at least one cycle of reinforcement learning within the first artificial neural network. 42. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 41, wherein said degraded memories represent derivative concepts from previously absorbed concepts through at least one cycle of reinforcement learning. 43. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 39, wherein said means for evaluating comprises a second artificial neural network so as to receive said generated patterns from said first artificial neural network. 44. The self-learning, artificial neural network-based discovery device of claim 39, wherein said means for evaluating comprises a rule-based algorithm. 45. A self-learning, artificial neural network-based device for object detection, comprising: means for providing sensor perspectives of an environment; means to move an attention window, wherein each position of said attention window represents at least one of said sensor perspectives of said environment; and a first self-learning artificial neural network whose input patterns consist of content of said sensor perspectives and operative to generate a recognition metric indicating recognition of said content of said sensor perspectives. 46. The self-learning, artificial neural network device of claim 45, wherein said first self-learning artificial neural network learns the contents of the attention window only when the attention window encounters a portion of a to-be-sought object. 47. The self-learning, artificial neural network device of claim 46, wherein said object is distinguished from a surrounding environment by deliberately making said surrounding environment neutral. 48. The self-learning, artificial neural network device of claim 46, wherein said object is distinguished from a surrounding environment by masking said object from said surrounding environment. 49. The self-learning, artificial neural network device of claim 45, wherein said means to move an attention window comprises a second, self-learning, auto-associative, artificial, neural network operable to run recurrently with varying degrees of perturbation; and further comprising means for adjusting perturbations to said second artificial neural network based upon said recognition metric generated by said first artificial neural network. 50. The self-learning, artificial neural network device of claim 49, wherein reinforcement learning takes place in said second artificial neural network when said first network identifies at least a portion of said content of said sensor perspectives, said reinforcement learning relating to a position of said sensor perspective associated with said identified portion of said content. 51. The self-learning, artificial neural network device of claim 50, wherein perturbations are used to interrogate said second network for a dominant memory of said second network after said reinforcement learning has occurred. 52. The self-learning, artificial neural network device of claim 45, wherein said means to move said attention window comprises one of the group consisting of a raster algorithm and a linear scanning algorithm. 53. An artificial neural network-based device, comprising: a first, auto-associative, artificial neural network trained upon patterns having the commonality of belonging to a particular group or genre; a comparator portion, said comparator portion being operative to compare patterns supplied to said first network with patterns generated by said first network in order to produce a reconstruction error associated with said first artificial neural network; and wherein said reconstruction error represents a recognition metric of patterns belonging to said group or genre. 54. An artificial neural-network based navigational field generation system, comprising: a first artificial neural network; means for providing environmental sensor inputs to said first artificial neural network; and wherein said first network is operative to generate a navigational field comprising field values at coordinates within said environment. 