A Statechart is generated automatically from a set of goals for completion of a data model. A set of states is generated corresponding to completion states of the data model, an initial pseudo-state and a final state. Transitions are generated from the initial pseudo-state to an empty state of the set of states and between each state and its subset states. Outgoing transitions are generated from any state that satisfies at least one goal of the set of goals and a transition is generated from that state to the final state. The resulting Statechart may be used to manage an interactive dialog to complete a data model having a set of data fields.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for managing an interactive dialog with a user, the method comprising: generating a Statechart from a plurality of goals, the generating comprising: generating a set of states corresponding to completion states of a data model comprising a set of data fields; generating an initial pseudo-state and a final state; generating a transition from the initial pseudo-state to an empty state of the set of states; generating transitions between pairs of states of the set of states; removing outgoing transitions from any state of the set of states that satisfies at least one of the goals; and generating transitions to the final state from any state of the set of states that satisfies at least one of the goals; and conducting the interactive dialog with the user in an attempt to complete the data model, the conducting comprising using the Statechart to manage the interactive dialog. 2. A method in accordance with claim 1 wherein generating a Statechart further comprises repeating the elements: generating an embedded Statechart for any non-atomic state in the set of states; and adding states of the embedded Statechart to the set of states, until Statecharts have been generated for all non-atomic states in the set of states. 3. A method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising providing the Statechart to a designer for modification. 4. A computer-readable medium containing instructions for a method for managing an interactive dialog with a user, the method comprising: generating a Statechart from a plurality of goals, the generating comprising: generating a set of states corresponding to completion states of a data model comprising a set of data fields; generating an initial pseudo-state and a final state; generating a transition from the initial pseudo-state to an empty state of the set of states; generating transitions between pairs of states of the set of states; removing outgoing transitions from any state of the set of states that satisfies at least one of the goals; and generating transitions to the final state from any state of the set of states that satisfies at least one of the goals; and conducting the interactive dialog with the user in an attempt to complete the data model, the conducting comprising using the Statechart to manage the interactive dialog. 