A robotized laparoscopic system capable of executing commands of an operating surgeon is provided. The laparoscopic system includes a cylindrical tube inserted through an incision. A small-sized camera is attached to one end of the tube to capture the images of the surgical site. A bending portion is adapted to bend the tip of the tube in any direction. A driving unit controls a bending direction and a bending angle of the bending portion. A movement device moves the tube forward or backward in a longitudinal direction. A control unit independently controls the driving unit and the movement device. An input unit receives commands from the surgeon. A conversion unit converts the command input from the surgeon into digital signals and transmits the digital signals to the control unit. A support unit supports the weight of the movement device by being connected to an operating table or the floor.
Claims We claim: 1. A robotized laparoscopic system for a surgery, comprising: a cylindrical tube adapted to be inserted through an incision on abdominal walls and having a tip on one end; a bending portion for connecting the cylindrical tube and the tip and for changing a bending direction of the tip; a driving unit for controlling the bending direction and a bending angle of the bending portion; a movement device for moving the tube in a longitudinal direction; and a control unit for controlling the driving unit and the movement device independently; wherein the control unit calculates a rotation angle .theta..sub.2-.theta..sub.1 of the bending portion during a longitudinal displacement D.sub.2-D.sub.1 of the movement device using the following Equations, to compensate for the change in viewing angle by either enlargement or reduction command: .theta..times..times..times..theta..times..times..times..theta..theta..ti- mes..times..times..theta..times..times..times..theta..theta..times..times.- .times..theta..times..times..times..theta..theta..times..times..times..the- ta..times..times..times..theta. ##EQU00002## where d is a length of the bending portion, I.sub.0 is a distance between a front surface of the tube and the bending portion, .theta..sub.1 is a bending angle of the bending portion before moving, I.sub.1 is a distance between an end of the tube and a surgical site of interest before moving, D.sub.1 is a position of the tube before moving, .theta..sub.2 is a bending angle of the bending portion after moving, I.sub.2 is a distance between the tip of the tube and the surgical site after moving, and D.sub.2 is a position of the tube after moving. 