A computer assisted, minimally invasive method and apparatus for surgically removing abnormal tissue from a patient, for example, from a breast, are disclosed. The method involves imaging of the breast to locate the abnormal tissue, and determining a volume encapsulating the abnormal tissue and including a margin of healthy tissue. Based on the volume, a sequence of movements of a surgical instrument for tissue removal device is planned, so as to predictably excise the desired volume of tissue.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer-assisted method of removing abnormal tissue from a region of interest by way of a reduced number of incisions, said method comprising: generating a three-dimensional (3-D) map of said region of interest comprising abnormal tissue; determining a tissue volume, based on said 3-D map, said tissue volume including the abnormal tissue and an adjacent margin of healthy tissue; determining, based on said tissue volume, at a computing device a surgical plan including at least one incision point and a series of associated excision points associated with said at least one incision point; and controlling movement of a surgical instrument used to excise tissue, to sequentially move to each of said at least one incision point and to each of its associated excision points and excise tissue, resulting in removal of said tissue volume; wherein at least one of said at least one incision point is associated with two or more excision points. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said region of interest forms part of a breast. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising restraining said breast. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining a tissue volume comprises determining a volume having a regular geometric shape. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said regular geometric shape comprises a cylinder. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said incision point is along a central axis of said cylinder. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said series of excision points comprises a plurality of axial positions along said central axis. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said series of excision points comprise a plurality of angular positions associated with each of said axial positions. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein a number of angular positions associated with each of said axial positions depends on a diameter of said cylinder. 10. The method of claim 7, wherein at least some of said series of excision points are at the same axial position along said central axis, and the tissue is assumed to collapse into a void created by said excisions. 11. The method of claim 6, wherein said surgical instrument comprises a vacuum assisted biopsy device. 12. The method of claim 5, wherein said incision point is along an axis parallel to a central axis of said cylinder, proximate an edge of said cylinder. 13. The method of claim 5, further comprising, repeating said generating, and said determining a tissue volume. 14. The method of claim 4, wherein said regular geometric shape comprises a rectangular prism. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said incision point is along an axis parallel to a central axis of said rectangular prism. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein said generating comprises generating said 3-D map from a plurality of 2-D images of said region of interest. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining a tissue volume comprising using edge detection of said 3-D map to locate boundaries of the abnormal tissue. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said tissue volume is approximated as a cylinder encapsulating the abnormal tissue and a margin of normal tissue on all edges of the abnormal tissue. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the abnormal tissue is a tumour. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein said series of excision points is determined assuming the tissue collapses into a void created by said excisions. 21. An apparatus for tissue removal comprising: a robotic imaging arm for holding and moving an imaging probe; a robotic surgical arm for holding and moving a surgical instrument suitable for tissue removal; a computing device for controlling movements of said robotic imaging arm, said imaging probe, said robotic surgical arm and said surgical instrument, said computing device operable to generate a three-dimensional (3-D) map of a region of interest in a patient, said region of interest comprising abnormal tissue; determine a tissue volume, based on said map, said tissue volume including the abnormal tissue and an adjacent margin of healthy tissue; determine a set of coordinates including an incision point and a series of at least two excision points associated with said incision point to move a tissue removal device to said incision point and from said incision point to said series of excision points and excise tissue to remove said volume, resulting in removal of the abnormal tissue using a reduced number of incision points. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said surgical instrument is a vacuum assisted biopsy device. 23. The apparatus of claim 22, further comprising a holder for restraining movement of tissue comprising the abnormal tissue. 24. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein said computing device further determines said tissue volume as a regular geometric shape. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein said regular geometric shape comprises a cylinder. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said computing device determines said incision point along a central axis of said cylinder. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein said computing device determines said series of excision points as a plurality of axial positions along said central axis. 28. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein said regular geometric shape comprises a rectangular prism. 29. A computer readable medium storing processor executable instructions which, when executed by a processor of a control system of a surgical apparatus comprising a robotic imaging arm for holding and moving an imaging probe; and a robotic surgical arm for holding and moving a surgical instrument, adapt said control system to: generate a three-dimensional (3-D) map of the tissue comprising abnormal tissue; determine a tissue volume in a patient, based on said map, said tissue volume including abnormal tissue and an adjacent margin of healthy tissue; determine one or more incision points and a series of excision points associated with said incision points, based on said tissue volume to move a surgical instrument sequentially to said incision point and said series of excision points and excise tissue to remove said volume, resulting in removal of the abnormal tissue; wherein at least one of said incision points is associated with two or more excision points. 30. A computer-assisted method of removing abnormal tissue from a region of interest by way of a reduced number of incisions, said method comprising: generating a three-dimensional (3-D) map of said region of interest comprising abnormal tissue; determining a tissue volume, based on said 3-D map, said tissue volume including the abnormal tissue and an adjacent margin of healthy tissue; determining, based on said tissue volume, at a computing device at least one incision point and a series of associated excision points associated with said at least one incision point; controlling movement of a surgical instrument used to excise tissue, to sequentially move to each of said at least one incision point and to each of its associated excision points and excising tissue, resulting in removal of said tissue volume; wherein at least some of said series of excision points are at the same axial position along an axis through one of said at least one incision point, and said determining comprises accounting for the collapse of tissue into a void created by said excising. 