An inverted microplate for conducting a thermocycled amplification reaction of polynucleotide. The microplate can comprise a main body having a first and second surfaces and a plurality of wells disposed in the first surface. Each of the plurality of wells can comprise a well opening and a well bottom and be sized to receive an assay. A sealing cover can be operably coupled to the first surface of the main body to seal the well openings of the plurality of wells when the main body is inverted so that the assay is in contact with the sealing covering cover.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A microplate for conducting a thermocycled amplification reaction of polynucleotide, said microplate comprising: a main body having a first and second surfaces; a plurality of wells disposed in said first surface, each of said plurality of wells having a well opening and a well bottom and sized to receive an assay; and a sealing cover operably coupled to said first surface of said main body, said sealing cover substantially sealing said well openings of said plurality of wells contain said assay and said main body is inverted so that said assay is in contact with said sealing cover. 2. The microplate according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of wells includes at least about 96 wells. 3. The microplate according to claim 2 wherein said plurality of wells includes at least about 6144 wells. 4. The microplate according to claim 3 wherein said plurality of wells includes at least about 24,576 wells. 5. The microplate according to claim 3 wherein each of said plurality of wells has a well pitch of about 0.75 mm to about 1.50 mm. 6. The microplate according to claim 1 wherein said main body comprises a thermally conductive plastic. 7. The microplate according to claim 6 wherein said main body comprises a carbon filler. 8. The microplate according to claim 7 wherein said main body is further made of polypropylene. 9. The microplate according to claim 6 wherein said thermally conductive plastic comprises polypropylene, polystyrene, polyethylene, polyethyleneterephthalate, styrene, acrylonitrile, cyclic polyolefin, syndiotactic polystyrene, polycarbonate, liquid crystal polymer, or any combination thereof. 10. The microplate according to claim 1, further comprising: an alignment feature formed on said main body. 11. The microplate according to claim 10 wherein said alignment feature comprises a convex feature formed on one of said main body and said sealing cover, said convex feature operable to engage and align with a concave feature formed on the other of said main body and said sealing cover. 12. The microplate according to claim 11 wherein said concave feature is selected from the group consisting essentially of pins, ridges, snaps, and screws. 13. The microplate according to claim 10 wherein said alignment feature comprises a keyed corner on said main body. 14. The microplate according to claim 1, further comprising: at least one primer and probe disposed in at least one of said plurality of wells. 15. The microplate according to claim 14 wherein said at least one primer and probe are coated to said at least one of said plurality of wells. 16. The microplate according to claim 15, further comprising: a buffer coated to said at least one of said plurality of wells. 17. The microplate according to claim 1 wherein said main body includes a marking indicia. 18. The microplate according to claim 17 wherein said marking indicia is a barcode. 19. The microplate according to claim 1 wherein said sealing cover includes a pressure sensitive adhesive. 20. The microplate according to claim 19 wherein said pressure sensitive adhesive is a silicone adhesive having low fluorescence. 21. The microplate according to claim 1 wherein said well bottom is substantially hemispherical in shape. 22. The microplate according to claim 1 wherein said plurality of wells is disposed in an array defined by at least about 64 columns and at least 96 rows of wells. 23. The microplate according to claim 1 wherein said first surface being about 127 mm in a first dimension and about 85 mm in a second dimension. 24. The microplate according to claim 1 wherein said cover is substantially rigid. 25. The microplate according to claim 1 wherein said cover is optically transparent. 26. The microplate according to claim 1 wherein said cover comprises a material selected from the group consisting essentially of glass, silicon, quartz, nylon, polystyrene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polytetrafluoroethylene, polycarbonate, polycyclic olefin, cellulose acetate, metal and combinations thereof. 27. The microplate according to claim 1 wherein said cover comprises a thermally conductive material. 28. The microplate according to claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of primers and probes disposed in at least one of said plurality of wells to perform multiplex PCR. 29. A microplate for conducting a thermocycled amplification reaction of polynucleotide in a liquid sample, said microplate comprising: a main body having first and second surfaces; a plurality of wells disposed in said first surface, each of said plurality of wells having a well opening and a well bottom, each of said plurality of wells being sized to receive the liquid sample; and a cover having a cover surface, said cover surface being disposed adjacent to said first surface of said main body to cover said well opening of each of said plurality of wells, wherein said main body is oriented so that said liquid is in contact with said cover surface. 30. The microplate according to claim 29, further comprising: a sealing cover operably disposed between said cover and said first surface. 31. The microplate according to claim 29, further comprising: at least one primer and probe disposed in at least one of said plurality of wells. 32. The microplate according to claim 29, further comprising: a plurality of primers and probes disposed in at least one of said plurality of wells to perform multiplex PCR. 33. The microplate according to claim 29, further comprising: a forward PCR primer, a reverse PCR primer, a FAM labeled MGB quenched, a PCR probe and a buffer disposed in at least one of said plurality of wells. 34. The microplate according to claim 29, further comprising: a genomic polynucleotides mixture disposed in at least one of said plurality of wells. 35. The microplate according to claim 34 wherein said genomic polynucleotides mixture is from a mammal. 36. The microplate according to claim 25 wherein said mammal is a human. 37. The microplate according to claim 34 wherein said genomic polynucleotides mixture is from a plant. 38. The microplate according to claim 34 wherein said genomic polynucleotides mixture is from a bacterium. 39. The microplate according to claim 34 wherein said genomic polynucleotides mixture is from a species selected from the group consisting essentially of human, mouse, rat, yeast, primate, bacteria, insect, dog, fungus, and virus species. 40. The microplate according to claim 29 wherein said main body comprises a thermally conductive plastic. 41. The microplate according to claim 40 wherein said main body comprises a carbon filler. 42. The microplate according to claim 41 wherein said main body is further made of polypropylene. 43. The microplate according to claim 40 wherein said thermally conductive plastic includes a polymer selected from the group consisting essentially of polypropylene, polystyrene, polyethylene, polyethyleneterephthalate, styrene, acrylonitrile, cyclic polyolefin in, syndiotactic polystyrene, polycarbonate, liquid crystal polymer, and mixtures thereof. 44. The microplate according to claim 29 wherein said main body includes a marking indicia. 45. The microplate according to claim 29, further comprising: an alignment feature formed on said main body. 46. The microplate according to claim 29 wherein said plurality of wells includes at least about 6144 wells. 47. The microplate according to claim 29 wherein said plurality of wells includes at least about 24,576 wells. 48. The microplate according to claim 29 wherein each of said plurality of wells has a well pitch of about 0.75 mm to about 1.50 mm. 49. The microplate according to claim 29 wherein said plurality of wells is disposed in an array defined by at least about 64 columns and at least 96 rows of wells. 50. The microplate according to claim 29 wherein said first surface being about 127 mm in a first dimension and about 85 mm in a second dimension. 51. The microplate according to claim 29 wherein said cover is optically transparent. 52. The microplate according to claim 29 wherein said cover comprises a material selected from the group consisting essentially of glass, silicon, quartz, nylon, polystyrene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polytetrafluoroethylene, polycarbonate, polycyclic olefin, cellulose acetate, metal and combinations thereof. 53. A method for performing thermocycling amplification of a liquid polynucleotide sample, said method comprising: (a) loading a quantity of said liquid polynucleotide sample into a microplate, said microplate having a main body having a first and second surfaces, and a plurality of wells disposed in said first surface, each of said plurality of wells having a well opening and a well bottom, each of said plurality of wells being sized to receive the liquid polynucleotide sample; (b) covering said main body with a cover, a surface of said cover being disposed adjacent to said first surface of said microplate so as to cover said well openings of said plurality of wells; (c) inverting said main body such that said liquid polynucleotide sample contacts said surface of said cover; and (d) thermocycling said main body to effect amplification of the polynucleotides in said liquid polynucleotide sample. 54. The method according to claim 53, further comprising: centrifuging said main body after said inverting said main body. 55. The method according to claim 54 wherein said liquid polynucleotide sample is operable to emit an optical signal during an amplification reaction, said thermocycling said main body further comprises: (i) placing said inverted main body in contact with a thermal device such that said second surface of said main body is in contact with said thermal device; (ii) thermocycling said main body to effect said amplification of the polynucleotides in said liquid polynucleotide sample; and (ii) detecting said optical signal. 56. The microplate according to claim 29 wherein said cover is a sealing cover. 57. A method of conducting amplification comprising: (a) loading a liquid polynucleotide sample into a well of a microplate; (b) covering said well of said microplate with a cover such that said cover fluidly seals said liquid polynucleotide sample within said well; (c) inverting said microplate such that said liquid polynucleotide sample contacts said cover; and (d) thermocycling said microplate to promote amplification of polynucleotides in said liquid polynucleotide sample. 58. The method according to claim 57 wherein said liquid polynucleotide sample is operable to emit an optical signal during an amplification reaction, said thermocycling said microplate further comprises: (i) placing said inverted microplate in contact with a thermal device; (ii) thermocycling said microplate to effect said amplification of said polynucleotides in said liquid polynucleotide sample; and (ii) detecting said optical signal. 59. The method according to claim 58 wherein said detecting said optical signal comprises: detecting said optical signal through said cover. 60. The method according to claim 58 wherein said detecting said optical signal comprises: detecting said optical signal through at least a portion of said microplate. 61. The method according to claim 57 further comprising: centrifuging said microplate after said inverting said microplate. 62. The method according to claim 57 wherein said loading a liquid polynucleotide sample into said well of said microplate comprises: loading a liquid polynucleotide sample having a plurality of primers and probes into said well of said microplate. 63. The method according to claim 57 further comprising: coating at least one of a primer and a probe to said well of said microplate. 64. The method according to claim 57 further comprising: coating a buffer to said well of said microplate. 65. The method according to claim 57 wherein said covering said well of said microplate with said cover comprises: covering said well of said microplate with a substantially rigid cover. 66. The method according to claim 57 eherein said covering said well of said microplate with said cover comprises: covering said well of said microplate with an optically transparent cover. 67. The method according to claim 57 wherein said covering said well of said microplate with said cover comprises: coupling said cover to said microplate using a pressure sensitive adhesive. 68. The method according to claim 57 wherein said covering said well of said microplate with said cover comprises: coupling said cover to said microplate using a silicone adhesive having low fluorescence. 69. The method according to claim 57 wherein said covering said well of said microplate with said cover comprises: covering said well of said microplate with a cover, a material of said cover being selected from the group consisting essentially of glass, silicon, quartz, nylon, polystyrene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polytetrafluoroethylene, polycarbonate, polycyclic olefin, cellulose acetate, metal and combinations thereof. 70. A method of conducting polymerase chain reaction analysis comprising: (a) loading an assay into a well of a microplate; (b) applying a cover to said well of said microplate such that said cover fluidly seals said assay within said well; (c) inverting said microplate such that said assay contacts said cover; and (d) thermocycling said microplate to promote amplification of said assay. 71. The method according to claim 70 wherein said assay is operable to emit an optical signal during an amplification reaction, said thermocycling said microplate further comprises: (i) placing said inverted microplate in contact with a thermal device; (ii) thermocycling said microplate to effect said amplification of said polynucleotides in said assay; and (ii) detecting said optical signal. 72. The method according to claim 71 wherein said detecting said optical signal comprises: detecting said optical signal through said cover. 73. The method according to claim 71 wherein said detecting said optical signal comprises: detecting said optical signal through at least a portion of said microplate. 74. The method according to claim 70, further comprising: centrifuging said microplate after said inverting said microplate. 75. The method according to claim 70 wherein said loading a assay into said well of said microplate comprises: loading a assay having a plurality of primers and probes into said well of said microplate. 76. The method according to claim 70, further comprising: coating at least one of a primer and a probe to said well of said microplate. 77. The method according to claim 70, further comprising: coating a buffer to said well of said microplate. 78. The method according to claim 70 wherein said covering said well of said microplate with said cover comprises: covering said well of said microplate with a substantially rigid cover. 79. The method according to claim 70 wherein said covering said well of said microplate with said cover comprises: covering said well of said microplate with an optically transparent cover. 80. The method according to claim 70 wherein said covering said well of said microplate with said cover comprises: coupling said cover to said microplate using a pressure sensitive adhesive. 81. The method according to claim 70 wherein said covering said well of said microplate with said cover comprises: coupling said cover to said microplate using a silicone adhesive having low fluorescence. 82. The method according to claim 70 wherein said covering said well of said microplate with said cover comprises: covering said well of said microplate with a cover, a material of said cover being selected from the group consisting essentially of glass, silicon, quartz, nylon, polystyrene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polytetrafluoroethylene, polycarbonate, polycyclic olefin, cellulose acetate, metal and combinations thereof. 83. A microplate comprising: a main body; a plurality of wells disposed in said main body, said plurality of wells being sized to receive an assay; and a cover operably coupled to said main body, said cover substantially sealing at least one of said plurality of wells when said plurality of wells contain said assay and said main body is inverted so that said assay is in contact with said sealing covering cover. 84. The microplate according to claim 83 further comprising: at least one primer and probe disposed in at least one of said plurality of wells. 85. The microplate according to claim 84 wherein said at least one primer and probe are coated to said at least one of said plurality of wells. 86. The microplate according to claim 85 further comprising: a buffer coated to said at least one of said plurality of wells. 87. The microplate according to claim 83 wherein said sealing cover includes a pressure sensitive adhesive. 88. The microplate according to claim 87 wherein said pressure sensitive adhesive is a silicone adhesive having low fluorescence. 89. The microplate according to claim 83 wherein said main body comprises a thermally conductive plastic. 90. The microplate according to claim 83 wherein said cover is substantially rigid. 91. The microplate according to claim 83 wherein said cover is optically transparent. 92. The microplate according to claim 83 wherein said cover comprises a material selected from the group consisting essentially of glass, silicon, quartz, nylon, polystyrene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polytetrafluoroethylene, polycarbonate, polycyclic olefin, cellulose acetate, metal and combinations thereof. 