Methods and systems for monitoring semiconductor fabrication processes are provided. A system may include a stage configured to support a specimen and coupled to a measurement device. The measurement device may include an illumination system and a detection system. The illumination system and the detection system may be configured such that the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of the specimen. For example, the system may be configured to determine multiple properties of a specimen including, but not limited to, a presence of macro and micro defects. In this manner, a measurement device may perform multiple optical and/or non-optical metrology and/or inspection techniques.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining at least two properties of a specimen, comprising: disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the stage is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; directing energy toward a surface of the specimen using the illumination system; detecting energy propagating from the surface of the specimen using the detection system; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first property and a second property of the specimen, wherein the first property comprises a presence of macro defects on the specimen, and wherein the second property comprises a presence of micro defects on the specimen. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising laterally moving the stage during said directing energy and said detecting energy. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising rotatably moving the stage during said directing energy and said detecting energy. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising laterally and rotatably moving the stage during said directing energy and said detecting energy. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the illumination system comprises a single energy source. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the illumination system comprises more than one energy source. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the detection system comprises a single energy sensitive device. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the detection system comprises more than one energy sensitive devices. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said detecting energy comprises detecting dark field light propagating along a dark field path from the surface of the specimen. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a non-imaging scatterometer. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a scatterometer. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a spectroscopic scatterometer. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a reflectometer. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a spectroscopic reflectometer. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises an ellipsometer. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a spectroscopic ellipsometer. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a bright field imaging device. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a dark field imaging device. 19. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a bright field and dark field imaging device. 20. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a non-imaging bright field device. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a non-imaging dark field device. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a non-imaging bright field and dark field device. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises a double dark field device. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises at least a first measurement device and a second measurement device, and wherein the first and second measurement devices are selected from the group consisting of a non-imaging scatterometer, a scatterometer, a spectroscopic scatterometer, a reflectometer, a spectroscopic reflectometer, an, ellipsometer, a spectroscopic ellipsometer, a bright field imaging device, a dark field imaging device, a bright field and dark field imaging device, a non-imaging bright field device, a non-imaging dark field device, a non-imaging bright field and dark field device, a double dark field device, an X-ray reflectometer, an X-ray fluorescence device, an optical fluorescence device, an eddy current imaging device, and a relatively large spot e-beam device. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device further comprises at least a first measurement device and a second measurement device, and wherein optical elements of the first measurement device comprise optical elements of the second measurement device. 26. The method of claim 1, further comprising: directing energy toward a bottom surface of the specimen; and detecting energy propagating from the bottom surface of the specimen, wherein the first property further comprises a presence of macro defects on the bottom surface of the specimen. 27. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing the one or more output signals to determine a thickness of a copper film, wherein the macro defects or the micro defects comprise voids in the copper film. 28. The method of claim 1, wherein the macro defects comprise copper contamination on a back side of the specimen. 29. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing the one or more output signals to determine a third property of the specimen, wherein the third property is selected from the group consisting of a roughness of the specimen, a roughness of a layer on the specimen, and a roughness of a feature of the specimen. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the stage and the measurement device are further coupled to a process tool selected from the group consisting of a lithography tool, an atomic layer deposition tool, a cleaning tool, and an etch tool. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the one or more output signals to determine the first and second properties of the specimen comprises substantially simultaneously determining the first and second properties of the specimen. 32. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing energy toward multiple locations on the surface of the specimen substantially simultaneously and detecting energy propagating from the multiple locations substantially simultaneously such that one or more of the at least two properties of the specimen can be determined at the multiple locations substantially simultaneously. 33. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are further coupled to a process tool. 34. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the stage and the measurement device are arranged laterally proximate to the process tool. 35. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within the process tool. 36. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are further coupled to a process tool, and wherein the process tool is selected from the group consisting of a lithography tool, an etch tool, an ion implanter, a chemical-mechanical polishing tool, a deposition tool, a thermal tool, a cleaning tool, and a plating tool. 37. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are further coupled to a process tool, wherein the process tool comprises a wafer handler, and wherein disposing the specimen upon the stage comprises moving the specimen from the process tool to the stage using the wafer handler. 38. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are further coupled to a process tool, the method further comprising moving the specimen to the process tool subsequent to said directing and said detecting using the stage. 39. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are further coupled to a process tool, the method further comprising determining at least the two properties of the specimen while the specimen is waiting between process steps. 40. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are further coupled to a process tool, wherein the process tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during a process step, and wherein an upper surface of the support device is substantially parallel to an upper surface of the stage. 41. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are coupled to a process tool, wherein the process tool comprises a support device configured to support the specimen during a process step, and wherein an upper surface of the stage is angled with respect to an upper surface of the support device. 42. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within a measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is coupled to a process tool. 43. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within a measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is disposed within a process tool. 44. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within a measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged laterally proximate to a process chamber of a process tool. 45. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage and the measurement device are disposed within a measurement chamber, and wherein the measurement chamber is arranged vertically proximate to a process chamber of a process tool. 46. The method of claim 1, wherein disposing the specimen upon the stage comprises disposing the specimen upon a support device disposed within a process chamber of a process tool, and wherein the support device is configured to support the specimen during a process step. 47. The method of claim 46, further comprising performing said directing and said detecting during the process step. 48. The method of claim 46, further comprising obtaining a signature characterizing the process step, wherein the signature comprises at least one singularity representative of an end of the process step. 49. The method of claim 46, further comprising altering a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool in response to at least one of the determined properties using an in situ control technique. 50. The method of claim 1, further comprising moving the specimen from a first process chamber to a second process chamber using the stage, wherein the first process chamber and the second process chamber are disposed within a process tool. 51. The method of claim 50, further comprising performing said directing and said detecting during said moving the specimen from the first process chamber to the second process chamber. 52. The method of claim 1, further comprising comparing at least one of the first and second properties of the specimen and determined properties of a plurality of specimens. 53. The method of claim 1, further comprising comparing at least one of the first and second properties of the specimen to a predetermined range for the at least one of the first and second properties. 54. The method of claim 53, further comprising generating an output signal if the at least one of the first and second properties of the specimen is outside of the predetermined range. 55. The method of claim 1, further comprising altering a sampling frequency of the measurement device in response to at least one of the first and second properties of the specimen. 56. The method of claim 1, further comprising altering a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the measurement device in response to at least one of the first and second properties using a feedback control technique. 57. The method of claim 1, further comprising altering a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the measurement device in response to at least one of the first and second properties using a feedforward control technique. 58. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a database, wherein the database comprises the first and second properties of the specimen. 59. The method of claim 58, further comprising calibrating the measurement device using the database. 60. The method of claim 58, further comprising monitoring output signals generated by the measurement device using the database. 61. The method of claim 58, wherein the database further comprises first and second properties of a plurality of specimens. 62. The method of claim 61, wherein the first and second properties of the plurality of specimens are generated using a plurality of measurement devices. 63. The method of claim 62, further comprising calibrating the plurality of measurement devices using the database. 64. The method of claim 62, further comprising monitoring output signals generated by the plurality of measurement devices using the database. 65. The method of claim 1, wherein a stand alone system is coupled to the measurement device, the method further comprising calibrating the stand alone system with a calibration standard and calibrating the measurement device with the stand alone system. 66. The method of claim 1, wherein a stand alone system is coupled to the measurement device and at least one additional measurement device, the method further comprising calibrating the stand alone system with a calibration standard and calibrating the measurement device and at least the one additional measurement device with the stand alone system. 67. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining at least the two properties of the specimen at more than one position on the specimen, wherein the specimen comprises a wafer, the method further comprising altering at least one parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to at least one of the determined properties of the specimen at the more than one position on the specimen to reduce within wafer variation of at least one of the determined properties. 68. The method of claim 1, further comprising altering a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to at least one of the first and second properties of the specimen using a feedback control technique. 69. The method of claim 1, further comprising altering a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a process tool in response to at least one of the first and second properties of the specimen using a feedforward control technique. 70. The method of claim 1, further comprising monitoring a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to the process tool. 71. The method of claim 70, further comprising determining a relationship between at least one of the first and second properties and at least one of the monitored parameters. 72. The method of claim 71, further comprising altering a parameter of at least one of the one or more instruments in response to the relationship. 73. The method of claim 1, further comprising altering a parameter of one or more instruments coupled to a plurality of process tools in response to at least one of the first and second properties of the specimen. 74. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement device comprises non-optical components, and wherein said detecting energy comprises measuring a non-optical characteristic of the surface of the specimen. 75. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the one or more output signals comprises: at least partially processing the one or more output signals using a local processor, wherein the local processor is coupled to the measurement device; sending the at least partially processed one or more output signals from the local processor to a remote controller computer; and further processing the at least partially processed one or more output signals using the remote controller computer. 76. The method of claim 75, wherein at least partially processing the one or more output signals comprises determining the first and second properties of the specimen. 77. The method of claim 75, wherein further processing the at least partially processed one or more output signals comprises determining the first and second properties of the specimen. 78. A computer-implemented method for controlling a system configured to determine at least two properties of a specimen during use, wherein the system comprises a measurement device, comprising: controlling the measurement device, wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system, and wherein the measurement device is coupled to a stage, comprising: controlling the illumination system to direct energy toward a surface of the specimen; controlling the detection system to detect energy propagating from the surface of the specimen; and generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first property and a second property of the specimen, wherein the first property comprises a presence of macro defects on the specimen, and wherein the second property comprises a presence of micro defects on the specimen. 79. A method for fabricating a semiconductor device, comprising: forming a portion of the semiconductor device upon a specimen; disposing the specimen upon a stage, wherein the stage is coupled to a measurement device, and wherein the measurement device comprises an illumination system and a detection system; directing energy toward a surface of the specimen using the illumination system; detecting energy propagating from the surface of the specimen using the detection system; generating one or more output signals responsive to the detected energy; and processing the one or more output signals to determine a first property and a second property of the specimen, wherein the first property comprises a presence of macro defects on the specimen, and wherein the second property comprises a presence of micro defects on the specimen. 