A method of assembling a modular printhead assembly is provided. The method includes mounting printhead integrated circuits to fluid distribution members, where each printhead IC has nozzles for printing fluid onto print media and the fluid distribution members have apertures for distributing fluid to respective ones of the nozzles, fixedly attaching the fluid distribution members onto a support member with curable resin selectively deposited about fluid delivery channels of the support member and the apertures of the fluid distribution members, where the attachment is made so that the fluid delivery channels are in fluid communication with respective ones of the apertures, and curing the curable resin to seal the selective attachment of the fluid distribution and support members.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of assembling a modular printhead assembly comprising the steps of: mounting a plurality of printhead integrated circuits to a plurality of fluid distribution members, each printhead integrated circuit having nozzles for printing fluid onto the surface of print media and the fluid distribution members having apertures for distributing fluid to the nozzles; fixedly attaching the fluid distribution members onto a support member with curable resin selectively deposited about fluid delivery channels of the support member and the apertures of the fluid distribution members, the attachment being made so that the fluid delivery channels of the support member are in fluid communication with respective ones of the apertures of the fluid distribution members; and curing the curable resin to seal the selective attachment of the fluid distribution and support members. 2. A method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of adhering electrical connectors to each of the fluid distribution members for connecting electrical signals to respective ones of the printhead integrated circuits. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the curable resin is an epoxy resin. 4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the attaching step includes the step of selectively depositing the curable resin about apertures of the support member which extend to the fluid delivery channels. 5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the step of curing the curable resin is performed so as to form sealing gaskets about the apertures of the support and fluid distribution members. 