An inspection system for removably mounting to a platform movable in relation to a generally upright mast for inspection of the mast has a mounting support assembly removably fixable to the platform. The mounting support assembly for scanning the mast carries a detector device and collecting mast scanned information. A power supply is carried by one or more of the mounting support assembly or the detector device and is connected to the detector device. A communications device is carried by one or more of the mounting support assembly or the detector device and is connected to the detector device for receiving and relaying the collected mast scanned information.
Claims We claim: 1. An inspection system for removably mounting to a platform movable in relation to a generally upright mast for inspection of said mast, which comprises: (a) a mounting support assembly removably fixable to said platform; (b) a detector device carried by said mounting support assembly for scanning said mast and collecting mast scanned information, wherein said detector device is one or more of: thermal imaging detector, radio frequency detector, thermal imaging camera, image acquisition device, charge coupler device (CCD), magnetic particle inspection (MPD), video camera, digital still-camera, magnetic particle inspection (MPI), ultrasonic device, magnetic eddy current device, or magnetic resonance imagining (MRI) device; (c) a power supply carried by one or more of said mounting support assembly or said detector device and connected to said detector device; and (d) a communications device carried by one or more of said mounting support assembly or said detector device and connected to said detector device for receiving and relaying said collected mast scanned information. 2. The inspection system of claim 1, further comprising: (d) a first wireless communication transceiver carried by one or more of said mounting support assembly or said detector device and connected to said detector device and connected to said detector device to receive data from said detector device; and (e) a remotely located, second wireless communications transceiver/router in communication with said first wireless communication transceiver for receiving data from said detector device. 3. The inspection system of claim 1, further comprising: (f) a processor connected to said wireless communications transceiver for receiving data from said detector device. 4. The inspection system of claim 3, wherein said processor receives GPS data comprising the geographic location of said mast. 5. The inspection system of claim 3, wherein said scanned information is stored as data for later retrieval and analysis to determine one or more of level of external corrosion, level of internal corrosion, external weld cracks, internal weld cracks, external surface cracks, internal surface cracks, size and extent of holes, breaks, blemishes, defects, loss of surface finish, straightness and verticality of pole structure, extent of graffiti, bullet holes, missing parts, broken parts, geographic location, or elevation. 6. The inspection system of claim 3, wherein said scanned information is stored as data, which stored data post analyzed by human observation and interpretation to determine one or more of whether all components pass and are in good working order; whether any component fails and requires one or more of specific non-destructive testing or remedial action to repair said component; whether any component has an anomaly that requires further monitoring during subsequent inspections to determine the progression of the failure and to eventually predict future failure mode or timing. 7. The inspection system of claim 3, wherein said scanned information is stored as data, which stored data is used to schedule one or more of future inspections or maintenance tasks. 8. The inspection system of claim 3, wherein said scanned information is stored as data, which stored data is used to correlate failure modes. 9. The inspection system of claim 3, wherein said scanned information is stored as data, which stored data is used to create a history of structural behavior leading to eventual failure. 10. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein said detector device senses one or more of mast crack or mast flaw data. 11. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein processor analyzes said crack or flaw data by: (i) receiving data that represents an actual width of a base portion of the mast; (ii) receiving data that represents the distance between the base portion of the mast to a crack or flaw located in the mast; (iii) receiving the actual width of the mast at a location of the crack or flaw; (iv) receiving inputted location points that represent crack or flaw points and receiving inputted width points that represent width points; and (v) calculating the actual dimensions of the crack or flaw based on the relationship between the inputted crack or flaw points in (iv) and the inputted width points and the actual pole width of the subject crack or flaw as provided (iii). 12. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein said detector device is adapted to perform one or more of: detecting, inspecting, monitoring, positioning, or marking. 13. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein said mounting support assembly at least partially circumferentially surrounds said mast. 14. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein said mounting support assembly is at least partially disposed inside of said mast. 15. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein said mounting support assembly is at least partially disposed adjacent to said mast. 16. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein said mounting support assembly comprises a partial band member. 17. The inspection system of claim 16, wherein said partial band segment forms an arc shape. 18. The inspection system of claim 16, wherein said band member is adapted to have an adjustable diameter. 19. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein said mounting support assembly comprises a plurality of detachable segment members. 20. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein said detector device comprises a digital video camera and said mounting support assembly comprises a bracket assembly for removably affixing said digital video camera to said platform. 21. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein said mast is a high mast light pole and said platform is a luminaire ring. 22. The inspection system of claim 1, further comprising: (e) a processor connected to said wireless communications transceiver for receiving data from said detector device. 23. A method for inspecting a generally upright mast having a platform movable along the vertical lengthwise extent of said mast, which comprises the steps of: (i) installing an inspection system to said movable platform, said inspection system comprising: (a) a mounting support assembly removably fixed to said platform; (b) a detector device carried by said mounting support assembly; and (f) a processor connected to said wireless communications transceiver for receiving data from said detector device: (ii) moving said platform along the vertical lengthwise extent of said mast; (iii) collecting scanned information from said detector device correlative to one or more of mast cracks or mast flaws; and (iv) storing said scanned information as data for later retrieval and analysis to determine one or more of level of external corrosion, level of internal corrosion, external weld cracks, internal weld cracks, external surface cracks, internal surface cracks, size and extent of holes, breaks, blemishes, defects, loss of surface finish, straightness and verticality of pole structure, extent of graffiti, bullet holes, missing parts, broken parts, geographic location, or elevation. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein aid detector device is powered by a: (c) power supply carried by one or more of said mounting support assembly or said detector device. 25. The inspection system of claim 24, wherein said detector device is adapted to perform one or more of: detecting, inspecting, monitoring, positioning, or marking. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein said inspection system further includes: (d) a first wireless communication transceiver carried by one or more of said mounting support assembly or said detector device and connected to said detector device and connected to said detector device to receive data from said detector device; and (e) a remotely located, second wireless communications transceive/router in communication with said first wireless communication transceiver for receiving data from said detector device. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein said detector device senses one or more of mast crack or mast flaw data. 28. The method of claim 23, wherein processor analyzes said crack or flaw data by: (i) receiving data that represents an actual width of a base portion of the mast; (ii) receiving data that represents the distance between the base portion of the mast to a crack or flaw located in the mast; (iii) receiving the actual width of the mast at a location of the crack or flaw; (iv) receiving inputted location points that represent crack or flaw points and receiving inputted width points that represent width points; and (v) calculating the actual dimensions of the crack or flaw based on the relationship between the inputted crack or flaw points in (iv) and the inputted width points and the actual pole width of the subject crack or flaw as provided (iii). 29. The method of claim 23 wherein said processor receives GPS data comprising the geographic location of said mast. 30. The method of claim 23, wherein said scanned information is stored as data, which stored data post analyzed by human observation and interpretation to determine one or more of whether all components pass and are in good working order; whether any component fails and requires one or more of specific non-destructive testing or remedial action to repair said component; whether any component has an anomaly that requires further monitoring during subsequent inspections to determine the progression of the failure and to eventually predict future failure mode or timing. 31. The method of claim 23, wherein said scanned information is stored as data, which stored data is used to schedule one or more of future inspections or maintenance tasks. 32. The method of claim 23, wherein said scanned information is stored as data, which stored data is used to correlate failure modes. 33. The method of claim 23, wherein said scanned information is stored as data, which stored data is used to create a history of structural behavior leading to eventual failure. 34. An inspection system for removably mounting to a luminaire ring movable in relation to a generally upright high mast light pole for inspection of said mast, which comprises: (a) a mounting support assembly removably fixable to said luminaire ring; (b) a detector device carried by said mounting support assembly for scanning said mast and collecting mast scanned information; (c) a power supply carried by one or more of said mounting support assembly or said detector device and connected to said detector device; and (d) a communications device carried by one or more of said mounting support assembly or said detector device and connected to said detector device for receiving and relaying said collected high mast light pole scanned information. 35. The inspection system of claim 34, wherein said detector device is adapted to perform one or more of: detecting, inspecting, monitoring, positioning, or marking. 36. A method for inspecting a generally upright mast having a platform movable along the vertical lengthwise extent of said mast, which comprises the steps of: (i) installing an inspection system to said movable platform, said inspection system comprising: (a) a mounting support assembly removably fixed to said platform; (b) a detector device carried by said mounting support assembly; and (c) a processor connected to said wireless communications transceiver for receiving data from said detector device and for receiving GPS data comprising the geographic location of said mast; (ii) moving said platform along the vertical lengthwise extent of said mast; and (iii) collecting data from said detector device correlative to one or more of mast cracks or mast flaws. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein said scanned information is stored as data, which stored data post analyzed by human observation and interpretation to determine one or more of whether all components pass and are in good working order; whether any component fails and requires one or more of specific non-destructive testing or remedial action to repair said component; whether any component has an anomaly that requires further monitoring during subsequent inspections to determine the progression of the failure and to eventually predict future failure mode or timing. 