An automated laboratory device that comprises a mechanism that performs operations on laboratory samples, a scheduler that causes the mechanism to process laboratory samples in accordance with programmed processes, logic that detects an error occurring in a process controlled by the scheduler, logic that accepts a user-defined error handling routine for the error, and logic that executes the error handling routine when the error is encountered. Also described is an embodiment of the invention directed to a laboratory automation system, a method of laboratory automation, a computer implemented software program product, a method of doing business, and a laboratory automation network.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A laboratory automation network comprising: a first laboratory automation system that receives a user-defined error handling routine for an error encountered on the first laboratory automation system; a second laboratory automation system, operated separately from the first laboratory automation system, that receives a second user-defined error handling routine for an error encountered on the second laboratory automation system; a resource coupled to the first laboratory automation system and the second laboratory automation system, the resource comprising: memory for storing error handling routines from the first laboratory automation system and error handling routines from the second laboratory automation system including the first user-defined error handling routine and the second user-defined error handling routine; and logic that sends the first user-defined error handling routine to the second laboratory automation system and logic that sends the second user-defined error handling routine to the first laboratory automation system. 2. The laboratory automation network of claim 1, further including logic that causes the first laboratory automation system to use the first user-defined error handling routine when the error is encountered in a particular process in which the error occurred and does not cause the first laboratory automation system to use the first user-defined error handling routine when the same error occurs in at least one other process. 3. The laboratory automation network of claim 1, further including logic that allows a user to associate the first user-defined error handling routine with at least a particular process for which the first user-defined error handling routine will be run when the error is encountered. 4. The laboratory automation network of claim 1, further including logic that applies to another error an error handling routine not provided by a user when the error handling routine not provided by the user is applicable to the error, and otherwise allows the user to provide a user-defined error handling routine. 5. The laboratory automation network of claim 1, wherein the resource presents information regarding the error handling routines to a system administrator. 6. The laboratory automation network of claim 5, further including logic that allows the system administrator to act upon the user-defined error handling routines. 7. The laboratory automation network of claim 5, further including logic that allows the system administrator to approve, modify and delete the user-defined error handling routines. 8. The laboratory automation network of claim 1, further including logic that sends the first and second error handling routines from the first laboratory automation system and the second laboratory automation system to a laboratory system administrator and logic that allows a system administrator to approve, modify, or delete error handling routines. 9. The laboratory automation network of claim 1, further including logic that filters user-defined error handling routines before distributing the user-defined error handling routines to other laboratory automation systems. 10. The laboratory automation network of claim 1, wherein the first laboratory automation system comprises a set of devices and a chassis coupled to the set of devices, thereby allowing for installation and movement of the first laboratory automation system as a unit. 11. The laboratory automation network of claim 1, wherein the resource comprises a computer server. 12. A laboratory automation system comprising: a set of devices that perform operations on laboratory samples; a scheduler that causes the devices to process laboratory samples in accordance with a plurality of programmed processes, wherein at least one process of the plurality of programmed processes involves use of more than one of the devices to perform a set of operations on the laboratory samples; logic that detects an error occurring in a process controlled by the scheduler; logic that accepts a user-defined error handling routine for the error; logic that sends the user-defined error handling routine to a remote system to be executed by the remote system; and logic that executes a user-defined error handling routine received from the remote system in response to another error. 13. The laboratory automation system of claim 12, wherein the remote system comprises a server or a manufacturer of the laboratory automation system. 14. The laboratory automation system of claim 12, wherein the remote system comprises logic that transfers error handling routines to the manufacturer of at least a device from among the set of devices in the laboratory automation system. 15. The laboratory automation system of claim 12, further including: logic that receives the user-defined error handling routine provided from the remote system. 16. A method of laboratory automation comprising: separately operating a first set of laboratory automation devices and a second set of laboratory automation devices; detecting an error in operation of the first set of laboratory automation devices; receiving a user-defined error handling routine for the error; and executing the user-defined error handling routine when the error is encountered in the second set of laboratory automation devices. 17. A method of operating a laboratory automation system comprising a set of devices that perform operations on laboratory samples, and a scheduler that causes the devices to process laboratory samples in accordance with at least one process involving more than one of the devices to perform a set of operations on the laboratory samples, the method comprising: receiving from the laboratory automation system a user-defined error handling routine provided in response to an error detected in a process controlled by the scheduler; and transmitting the received user-defined error handling routine to laboratory automation systems other than the laboratory automation system from which the error handling routine was received. 18. The method of claim 17, further comprising evaluating the user-defined error handling routine before transmitting the user-defined error handling routing to the other laboratory automation systems. 