A system for detecting the presence of a broken tool in a manufacturing line uses a robot device separately positioned along the line. The robot unit has a plurality of probes which are inserted into openings in the item to detect the presence of a broken tool. The robot mounted detector replaces broken tool detectors mounted on index arms that support a plurality of gangheads that perform the machining operations on the item, allowing increased flexibility in the allocation and positioning the gangheads, and providing more effective broken tool detection.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A broken tool detection system for use in a manufacturing line for forming workpieces, wherein said system comprises: a line for moving the workpieces between a plurality of stations; a plurality of machining centers positioned along the line, each of the machining centers being adapted to perform machining operations on said workpieces so as to form holes in a predetermined pattern; and a robot unit positioned along the line downstream of at least one of the machining centers, the robot unit carrying a tooling plate having probes arranged so as to correspond to said predetermined pattern of holes such that, when said robot unit moves said tooling plate toward said workpiece, said robot unit senses a broken tool in the workpiece by engagement of said probes with the broken tool. 2. The broken tool detection system of claim 1, wherein each of the machining centers has an index arm for positioning a ganghead adjacent to a workpiece to perform the machining operations. 3. The broken tool detection system of claim 2, wherein each of the index arms has multiple positions, each position capable of supporting a ganghead, whereby a plurality of gangheads can be sequentially moved into position adjacent to workpiece to perform machining operations. 4. The broken tool detection system of claim 1, wherein the probes on the robot unit are positioned for insertion into the openings formed in the workpiece to detect the presence of broken tools. 5. The broken tool detection system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of tooling plates arranged with said robot unit in a detection space, each of said tooling plates has an arrangement of probes that corresponds to a pattern of openings in a particular one of a plurality of workpieces, wherein said robot selects which of said plurality of tooling plates corresponds to the workpiece in said detection space, and inserts the probes of said selected tooling plate into said workpiece openings. 6. The broken tool detection system of claim 5, wherein each of the machining centers has an index arm for positioning a ganghead adjacent to a workpiece to perform the machining operations. 7. The broken tool detection system of claim 6, wherein each of the index arms has multiple positions, each position capable of supporting a ganghead, whereby a plurality of gangheads can be sequentially moved into position adjacent to workpiece to perform machining operations. 8. A method for manufacturing a workpiece that includes the detection of broken tools, wherein said method comprises the steps of: moving the workpiece along a manufacturing line between a plurality of stations; performing machining operations on the workpiece at the stations by engaging the workpiece with machine tools adjacent to the line so as to form holes in said workpiece; and after completion of the machining operations, detecting a presence of a broken tool in the workpiece by the steps of: moving the workpiece to a detection space, said detection space housing a robot unit and a plurality of tooling plates, each of the tooling plates having probes arranged in a pattern that corresponds to a particular workpiece hole pattern; selecting which of the plurality of tooling plates corresponds to the workpiece that is at the detection space; moving said selected tooling plate with the robot unit into engagement with the workpiece such that the tooling plate probes extend into said workpiece holes; and determining whether further inspection of the workpiece is necessary based upon whether the probes freely extend into said workpiece holes. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of performing machining operations is performed by sequentially engaging the workpiece machine tools mounted on gangheads supported on index arms, each of the gangheads being moved by the index arm into position adjacent to the workpiece to perform the machining operations. 