A robotic mapping method includes scanning a robot across a surface to be mapped. Locations of a plurality of points on the surface are sensed during the scanning. A first of the sensed point locations is selected. A preceding subset of the sensed point locations is determined. The preceding subset is disposed before the first sensed point location along a path of the scanning. A following subset of the sensed point locations is determined. The following subset is disposed after the first sensed point location along the path of the scanning. The first sensed point location is represented in a map of the surface by an adjusted first sensed point location. The adjusted first sensed point location is closer to each of the preceding and following subsets of the sensed point locations than is the first sensed point location.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic mapping method, comprising: scanning at least one robot across a surface to be mapped, the scanning including a first scan and a second scan; sensing locations of a plurality of points on the surface, a first set of the sensed point locations being sensed during the first scan, a second set of the sensed point locations being sensed during the second scan; selecting a first pair of adjacent said sensed point locations from the first set, a first imaginary line segment joining the first pair of adjacent said sensed point locations having a first slope; selecting a second pair of adjacent said sensed point locations from the second set, the first pair of adjacent sensed point locations having a position in a direction of the scanning that corresponds to a position of the second pair of adjacent sensed point locations in the direction of the scanning, a second imaginary line segment joining the second pair of adjacent said sensed point locations having a second slope; and representing one of the first pair of adjacent sensed point locations in a map of the surface by an adjusted first sensed point location, a third imaginary line segment joining the adjusted first sensed point location and an other sensed point location of the first pair, the third imaginary line segment having a third slope, the third slope being closer to the second slope than is the first slope. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the one of the first pair of adjacent sensed point locations that is adjusted follows the other sensed point location of the first pair along the direction of the scanning. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the selecting and representing steps are repeated for each of the sensed point locations in the first set. 4. The method of claim 1 comprising the further step of calculating a probabilistic distribution associated with the adjusted first sensed point location, the probabilistic distribution having a peak value disposed at a location where the third slope is approximately equal to the second slope, the distribution having values decreasing in all directions away from the peak value, the representing step being dependent upon the probabilistic distribution. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the probabilistic distribution comprises a quadratic normal distribution. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the sensed point locations in the first set and the second set are substantially co-planar. 7. A robotic arrangement configured to perform the steps of: scanning across a surface to be mapped, the scanning including a first scan and a second scan; sensing locations of a plurality of points on the surface, a first set of the sensed point locations being sensed during the first scan, a second set of the sensed point locations being sensed during the second scan; selecting a first pair of adjacent said sensed point locations from the first set, a first imaginary line segment joining the first pair of adjacent said sensed point locations having a first slope; selecting a second pair of adjacent said sensed point locations from the second set, the first pair of adjacent sensed point locations having a position in a direction of the scanning that corresponds to a position of the second pair of adjacent sensed point locations in the direction of the scanning, a second imaginary line segment joining the second pair of adjacent said sensed point locations having a second slope; and representing one of the first pair of adjacent sensed point locations in a map of the surface by an adjusted first sensed point location, a third imaginary line segment joining the adjusted first sensed point location and an other sensed point location of the first pair, the third imaginary line segment having a third slope, the third slope being closer to the second slope than is the first slope. 8. The arrangement of claim 7 wherein the one of the first pair of adjacent sensed point locations that is adjusted follows the other sensed point location of the first pair along the direction of the scanning. 9. The arrangement of claim 7 wherein the arrangement is configured to repeat the selecting and representing steps for each of the sensed point locations in the first set. 10. The arrangement of claim 7 wherein the arrangement is configured to perform the further step of calculating a probabilistic distribution associated with the adjusted first sensed point location, the probabilistic distribution having a peak value disposed at a location where the third slope is approximately equal to the second slope, the distribution having values decreasing in all directions away from the peak value, the representing step being dependent upon the probabilistic distribution. 11. The arrangement of claim 10 wherein the probabilistic distribution comprises a quadratic normal distribution. 12. The arrangement of claim 7 wherein the sensed point locations in the first set and the second set are substantially co-planar. 13. A computer readable medium including program instructions which when executed by at least one robot cause the at least one robot to perform the steps of: scanning across a surface to be mapped, the scanning including a first scan and a second scan; sensing locations of a plurality of points on the surface, a first set of the sensed point locations being sensed during the first scan, a second set of the sensed point locations being sensed during the second scan; selecting a first pair of adjacent said sensed point locations from the first set, a first imaginary line segment joining the first pair of adjacent said sensed point locations having a first slope; selecting a second pair of adjacent said sensed point locations from the second set, the first pair of adjacent sensed point locations having a position in a direction of the scanning that corresponds to a position of the second pair of adjacent sensed point locations in the direction of the scanning, a second imaginary line segment joining the second pair of adjacent said sensed point locations having a second slope; and representing one of the first pair of adjacent sensed point locations in a map of the surface by an adjusted first sensed point location, a third imaginary line segment joining the adjusted first sensed point location and an other sensed point location of the first pair, the third imaginary line segment having a third slope, the third slope being closer to the second slope than is the first slope. 14. The medium of claim 13 wherein the one of the first pair of adjacent sensed point locations that is adjusted follows the other sensed point location of the first pair along the direction of the scanning. 15. The medium of claim 13 wherein the at least one robot is caused to repeat the selecting and representing steps for each of the sensed point locations in the first set. 16. The medium of claim 13 wherein the at least one robot is caused to perform the further step of calculating a probabilistic distribution associated with the adjusted first sensed point location, the probabilistic distribution having a peak value disposed at a location where the third slope is approximately equal to the second slope, the distribution having values decreasing in all directions away from the peak value, the representing step being dependent upon the probabilistic distribution. 17. The medium of claim 16 wherein the probabilistic distribution comprises a quadratic normal distribution. 18. The medium of claim 13 wherein the sensed point locations in the first set and the second set are substantially co-planar. 19. A robotic mapping method, comprising: scanning at least one robot across a surface to be mapped, the scanning including a first scan and a second scan; sensing locations of a plurality of points on the surface, a first set of the sensed point locations being sensed during the first scan, a second set of the sensed point locations being sensed during the second scan; selecting a first pair of adjacent said sensed point locations from the first set, a first imaginary line segment joining the first pair of adjacent said sensed point locations; selecting a second pair of adjacent said sensed point locations from the second set, the first pair of adjacent sensed point locations having a position in a direction of the scanning that corresponds to a position of the second pair of adjacent sensed point locations in the direction of the scanning, a second imaginary line segment joining the second pair of adjacent said sensed point locations; and representing one of the first pair of adjacent sensed point locations in a map of the surface by an adjusted first sensed point location, a third imaginary line segment joining the adjusted first sensed point location and an other sensed point location of the first pair, the third imaginary line segment being closer to being parallel to the second imaginary line segment than is the first imaginary line segment. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein the sensed point locations in the first set and the second set are substantially co-planar. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein the selecting and representing steps are repeated for each of the sensed point locations in the first set. 