A printhead assembly is provided having at least one printhead module, at least one controller and a casing in which the printhead module and controller are removably mounted. The module is a unitary arrangement of a support member, at least two print nozzle integrated circuits, at least two fluid distribution members each mounting the print nozzle integrated circuits to the support member, and respective electrical connectors. The controller is configured to process print data and to communicate the processed print data to microprocessing circuitry of at least one of the print nozzle integrated circuits via the respective electrical connector so as to control the printing operation of the print nozzle integrated circuit(s) to print the processed print data.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printhead module comprising a unitary arrangement of a support member, at least two print nozzle integrated circuits, at least two fluid distribution members each mounting the print nozzle integrated circuits to the support member, and respective electrical connectors; at least one controller configured to process print data and to communicate the processed print data to microprocessing circuitry of at least one of the print nozzle integrated circuits via the respective electrical connector so as to control the printing operation of said print nozzle integrated circuit to print the processed print data; and a casing in which the printhead module and controller are removably mounted. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the at least one printhead module comprises one or more groups of print nozzle integrated circuits and a single controller is selected for controlling each group of print nozzle integrated circuits via the respective electrical connectors. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the support member is formed with a plurality of channels, each of which is arranged to carry a different printing fluid for direction to associated groups of nozzles of the print nozzle integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein each print nozzle integrated circuit is individually supported upon a separate fluid distribution member. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the support member is formed such that a first side thereof is slidably received in a longitudinally extending groove of the casing and a second side thereof is clamped to the casing by a clamping arrangement. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the clamping arrangement is employed to constrain movement of the printhead module relative to the casing in the direction of printing fluid delivery from nozzles of the print nozzle integrated circuits to print media. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein: the casing comprises a longitudinally extending channel portion within which the printhead module is mounted, the channel comprising first and second side walls joined by a lower wall; the first side wall including the longitudinally extending groove and the longitudinally extending groove being formed between upper and lower longitudinally extending tabs; and the second side wall having a longitudinally extending upper surface upon which the second side of the printhead module is mounted, the longitudinally extending upper surface having a height from the lower surface of the channel portion substantially equal to a height of the lower longitudinally extending protrusion of the first side wall. 8. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein: the casing includes a support frame, incorporating the channel portion, and a cover portion; and the clamping arrangement engages with the support frame. 9. A printhead assembly according to claim 8, wherein the cover portion is removably attached to the support frame. 10. A printhead assembly according to claim 8, wherein: drive electronics are provided for driving the print nozzle integrated circuits via the respective electrical connector; and the support frame supports the drive electronics. 11. A printhead assembly according to claim 10, wherein the controller and drive electronics are supported by at least one printed circuit board which is removably mounted to the support frame. 12. A printhead assembly according to claim 11, wherein connection ports of the printed circuit board are aligned with the respective electrical connectors to connect the controller to the respective print nozzle integrated circuits. 13. A printhead assembly according to claim 11, wherein the printed circuit board is removably mounted on the support frame via at least one mounting element. 14. A printhead assembly according to claim 13, wherein the mounting element incorporates the clamping arrangement. 15. A printhead assembly according to claim 13, wherein there are at least two of the mounting elements arranged in abutting relationship along a longitudinal direction of the casing, each being arranged to support an individual printed circuit board, and the individual printed circuit boards supported by abutting ones of the mounting elements being interconnected by an electrical connecting member located between the abutting mounting elements. 16. A printhead assembly according to claim 13, wherein a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors are located within the casing and are provided for delivering power from a power supply to the controller and the print nozzle integrated circuits. 17. A printhead assembly according to claim 16, wherein the electrical conductors are carried by the mounting element. 18. A printhead assembly according to claim 17, wherein the mounting element has formed therein a plurality of recessed channels for receiving individual ones of the electrical conductors. 