Apparatuses and methods for forming displays are claimed. One embodiment of the invention relates to forming a flexible active matrix display along a length of flexible substrate. Another embodiment of the invention relates to forming multiple flexible displays along a continuous flexible substrate. Another embodiment of the invention relates to forming a flexible display along a flexible reflective substrate. Another embodiment of the invention relates to using FSA generally with a flexible web process material. Another embodiment of the invention relates to using FSA and a deterministic method such as "pick and place" to place objects onto a rigid substrate or onto a web process material. Another embodiment of the invention relates to using web processing to deposit and/or pattern display material through an in-line process.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of selectively placing an object onto a region of a substrate that forms a portion of a display panel, said method comprising: dispensing a slurry containing a plurality of shaped objects onto a substrate, said shaped objects being deposited into recessed regions of the substrate; checking for empty recessed regions in the substrate; placing robotically an object into an empty recessed region of the substrate. 2. The method as in claim 1 further comprising coupling a display material to said substrate. 3. The method as in claim 1 wherein said substrate is rigid. 4. The method as in claim 1 wherein said substrate is flexible. 5. The method as in claim 1 wherein recessed regions are about a first size and about second size. 6. The method as in claim 5 wherein an object of about a first size is dispensed in a slurry onto the substrate, said at least one object is received into a region with a first size. 7. The method as in claim 6 wherein an object about the size of the region with a second size is dispensed in a slurry onto the substrate, said object is received into a region with a second size. 8. A method of placing objects onto a substrate, said method comprising: dispensing a slurry containing a plurality of shaped objects onto a substrate, said shaped objects being deposited onto a first receptor region of said substrate; checking for empty receptor regions in the substrate; grasping at least one object with a robotic arm and depositing said one object onto a second receptor region, comprising at least one empty receptor region, of said substrate. 9. The method as in claim 8 wherein said first receptor region is different in size than said second receptor region and both are recessed regions in said substrate. 10. The method as in claim 9 wherein said one object is different in size than each of said shaped objects. 11. The method as in claim 8 wherein said substrate is rigid. 12. The method as in claim 8 wherein said substrate is flexible and is processed through support members in a web process. 13. The method as in claim 8 wherein the first receptor region of said substrate is the equivalent size to the second receptor region of said substrate. 14. A method of depositing a display material through an in-line process on a flexible substrate to form a plurality of display panels, comprising the steps of: depositing a display material onto the flexible substrate in a first region of the flexible substrate; and depositing said display material on the flexible substrate in a second region of the flexible substrate, wherein said first region is for a first display panel and said second region is for a second display panel or another portion of said first display panel. 15. The method as in claim 14 wherein a backplane is coupled to the flexible substrate. 16. The method as in claim 14 wherein the backplane is flexible. 17. The method as in claim 14 wherein the display comprises a liquid crystal material. 18. The method as in claim 14 wherein the display material comprises an upconverting phosphorus. 19. The method as in claim 14 wherein the display material comprises a polymer-dispersed liquid crystal. 20. The method as in claim 14 wherein the display material comprises cholesteric liquid crystal. 21. The method as in claim 14 wherein the patterning of the display material is by laser etching. 22. The method as in claim 14 wherein the patterning of the display material is by an ink jet. 23. The method as in claim 14 wherein the patterning of the display material is by screen printing. 24. The method as in claim 14 wherein the patterning of the display material is by deposition. 25. The method as in claim 14 wherein the patterning of the display material is by lithography and etching. 26. The method as in claim 14 wherein a metal interconnect is deposited onto the first region of the substrate. 