A method and apparatus for handling thin films, for example, for handling and assembling membranes in fuel cell electrodes. The apparatus includes a translatable vacuum table for mounting the thin film, a perforated drum having a source of vacuum for removing the thin film from the vacuum table, and a transfer assembly having a perforated surface and a source of vacuum for transferring the thin film from the perforated drum to a target location. When the thin films are provided in containers, the apparatus may also include means for opening the containers to access the thin film within. Removal of the thin film from the transfer assembly may be aided by a thin film release device, for example, a plurality of moveable wires. The apparatus may be automated, for example, the apparatus may included automated controllers and robotic arms to facilitate the handling of thin film materials.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for transferring a thin film from a source position to a target position, the method comprising: positioning the thin film in the source position; attaching the thin film to a first surface in a first position; moving the first surface from the first position to a second position wherein the thin film is removed from the source position; transferring the thin film from the first surface to a second surface, the second surface positioned in a first position; moving the second surface from the first position to a second position; and transferring the thin film from the second surface to the target position, and wherein the thin film comprises a fuel-cell membrane. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the fuel-cell membrane is provided in a viscous solution. 3. A method for feeding a fuel cell membrane to a fuel cell electrode, the method comprising: positioning the fuel cell membrane onto a vacuum table; attaching the fuel cell membrane to an arcuate surface in a first position; rotating the arcuate surface from the first position to a second position wherein the fuel cell membrane is removed from the vacuum table; transferring the fuel cell membrane from the arcuate surface to a transfer surface, the transfer surface positioned in a first position; moving the transfer surface having the fuel cell membrane from the first position to a second position adjacent a fuel cell electrode; and transferring the fuel cell membrane from the transfer surface to the fuel cell electrode. 