A system for machining workpieces (12) and separating the chips from the workpieces (12) includes a plurality of workstations (14) detachably interconnected by a housing (16) and arranged along a processing path (A). A coolant and filtration device (56) extends through the workstations (14) and is adaptable for separating the chips from the workpieces (12). A mist collection device (54) is cooperable with the workstations (14) and the coolant and filtration device (56) for removing mist generated by the workstations (14) while machining the workpieces (12). The workstations (14) are interconnected with the mist collection device (54) and the coolant and filtration device (56) to form a single machining module (10) of various dimensions and configurations to be adaptable for various manufacturing environments.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An integrated system for machining workpieces and separating the chips generated from machining the workpieces comprising; a plurality of workstations arranged along a processing path for machining the workpieces, a coolant and filtration device extending through said plurality of workstations and adaptable for separating the chips from the workpieces, a mist collection device cooperable with said plurality of workstations and said coolant and filtration device for removing mist generated by said plurality of workstations, and said plurality of workstations interconnected with said mist collection device and said coolant and filtration device thereby forming a single machining module for processing the workpieces. 2. An integrated system as set forth in claim 1 wherein each of said workstations is configured to perform various machining operations, said workstations having operational interface defined by power supply connectors. 3. An integrated system as set forth in claim 2 including a housing having a plurality of openings defined therein and doors covering at least two of said openings. 4. An integrated system as set forth in claim 3 wherein each of said workstations is detachably disposed in said opening of said housing thereby forming said single machining module. 5. An integrated system as set forth in claim 4 including an interface connection defined in said housing to receive said workstation. 6. An integrated system as set forth in claim 5 wherein said interface connection is further defined by a panel removably disposed in said opening, said panel presenting a connection system to complement with said power supply connectors of said operational interface. 7. An integrated system as set forth in claim 6 including a track connected to said housing and extending along said processing path. 8. An integrated system as set forth in claim 7 including a manipulator slidably movable along said track for engaging the workpiece and processing the workpiece in at least one of said workstations. 9. An integrated system as set forth in claim 8 wherein said manipulator is further defined by a multi-axial robotic device. 10. An integrated system as set forth in claim 9 including a conveyor system for separating the workpieces relative said single machining module. 11. An integrated system as set forth in claim 10 wherein said conveyor system is further defined by a first conveyor extending through said single machining module for delivering pre-machined workpieces to be pick-up by said multi-axial robotic device and moving machined workpieces away from said multi-axial robotic device after machining process is complete. 12. An integrated system as set forth in claim 11 wherein said conveyor system is further defined by a second conveyor extending to said single machining module for moving defective workpieces away from said single machining module. 13. An integrated system for machining workpieces and separating the chips generated from machining the workpieces comprising; a plurality of workstations interconnected along a processing path to form a cooperable machining system, a processing system extending through said plurality of workstations adaptable for separating the chips from the workpieces and removing mist generated by said plurality of workstations, and a manipulator cooperable with said cooperable machining system and movable along said processing path thereby transferring the workpieces relative to said workstations for selectively processing the workpieces at each of said workstations. 14. An integrated system as set forth in claim 13 wherein cooperable single machining system is further defined by a housing having a plurality of openings defined therein and doors covering at least two of said openings. 15. An integrated system as set forth in claim 14 wherein each of said workstations is detachably disposed in said openings of said housing thereby forming said cooperable machining system. 16. An integrated system as set forth in claim 15 wherein each of said workstations perform various machining operations, said workstations having operational interface defined by power supply connectors. 17. An integrated system as set forth in claim 16 wherein said manipulator is further defined by a track connected to said housing and extending along said processing path. 18. An integrated system as set forth in claim 17 wherein said manipulator is further defined by a multi-axial robotic device slidably movable along said track for engaging the workpiece and processing the workpiece in at least one of said workstations. 19. An integrated system as set forth in claim 18 including a conveyor system for separating the workpieces relative said cooperable machining module, said conveyor system including a first conveyor extending through said cooperable machining module for delivering pre-machined workpieces to be pick-up by said multi-axial robotic device and moving machined workpieces away from said multi-axial robotic device after machining process is complete and a second conveyor extending to said cooperable machining module for moving defective workpieces away from said cooperable machining module. 20. An integrated system as set forth in claim 19 wherein said processing system is further defined by a coolant and filtration device extending through said plurality of workstations and adaptable for separating the chips from the workpieces. 21. An integrated system as set forth in claim 19 wherein said processing system is further defined by a mist collection device cooperable with said plurality of workstations and said coolant and filtration device for removing mist generated by said plurality of workstations machining the workpieces. 22. An integrated system as set forth in claim 21 including an interface connection defined in said housing to receive said workstation. 23. An integrated system as set forth in claim 22 wherein said interface connection is further defined by a panel removably disposed in said opening, said panel presenting a connection system to complement with said power supply connectors of said operational interface. 24. An integrated system for machining workpieces and separating the chips generated from machining the workpieces comprising; a housing, a first workstation and a second workstation interconnected by said housing along a processing path to form a machining module, an operational interface defined by each of said first workstation and said second workstation, and an interface connection disposed in said housing to interchangeably receive said operational interfaces of said first workstation and said second workstation. 25. An integrated system as set forth in claim 24 wherein said housing includes a plurality of openings defined therein. 26. An integrated system as set forth in claim 25 wherein said interface connection is positioned detachably adjacent one of said openings. 27. An integrated system as set forth in claim 26 wherein said interface connection is further defined by a panel presenting a connection system configured to complement with said operational interfaces of said first workstation and said second workstation. 28. An integrated system as set forth in claim 27 including a manipulator cooperable with said housing and movable along said processing path for selectively processing the workpieces at each of said first and second workstations. 29. An integrated system as set forth in claim 28 wherein said manipulator is further defined by a track connected to said housing and extending along said processing path. 30. An integrated system as set forth in claim 29 wherein said manipulator is further defined by a multi-axial robotic device slidably movable along said track for engaging the workpiece and processing the workpiece in at least one of said first and second workstations. 31. An integrated system as set forth in claim 30 including a conveyor system for separating the workpieces relative said housing, said conveyor system including a first conveyor extending through said housing for delivering pre-machined workpieces to be pick-up by said multi-axial robotic device and moving machined workpieces away from said multi-axial robotic device after machining process is complete and a second conveyor extending to said housing for moving defective workpieces away from said housing. 32. An integrated system as set forth in claim 30 including a coolant and filtration device extending through said housing and adaptable for separating the chips generated from machining the workpieces. 33. An integrated system as set forth in claim 32 including a mist collection device cooperable with said first workstation and said second workstation and said coolant and filtration device for removing mist generated by said first workstation and said second workstation machining the workpieces. 34. An integrated system as set forth in claim 33 wherein each of said first and second workstations is detachably disposed in said housing thereby forming a single machining module. 35. An integrated system for machining workpieces having a pair of workstations interconnected along a processing path and a manipulator cooperable with the workstations providing access the workstations to process the workpieces at each of the workstations, said integrated system comprising: a housing having interconnected side walls exposed to an open top for engaging the workstations, said housing presenting at least one door to allow an access into said housing; a panel partially enclosing said open top; and a locking mechanism interconnected with said housing and said panel to slidably move said panel relative to said housing at said open top for preventing the manipulator from accessing the workstation as the workstation is accessible through said at least one door being opened. 36. An integrated system as set forth in claim 35 wherein said locking mechanism is further defined by a handle having a shoulder for slidably moving along the processing path , said shoulder extending to a gripper overlapping said door as said door is closed. 37. An integrated system as set forth in claim 36 wherein said locking mechanism is further defined by a pair of limiters connected to said housing for controlling slidable movement of said handle relative to said housing. 38. An integrated system for machining workpieces comprising: a pair of workstations interconnected along a processing path; a manipulator cooperable with said workstations and adaptable to access said workstations; a housing having interconnected side walls exposed to an open top for engaging the workstations, said housing presenting at least one door to allow an access into said housing; a panel partially enclosing said open top; and a locking mechanism interconnected with said housing and said panel to slidably move said panel relative to said housing at said open top thereby preventing said manipulator from accessing said workstations when said door is opened. 39. An integrated system as set forth in claim 38 wherein said locking mechanism is further defined by a handle having a shoulder for slidably moving along the processing path, said shoulder extending to a gripper overlapping said door as said door is closed. 40. An integrated system as set forth in claim 39 wherein said locking mechanism is further defined by a pair of limiters connected to said housing for controlling slidable movement of said handle relative to said housing. 41. An integrated system as set forth in claim 40 including a coolant and filtration device extending through said housing and adaptable for separating the chips from the workpieces. 42. An integrated system as set forth in claim 41 including a mist collection device cooperable with said workstations and said coolant and filtration device for removing mist generated by said workstations machining the workpieces and discharging the mist into said coolant and filtration device. 43. A method of forming a machining module for manufacturing workpieces comprising; engaging a plurality of workstations to define a processing path to machine the workpieces, cooperably assembling a processing system with the plurality of workstations to form the machining module to circulate the chips from the workpieces and to remove mist generated by the plurality of workstations, connecting a manipulator to the machining module to move the workpieces along the processing path to process the workpieces at each of the workstations, and moving the machining module to a remote location. 44. A method as set forth in claim 43 wherein the step of connecting a manipulator to the machining module is further defined by connecting a track to the machining module along the processing path. 45. A method as set forth in claim 44 wherein the step of connecting a manipulator to the machining module is further defined by engaging a multi-axial robotic device within the track to slidably move the multi-axial robotic device along the track. 46. A method as set forth in claim 45 wherein the step of engaging a plurality of workstations is further defined by forming a housing having at least one opening defined therein. 47. A method as set forth in claim 46 wherein the step of engaging a plurality of workstations is further defined by detachably disposing the workstations in the at least one opening of the housing. 48. A method as set forth in claim 47 including the step of connecting a conveyor system for separating the workpieces relative the machining module. 49. A method as set forth in claim 48 wherein the step of connecting a conveyor system is further defined by extending a first conveyor through the machining module to deliver pre-machined workpieces to be pick-up by the multi-axial robotic device and to move machined workpieces away from the machining module after machining process is complete. 50. A method as set forth in claim 49 wherein the step of connecting a conveyor is further defined by connecting a second conveyor to the machining module to move defective workpieces away from the machining module. 51. A method as set forth in claim 50 wherein the step of cooperably assembling a processing system is further defined by interconnecting a coolant and filtration device with the plurality of workstations to circulate the chips from the workpieces. 52. A method as set forth in claim 51 wherein the step of cooperably assembling a processing system is further defined by interconnecting a mist collection device with the plurality of workstations and the coolant and filtration device to remove mist generated by the plurality of workstations and to discharge the mist into the coolant and filtration device. 53. A method of forming a machining module for manufacturing workpieces comprising; engaging a plurality of workstations to define a processing path to machine the workpieces, cooperably assembling a coolant and filtration device with the plurality of workstations to form the machining module to separate the chips generated from machining the workpieces from a coolant and to remove mist generated by the plurality of workstations, connecting a pressurized pump to the coolant and filtration device to circulate the coolant separated from the chips and supplying the coolant to the plurality of workstations, connecting a manipulator to the machining module to move the workpieces along the processing path to process the workpieces at each of the workstations, and moving the single machining module to a remote location. 54. A method as set forth in claim 53 wherein the step of connecting a manipulator to the machining module is further defined by connecting a track to the machining module along the processing path. 55. A method as set forth in claim 54 wherein the step of connecting a manipulator to the machining module is further defined by engaging a multi-axial robotic device within the track to slidably move the multi-axial robotic device along the track. 56. A method as set forth in claim 55 wherein the step of engaging a plurality of workstations is further defined by forming a housing having at least one opening defined therein. 57. A method as set forth in claim 56 wherein the step of engaging a plurality of workstations is further defined by detachably disposing the workstations in the at least one opening of the housing. 58. A method as set forth in claim 57 including the step of connecting a conveyor system for separating the workpieces relative the machining module. 59. A method as set forth in claim 58 wherein the step of connecting a conveyor system is further defined by extending a first conveyor through the machining module to deliver pre-machined workpieces to be pick-up by the multi-axial robotic device and to move machined workpieces away from the machining module after machining process is complete. 60. A method as set forth in claim 59 wherein the step of connecting a conveyor is further defined by connecting a second conveyor to the machining module to move defective workpieces away from the machining module. 61. A method as set forth in claim 60 wherein the step of cooperably assembling a coolant and filtration device is further defined by interconnecting a mist collection device with the plurality of workstations to remove mist generated by the plurality of workstations and to discharge the mist into the coolant and filtration device. 