A stopper and container body are molded in the same molding machine. An assembly device, such as a pick and place robot, transfers the stopper from one mold cavity into the opening in the container body located within another mold cavity, or vice versa, to assemble the stopper and container body. Then, the assembled container body and stopper are removed from the molding machine and transported to a needle filling and laser resealing station for filling and laser resealing. A laminar flow source directs a substantially laminar flow of air or sterile gas over the mold surfaces, stoppers and container bodies, and assembly device, to prevent contamination during assembly.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of molding and assembling containers having container bodies defining openings in communication with interior chambers for receiving a substance therein, and resealable members for sealing the openings and substances received in the containers, comprising the following steps: (a) molding a container body in a first mold cavity; (b) molding a resealable member in a second mold cavity; (c) assembling at least one of the container body and resealable member to the other at container body and resealable member temperatures greater than an ambient temperature, and upon removal of at least one of the container body and resealable member from the respective mold cavity, said assembling further including at least one of: (i) transferring the resealable member from the second mold cavity into engagement with the container body which is located at least partially within the first mold cavity, assembling the resealable member to the container body, and forming a substantially sterile, sealed container body and resealable member assembly; (ii) transferring the container body from the first mold cavity into engagement with the resealable member which is located at least partially within the second mold cavity, assembling the container body to the resealable member, and forming a substantially sterile, sealed container body and resealable member assembly; and (iii) assembling at least one of the container body and resealable member to the other immediately after the removal of at least one of the container body and resealable member from the respective mold cavity with each of the container body and resealable member at a bactericidal temperature, and forming a substantially sterile, sealed container body and resealable member assembly. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the container body and resealable member temperatures at assembly are each greater than approximately 80.degree. C. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the container body and resealable member temperatures at assembly are each within the range of about 80.degree. C. through about 140.degree. C. 4. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of directing a substantially laminar flow of substantially sterile gas over the container body and resealable member during assembly thereof. 5. A method as defined in claim 4, further comprising the step of directing the laminar flow downwardly over the container body and resealable member during assembly thereof. 6. A method as defined in claim 4, further comprising the step of directing the laminar flow laterally over the container body and resealable member during assembly thereof. 7. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of providing a barrier enclosure defining an aseptic chamber including therein at least one of the first mold cavity, the second mold cavity and an assembly device, and assembling within the aseptic enclosure the resealable member and container body. 8. A method as defined in claim 7, further comprising the step of surrounding with the baffler enclosure the first mold cavity, the second mold cavity and the assembly device. 9. A method as defined in claim 8, further comprising the steps of providing the first mold cavity in a first molding machine, the second mold cavity in a second molding machine, and locating the first and second molding machines within the barrier enclosure. 10. A method of molding and assembling containers having container bodies defining openings in communication with interior chambers for receiving a substance therein, and resealable members for sealing the openings and substances received in the containers, comprising the following steps: (a) molding a container body in a first mold cavity; (b) molding a resealable member in a second mold cavity; (c) assembling at least one of the container body and resealable member to the other at container body and resealable member temperatures greater than an ambient temperature, and upon removal of at least one of the container body and resealable member from the respective mold cavity, said assembling further including at least one of: (i) transferring the resealable member from the second mold cavity into engagement with the container body which is located at least partially within the first mold cavity, assembling the resealable member to the container body, and forming a substantially sterile, sealed container body and resealable member assembly; (ii) transferring the container body from the first mold cavity into engagement with the resealable member which is located at least partially within the second mold cavity, assembling the container body to the resealable member, and forming a substantially sterile, sealed container body and resealable member assembly; and (iii) assembling at least one of the container body and resealable member to the other immediately after the removal of at least one of the container body and resealable member from the respective mold cavity with each of the container body and resealable member at a bactericidal temperature, and forming a substantially sterile, sealed container body and resealable member assembly; (d) transferring the container body and resealable member assembly to a needle filling and thermal resealing station including at least one needle and a thermal source; (e) penetrating the resealable member with the needle and introducing a substance from the needle through the penetrated resealable member and into the interior chamber of the container body at a temperature substantially less than the container body and resealable member temperature at assembly of the container body and resealable member; (f) withdrawing the needle from the resealable member; and (g) thermally sealing with the thermal source a needle penetrated region of the resealable member. 11. A method as defined in claim 10, further comprising the steps of: configuring the first and second mold cavities and an assembly device, and the needle filling and thermal resealing station in line relative to each other; and transferring the assembled container and resealable member assemblies from at least one of the first mold cavity, second mold cavity and assembly device to the needle filling and thermal resealing station. 12. A method as defined in claim 10, further comprising the step of transmitting e-beam radiation onto at least one of (i) the assembled container and resealable member prior to needle filling and thermal resealing thereof, and (ii) the assembled container and resealable member and needle during filling and thermal resealing thereof. 13. A method as defined in claim 10, further comprising the step of sensing the temperature of the thermally resealed portion of the resealable member, and determining whether the temperature of the resealed surface of the resealable member is greater than the melting temperature of the resealable member material and less than the vaporization temperature of the resealable member material. 14. A method as defined in claim 13, further comprising the step of comparing the sensed temperature to at least one predetermined temperature to determine whether a needle hole in the resealable member is sealed. 15. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the steps of: providing a plurality of first mold cavities and a plurality of second mold cavities; substantially simultaneously molding a plurality of container bodies in the first mold cavities; substantially simultaneously molding a plurality of resealable members in the second mold cavities; and substantially simultaneously assembling with at least one assembly device a plurality of molded container bodies and resealable member into a plurality of sealed, empty container body and resealable member assemblies. 16. A method for molding and assembling containers having container bodies defining openings in communication with interior chambers for receiving a substance therein, and resealable members for sealing the openings and substances received in the containers, the method comprising: forming in a first mold cavity at least one container body; forming in a second mold cavity at least one resealable member; and assembling at least one of the container body and resealable member to the other by at least one of: a) transferring one of i) a formed container body at a first temperature greater than an ambient temperature and ii) a formed resealable member at a second temperature greater than the ambient temperature from the respective first or second mold cavity into engagement with the other of a formed container body and resealable member which is located at least partially within the respective first or second mold cavity, and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein; and b) assembling at least one of the container body and resealable member to the other immediately after the removal of at least one of the container body and resealable member from the respective mold cavity with each of the container body and resealable member at a bactericidal temperature, and forming an empty resealable member and container body assembly defining a substantially sterile chamber therein. 17. A method as defined in claim 16, farther comprising: transferring the empty resealable member and container body assembly to a needle filling and laser sealing station; introducing a needle through the resealable member; aseptically filling the interior chamber by introducing substance through the needle and into the chamber; and withdrawing the needle from the resealable member and laser sealing the resulting needle hole in the resealable member. 18. A method as defined in claim 17, further comprising configuring the needle filling and laser sealing station in line with an assembly device with a barrier enclosure extending therebetween, and transferring the assembled container body and resealable member assembly from the assembly device, through the barrier enclosure, and into the needle filling and laser sealing station. 19. A method as defined in claim 18, wherein the container body and resealable member assembly is at a substantially ambient temperature during aseptic filling thereof. 20. An apparatus as defined in claim 1, wherein the container body and resealable member temperatures in each of steps (c) (i) and (c) (ii) are bactericidal. 