Compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of Tudor-SN. The compositions comprise oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acid encoding Tudor-SN. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of Tudor-SN expression and for diagnosis and treatment of diseases and conditions associated with expression of Tudor-SN are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An oligomeric compound 12 to 50 linked nucleosides in length having a nucleobase sequence comprising an at least 8 consecutive nucleobase portion of a nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 47, wherein said compound is at least 90% complementary to SEQ ID NO:4, and wherein the compound comprises at least one modified nucleobase, sugar, or internucleoside linkage. 2. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 which is 15 to 30 linked nucleosides in length. 3. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 which is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 4. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 wherein the modified sugar is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety, wherein the modified oligonucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage, and wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 5. The oligomeric compound of claim 1 which is single-stranded. 6. An oligomeric compound-RNA duplex wherein the oligomeric compound of the duplex is the compound of claim 1, and wherein the RNA of the duplex is an RNA that encodes at least the portion of SEQ ID NO:4 to which the oligomeric compound is complementary. 7. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1. 8. The composition of claim 7 further comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or carrier. 9. The oligomeric compound of claim 1, wherein the compound is 20 linked nucleosides in length. 10. The oligomeric compound of claim 1, wherein said compound is at least 95% complementary to SEQ ID NO:4. 11. The oligomeric compound of claim 1, wherein said compound is 100% complementary to SEQ ID NO:4. 12. The oligomeric compound of claim 1, wherein the compound further comprises: a gap segment consisting of linked 2'-deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides; and a 3' wing segment consisting of linked nucleosides, wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment and wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a modified sugar. 13. The oligomeric compound of claim 12, wherein the compound comprises: a gap segment consisting of ten linked 2'-deoxynucleosides; a 5' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides; and a 3' wing segment consisting of five linked nucleosides, wherein the gap segment is positioned between the 5' wing segment and the 3' wing segment, wherein each nucleoside of each wing segment comprises a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar, and wherein each internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 14. The oligomeric compound of claim 13, wherein said compound consists of 20 linked nucleosides. 15. The oligomeric compound of claim 14, wherein said compound comprises at least one cytidine, wherein said cytidine is a 5-methylcytidine. 16. The oligomeric compound of claim 15, wherein each cytidine is a 5-methylcytidine. 