Method and apparatus for indirect asset tracking in materials handling environments with Radio Frequency Identification (RFID). In one embodiment, receptacles in a materials handling facility may be equipped with RFID tags. Agents within the materials handling facility may be equipped with RFID readers, which may be integrated in or attached to gloves, wristbands, or other devices. The location of each receptacle to which an RFID tag is attached may be associated with the unique identifier of the RFID tag. When an agent's hand approaches or enters a receptacle equipped with an RFID tag, the RFID reader may detect the presence of the RFID tag. This information, in combination with known information such as the location of the receptacles, may be used, for example, for information gathering and/or for quality checking in picking, stowing, rebinning, and/or other materials handling processes.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A materials handling facility, comprising: a plurality of receptacles configured to receive one or more items of a plurality of items, wherein each receptacle is associated with a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tag, wherein each RFID tag stores a unique identifier, and wherein each of the plurality of items possesses an item identifier, but does not possess an RFID; one or more indirect asset tracking devices, wherein each indirect asset tracking device comprises an RFID reader, and wherein each indirect asset tracking device is configured to be worn on or attached to an extremity of an agent of the materials handling facility; and one or more item-identifier readers for reading the item identifiers for the plurality of items; wherein, when in proximity to an RFID tag associated with a particular receptacle, the RFID reader of an indirect asset tracking device is configured to read the unique identifier of the RFID tag associated with the particular receptacle, and to communicate the unique identifier of the RFID tag to a control system; wherein, for one of the items being placed into or removed from the particular receptacle, one of the one or more item-identifier readers is configured to read the item identifier for that item, and to communicate the item identifier to the control system; wherein the control system is configured to use the unique identifier from the RFID reader and the item identifier from the item-identifier reader to associate the particular receptacle with the item being placed into or removed from the particular receptacle. 2. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein the control system is configured to identify the particular receptacle to which the RFID reader of the indirect asset tracking device is proximate from the communicated unique identifier of the RFID tag associated with the particular receptacle. 3. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein the control system is further configured to inform the agent if the particular receptacle is an incorrect receptacle for a materials handling operation currently being performed by the agent. 4. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 3, wherein the materials handling operation is a pick operation in which the agent is picking an item from the particular receptacle. 5. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 3, wherein the materials handling operation is a pick operation in which the agent is picking an item to the particular receptacle. 6. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 3, wherein the materials handling operation is a stow operation in which the agent is stowing an item in the particular receptacle. 7. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 3, wherein the materials handling operation is a rebin operation in which the agent is rebinning an item to the particular receptacle. 8. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein the indirect asset tracking device is further configured to communicate the unique identifier of the RFID tag of the particular receptacle to the control system via wireless communication. 9. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein the control system is configured to store location information for each of the plurality of receptacles in the materials handling facility and a unique identifier of each RFID tag associated with each of the plurality of receptacles in the materials handling facility. 10. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 9, wherein the control system is further configured to find location information for the particular receptacle in the materials handling facility to which the RFID reader of the indirect asset tracking device is proximate by identifying the communicated unique identifier of the RFID tag with a stored unique identifier of an RFID tag associated with the particular receptacle. 11. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein the control system is configured to store a unique identifier for each indirect asset tracking device in the materials handling facility with identification information for an agent to which the indirect asset tracking device has been assigned. 12. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of receptacles are located on storage units in stock storage of the materials handling facility, wherein each storage unit comprises one or more receptacles. 13. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein each RFID tag is integrated with an associated receptacle. 14. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein each RFID tag is attached to an associated receptacle. 15. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein one or more of the receptacles are pick-to receptacles configured to be carried on one or more mobile carts configured for picking items from inventory of the materials handling facility. 16. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein the RFID tags are passive RFID tags. 17. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein the RFID reader is integrated with the indirect asset tracking device. 18. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein the RFID reader is configured to be attached to the indirect asset tracking device. 19. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein the indirect asset tracking device is a glove configured to be worn on a hand of a human agent. 20. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein the indirect asset tracking device is a wristband configured to be worn on or attached to a wrist or lower arm of a human agent. 21. The materials handling facility as recited in claim 1, wherein said reading the unique identifier of the RFID tag of the particular receptacle frees the agent from scanning or otherwise entering the particular receptacle into the control system of the materials handling facility. 22. A method, comprising: equipping each of at least a portion of a plurality of receptacles with a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tag, wherein each RFID tag stores a unique identifier, and wherein the plurality of receptacles are configured to receive one or more items of a plurality of items in a materials handling facility, wherein each of the plurality of items possesses an item identifier, but does not possess an RFID; equipping one or more agents of the materials handling facility with one or more indirect asset tracking devices, wherein each indirect asset tracking device comprises an RFID reader, and wherein each indirect asset tracking device is configured to be worn on or attached to an extremity of the agent; and providing one or more item-identifier readers for reading the item identifiers for the plurality of items; the RFID reader of one of the one or more indirect asset tracking devices reading the unique identifier of the RFID tag associated with a particular receptacle when indirect asset tracking devices is in proximity to the RFID tag of a particular receptacle, and communicating the unique identifier of the RFID tag to a control system; one of the one or more item-identifier readers reading the item identifier for one of the items being placed into or removed from the particular receptacle, and communicating the item identifier to the control system; and the control system using the unique identifier from the RFID reader and the item identifier from the item-identifier reader to associate the particular receptacle with the item being placed into or removed from the particular receptacle. 23. The method as recited in claim 22, further comprising identifying the particular receptacle to which the RFID reader of the indirect asset tracking device is proximate from the communicated unique identifier of the RFID tag. 24. The method as recited in claim 22, further comprising informing the agent if the particular receptacle is an incorrect receptacle for a materials handling operation currently being performed by the agent. 25. The method as recited in claim 24, wherein the materials handling operation is a pick operation in which the agent is picking an item from the particular receptacle. 26. The method as recited in claim 24, wherein the materials handling operation is a pick operation in which the agent is picking an item to the particular receptacle. 27. The method as recited in claim 24, wherein the materials handling operation is a stow operation in which the agent is stowing an item in the particular receptacle. 28. The method as recited in claim 24, wherein the materials handling operation is a rebin operation in which the agent is rebinning an item to the particular receptacle. 29. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said communicating the unique identifier of the RFID tag of the particular receptacle from the indirect asset tracking device to a control system of the materials handling facility is performed in accordance with wireless communication. 30. The method as recited in claim 22, further comprising storing on the control system location information for each of the plurality of receptacles in the materials handling facility and a unique identifier of each RFID tag associated with each of the plurality of receptacles in the materials handling facility. 31. The method as recited in claim 30, further comprising finding location information for the particular receptacle in the materials handling facility to which the RFID reader of the indirect asset tracking device is proximate by identifying the communicated unique identifier of the RFID tag with a stored unique identifier of an RFID tag associated with the particular receptacle. 32. The method as recited in claim 22, further comprising storing a unique identifier for each indirect asset tracking device in the materials handling facility with identification information for an agent to which the indirect asset tracking device has been assigned on the control system. 33. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of receptacles are located on storage units in stock storage of the materials handling facility, wherein each storage unit comprises one or more receptacles. 34. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein each RFID tag is integrated with an associated receptacle. 35. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein each RFID tag is attached to an associated receptacle. 36. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein one or more of the receptacles are pick-to receptacles configured to be carried on one or more mobile carts configured for picking items from inventory of the materials handling facility. 37. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein the RFID tags are passive RFID tags. 38. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein the RFID reader is integrated with the indirect asset tracking device. 39. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein the RFID reader is configured to be attached to the indirect asset tracking device. 40. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein the indirect asset tracking device is a glove configured to be worn on a hand of a human agent. 41. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein the indirect asset tracking device is a wristband configured to be worn on or attached to a wrist or lower arm of a human agent. 42. The method as recited in claim 22, wherein said reading the unique identifier of the RFID tag of the particular receptacle frees the agent from scanning or otherwise entering the particular receptacle into the control system of the materials handling facility. 43. A computer-accessible storage medium comprising program instructions, wherein the program instructions are computer-executable to implement a control system configured to perform: receiving from an indirect asset tracking device a unique identifier read from a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tag of a particular receptacle in a materials handling facility in response to the indirect asset tracking device being in proximity to the RFID tag of the particular receptacle; wherein the particular receptacle is one of a plurality of receptacles each configured to receive one or more items of a plurality of items in the materials handling facility, wherein each of the plurality of receptacles is associated with an RFID tag, wherein each RFID tag stores a unique identifier, and wherein each of the plurality of items possesses an item identifier, but does not possess an RFID; wherein each of one or more agents of the materials handling facility is equipped with one or more indirect asset tracking devices, wherein each indirect asset tracking device comprises an RFID reader configured to read RFID tags, and wherein each indirect asset tracking device is configured to be worn on or attached to an extremity of the agent; receiving an item identifier for an item being placed into or removed from the particular receptacle, wherein the item identifier is read by an item-identifier reader; using the received unique identifier and the received item identifier to associate the particular receptacle with the item being placed into or removed from the particular receptacle. 44. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein the program instructions are further configured to implement informing the agent if the particular receptacle is an incorrect receptacle for a materials handling operation currently being performed by the agent. 45. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 44, wherein the materials handling operation is a pick operation in which the agent is picking an item from the particular receptacle. 46. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 44, wherein the materials handling operation is a pick operation in which the agent is picking an item to the particular receptacle. 47. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 44, wherein the materials handling operation is a stow operation in which the agent is stowing an item in the particular receptacle. 48. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 44, wherein the materials handling operation is a rebin operation in which the agent is rebinning an item to the particular receptacle. 49. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein said receiving the unique identifier of the RFID tag of the particular receptacle from the indirect asset tracking device by the control system of the materials handling facility is performed in accordance with wireless communication. 50. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein the program instructions are further configured to implement storing on the control system location information for each of the plurality of receptacles in the materials handling facility and the unique identifier of the RFID tag associated with each of the plurality of receptacles in the materials handling facility. 51. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 50, wherein the program instructions are further configured to implement finding location information for the particular receptacle in the materials handling facility to which the RFID reader of the indirect asset tracking device is proximate by identifying the communicated unique identifier of the RFID tag with the stored unique identifier of the RFID tag associated with the particular receptacle. 52. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein the program instructions are further configured to implement storing a unique identifier for each indirect asset tracking device in the materials handling facility with identification information for an agent to which the indirect asset tracking device has been assigned on the control system. 53. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of receptacles are located on storage units in stock storage of the materials handling facility, wherein each storage unit comprises one or more receptacles. 54. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein each RFID tag is integrated with an associated receptacle. 55. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein each RFID tag is attached to an associated receptacle. 56. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein one or more of the receptacles are pick-to receptacles configured to be carried on one or more mobile carts configured for picking items from inventory of the materials handling facility. 57. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein the RFID tags are passive RFID tags. 58. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein the RFID reader is integrated with the indirect asset tracking device. 59. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein the RFID reader is configured to be attached to the indirect asset tracking device. 60. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein the indirect asset tracking device is a glove configured to be worn on a hand of a human agent. 61. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein the indirect asset tracking device is a wristband configured to be worn on or attached to a wrist or lower arm of a human agent. 62. The computer-accessible medium as recited in claim 43, wherein said reading the unique identifier of the RFID tag of the particular receptacle frees the agent from scanning or otherwise entering the particular receptacle into a control system of the materials handling facility. 63. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and a memory comprising program instructions, wherein the program instructions are executable by the one or more processors to implement a control system configured to: receive from a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) reader a unique identifier read from an RFID tag of a particular receptacle in a materials handling facility to which the RFID reader is proximate; wherein the particular receptacle is one of a plurality of receptacles configured to receive one or more items of a plurality of items in the materials handling facility, wherein each of the plurality of receptacles is equipped with an RFID tag, wherein each RFID tag stores a unique identifier, and wherein each of the plurality of items possesses an item identifier, but does not possess an RFID; receive an item identifier for an item being placed into or removed from the particular receptacle, wherein the item identifier is read by an item-identifier reader; use the received unique identifier and the received item identifier to associate the particular receptacle with the item being placed into or removed from the particular receptacle. 64. The system as recited in claim 63, wherein the RFID reader is integrated with or attached to an indirect asset tracking device, and wherein the indirect asset tracking device is configured to be worn on or attached to an extremity of an agent of the materials handling facility. 65. The system as recited in claim 64, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the one or more processors to store a unique identifier for the RFID reader in the materials handling facility with identification information for the agent to which the indirect asset tracking device is assigned. 66. The system as recited in claim 64, wherein the indirect asset tracking device is a glove configured to be worn on a hand of a human agent. 67. The system as recited in claim 64, wherein the indirect asset tracking device is a wristband configured to be worn on or attached to a wrist or lower arm of a human agent. 68. The system as recited in claim 63, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the one or more processors to store location information for each of the plurality of receptacles in the materials handling facility and the unique identifier of the RFID tag associated with each of the plurality of receptacles in the materials handling facility. 69. The system as recited in claim 68, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the one or more processors to find location information for the particular receptacle in the materials handling facility to which the RFID reader of the indirect asset tracking device is proximate by identifying the received unique identifier of the RFID tag with the stored unique identifier of the RFID tag associated with the particular receptacle. 70. The system as recited in claim 63, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the one or more processors to inform an agent of the materials handling facility if the particular receptacle is an incorrect receptacle for a materials handling operation currently being performed by the agent. 71. The system as recited in claim 70, wherein the materials handling operation is a pick operation in which the agent is picking an item from the particular receptacle. 72. The system as recited in claim 70, wherein the materials handling operation is a pick operation in which the agent is picking an item to the particular receptacle. 73. The system as recited in claim 70, wherein the materials handling operation is a stow operation in which the agent is stowing an item in the particular receptacle. 74. The system as recited in claim 70, wherein the materials handling operation is a rebin operation in which the agent is rebinning an item to the particular receptacle. 75. The system as recited in claim 63, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of receptacles are located on storage units in stock storage of the materials handling facility, wherein each storage unit comprises one or more receptacles. 76. The system as recited in claim 63, wherein one or more of the receptacles are pick-to receptacles configured to be carried on one or more mobile carts configured for picking items from inventory of the materials handling facility. 77. The system as recited in claim 63, wherein the RFID tag is a passive RFID tag. 78. An indirect asset tracking device, comprising: an apparatus for wearing on or attaching to an extremity of an agent of a materials handling facility; a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) reader configured to: read a unique identifier of an RFID tag associated with a particular receptacle within the materials handling facility when in proximity to the RFID tag, wherein the particular receptacle is one of a plurality of receptacles configured to receive one or more items of a plurality of items within the materials handling facility, wherein each receptacle is associated with a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tags, wherein each RFID tag stores a unique identifier, and wherein each of the plurality of items possesses an item identifier, but does not possess an RFID; and communicate the unique identifier of the RFID tag associated with the particular receptacle from the indirect asset tracking device to a control system of the materials handling facility; and an item-identifier reader configured to read the item identifier for one of the plurality of items being placed into or removed from the particular receptacle, and to communicate the read item identifier to the control system. 79. The indirect asset tracking device as recited in claim 78, wherein the control system is configured to: identify the particular receptacle to which the RFID reader of the indirect asset tracking device is proximate from the communicated unique identifier of the RFID tag associated with the particular receptacle; and inform an agent of the materials handling facility if the particular receptacle is an incorrect receptacle for a materials handling operation currently being performed by the agent. 80. The indirect asset tracking device as recited in claim 79, wherein the materials handling operation is a pick operation in which the agent is picking an item from the particular receptacle. 81. The indirect asset tracking device as recited in claim 79, wherein the materials handling operation is a pick operation in which the agent is picking an item to the particular receptacle. 82. The indirect asset tracking device as recited in claim 79, wherein the materials handling operation is a stow operation in which the agent is stowing an item in the particular receptacle. 83. The indirect asset tracking device as recited in claim 79, wherein the materials handling operation is a rebin operation in which the agent is rebinning an item to the particular receptacle. 84. The indirect asset tracking device as recited in claim 78, wherein the apparatus is a glove configured to be worn on the hand of a human agent. 85. The indirect asset tracking device as recited in claim 78, wherein the apparatus is a wristband configured to be worn on or attached to a wrist or lower arm of a human agent. 