A predictive device system includes a first device motion control input, determines a desired first device motion using the first device motion control input, and provides actual first device motion using the first device motion control input. The predictive system also determines motion inherent in a received signal using the actual first device motion, determines a difference to be simulated in a second device signal using the desired first device motion and the motion inherent in the received signal, and outputs a predictive signal using the first device motion control input and the difference to be simulated in the second device signal.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for videoconferencing in a mutually-immersive mobile telepresence system having a surrogate and a display cube, the method comprising: receiving a first device motion control input to move a camera position of the surrogate during a videoconference; determining a desired first device motion using the first device motion control input; providing actual first device motion using the first device motion control input; determining motion inherent in a received signal using the actual first device motion; determining a difference to be simulated in a second device signal at the display cube using the desired first device motion and the motion inherent in the received signal; and outputting a predictive signal on a screen at the display cube during the videoconference using the first device motion control input and the difference to be simulated in the second device signal. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising, displaying the predictive signal on plural screens in the display cube. 3. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising, controlling movement of a camera of the surrogate from the display cube. 4. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising: providing a second device receptive to the second device signal; using the predictive signal to simulate action in the second device; and determining a difference between the second device signal and the predictive signal on the second device; and processing the predictive signal to be larger than signals on the second device. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising: outputting a plurality of predictive signals; providing a plurality of second devices receptive to a plurality of second device signals that include the second device signal; using the plurality of predictive signals to simulate action in the plurality of second devices; and providing a range of compensations for the plurality of second device signals to seam the plurality of second device signals together. 6. A method for videoconferencing in a mutually-immersive mobile telepresence system having a robotic device and a display cube, the method comprising: providing a camera motion control input from the display cube during a videoconference; determining a desired camera motion, on the robotic device at a remote location from the display cube, using the camera motion control input; providing actual camera motion on the robotic device using the camera motion control input; determining motion inherent in a received video signal using the actual camera motion; determining a difference to be simulated in a display video signal using the desired camera motion and the motion inherent in the received video signal; and outputting a predictive video display on a screen at the display cube during the videoconference using the camera motion control input and the difference to be simulated in the display video signal. 7. The method as claimed in claim 6 further comprising, projecting the predictive video display on plural screens located on walls of the display cube. 8. The method as claimed in claim 6 further comprising: providing a display system; simulating pan, tilt, zooming out, and translation camera motions by skewing and vertically moving the predictive video display; and processing space between a display on the display system and the predictive video display by texture extension. 9. The method as claimed in claim 6 further comprising: providing a display system; simulating pan, tilt, zooming out, and translation camera motions by skewing and vertically moving the predictive video display; and processing the predictive video display to be larger than a display on the display system to provide a guard ring. 10. The method as claimed in claim 6 further comprising: outputting a plurality of predictive video displays from a plurality of cameras; providing a plurality of display systems; simulating pan, tilt, zooming out, and translation camera motions by skewing and vertically moving the plurality of predictive video displays; and providing a range of compensations for the plurality of predictive video displays on the plurality of display systems to seam the plurality of display systems together. 11. A predictive device system for videoconferencing comprising: a display cube including a screen and a first device that: controls movement of a camera on a robotic device that is remote from the display cube during a videoconference; provides a first device motion control input, and provides actual first device motion using the first device motion control input; a computer system that: determines a desired first device motion using the first device motion control input, determines motion inherent in a received signal using the actual first device motion, determines a difference to be simulated in a second device signal using the desired first device motion and the motion inherent in the received signal, and outputs a predictive signal on the screen at the display cube during the videoconference using the first device motion control input and the difference to be simulated in the second device signal. 12. The system as claimed in claim 11 further comprising: a second device receptive to the second device signal for using the predictive signal to simulate action in the second device; and the computer system for: determining a difference between the second device signal and the predictive signal, and processing the difference to provide an indication of the difference. 13. The system as claimed in claim 11 further comprising: a second device receptive to the second device signal for using the predictive signal to simulate action in the second device; and the computer system for: determining a difference between the second device signal and the predictive signal on the second device, and processing the predictive signal to change the predictive signal to remove the difference. 14. The system as claimed in claim 11 further comprising: a second device receptive to the second device signal for using the predictive signal to simulate action in the second device; and the computer system for: determining a difference between the second device signal and the predictive signal on the second device, and processing the predictive signal to be larger than a signal for the second device. 15. The system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the computer system is for outputting a plurality of predictive signals; a plurality of second devices receptive to a plurality of second device signals; the computer system for: using the plurality of predictive signals to simulate action in the plurality of second devices; and providing a range of compensations for the plurality of predictive signals to seam the plurality of predictive signals together for the plurality of second devices. 16. The system as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the first device is for: providing a camera motion control input, and providing actual camera motion using the camera motion control input; the computer system is for: determining a desired camera motion using the camera motion control input, determining motion inherent in a received video signal using the actual camera motion, determining a difference to be simulated in a display video signal using the desired camera motion and the motion inherent in the received video signal, and outputting a predictive video display using the camera motion control input and the difference to be simulated in the display video signal. 17. The system as claimed in claim 16 further comprising: a display system; the computer system is for: simulating pan, tilt, zooming out, and translation camera motions by skewing and vertically moving the predictive video display, and processing space between a display on the display system and the predictive video display by coloring the space. 18. The system as claimed in claim 16 further comprising: a display system; the computer system is for: simulating pan, tilt, zooming out, and translation camera motions by skewing and vertically moving the predictive video display, and processing space between a display on the display system and the predictive video display by texture extension. 19. The system as claimed in claim 16 further comprising: a display system; the computer system is for: simulating pan, tilt, zooming out, and translation camera motions by skewing and vertically moving the predictive video display, and processing the predictive video display to be larger than a display on the display system to provide a guard ring. 20. The system as claimed in claim 16 further comprising: a plurality of cameras for providing surround live video; a plurality of display systems; the computer system for: simulating pan, tilt, zooming out, and translation camera motions by skewing and vertically moving a plurality of predictive video displays, and providing a range of compensations for the plurality of predictive video displays on the plurality of display systems to seam the plurality of display systems together. 