The invention relates generally to dispensing of fluids and, in particular, to methods and systems for dispensing microfluidic or sub-microfluidic volumes of droplets of chemical, biological or other reagents or liquids. Embodiments of the invention have particular efficacy in accurately dispensing small drops having volumes from about 100 nL down into the picoliter range.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of accurately dispensing sub-microfluidic droplets of a liquid onto or into a target supported on a table, comprising: providing a dispensing system comprising a substantially inert fluid path and a dispensing tip having a nozzle and a droplet emitting orifice at a distal end; generating an electric field between said tip and said table by maintaining said tip at a first potential and said table at a second potential; positively displacing said liquid through said tip to dispense droplets onto or into said target with said electric field providing a bias that facilitates droplet ejection and release from said tip so that droplets having a volume of less than about one microliter are reliably dispensed; and flowing ionized air over said nozzle to induce a hydrophobic effect. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said electric field provides a gradient substantially parallel to the intended droplet trajectory. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said method further comprises providing a ring electrode at a third potential and positioned intermediate said tip and said target and/or table. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein said method further comprises adjusting said first, second and third potentials to control droplet impact velocity on said target. 5. The method of claim 3, wherein said first and said second potentials are substantially the same while said third potential is lower so that droplet impact velocity is substantially a function of ejection velocity. 6. The method of claim 3, wherein said first potential is lower than said second potentials while said third potential is lower than both so that droplet impact velocity is reduced compared to that without any electric field. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said electric field perturbs the fluid meniscus at said orifice to form a Taylor cone and said method further comprises applying a superimposed positive displacement pulse to aid in ejection of said droplets from said orifice. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said method further comprises maintaining a voltage difference between said nozzle and said liquid therein. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said nozzle has an outer surface coated with a conductive layer except for a portion at said distal end of said tip. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said method further comprises controlling the surface charge on said target. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein a hydraulic source positively displaces said liquid. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein a pneumatic source positively displaces said liquid. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said droplets have a volume less than about 100 nanoliters. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said electric field is in the range from about 0.5 kV to about 5 kV. 15. The method of claim 3, wherein said ring electrode is integrated with said tip. 16. The method of claim 3, wherein said ring electrode is movable from under said tip. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein positive displacement pulses provide said liquid to said tip. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said displacement pulses are substantially synchronized with motion of said tip and/or said target. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said method further comprises providing electric field pulses. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein said field pulses are substantially synchronized with said displacement pulses. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein said field pulses and said displacement pulses are offset by a phase lag or lead. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein said field pulses and said displacement pulses are substantially synchronized with motion of said tip and/or said target. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein said pulses are variable in pulse time and magnitude. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein said method further comprises providing an array of tips. 25. The method of claim 24, wherein adjacent tips are spaced by at least 2 mm. 26. The method of claim 1, wherein said method further comprises pressurizing a reservoir containing said liquid to be dispensed to a degassing high first pressure by providing a static pressure from a helium source over said liquid to degas said liquid. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein said method further comprises reducing said first pressure in said reservoir to a low second pressure. 28. The method of claim 27, wherein said method further comprises venting said reservoir to ambient conditions. 29. The method of claim 27, wherein said method further comprises operating a pump connected to said reservoir to draw said liquid from said reservoir into said pump. 30. The method of claim 1, wherein said tip has a first conduit and a second conduit having a drop emitting orifice with said conduits being angled with respect to one another. 31. The method of claim 30, wherein said tip comprises a shaped surface proximate to a junction between said conduits to direct said liquid from said first conduit towards said orifice. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein said first conduit and said second conduit are substantially perpendicular to one another. 33. The method of claim 32, wherein said shaped surface comprises a substantially uniform bevel. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein said bevel is angled relative to said first and said second conduits by an angle substantially equal to half the angle between said first and said second conduits. 35. The method of claim 32, wherein said shaped surface comprises a contoured and/or curved surface. 36. The method of claim 1, wherein said method further comprises providing an elastic element in the fluid path. 37. The method of claim 1, wherein said method further comprises providing a constrictor in the fluid path. 38. The method of claim 1, wherein said method further comprises providing a dampener in the fluid path. 39. The method of claim 1, wherein said liquid comprises a reagent. 40. A method of accurately dispensing sub-microfluidic droplets of a liquid onto or into a target supported on a table, comprising: providing a dispensing system comprising a substantially inert fluid path and a dispensing tip having a nozzle and a droplet emitting orifice at a distal end; generating an electric field between said tip and said table by maintaining said tip at a first potential and said table at a second potential; positively displacing said liquid through said tip to dispense droplets onto or into said target with said electric field providing a bias that facilitates droplet ejection and release from said tip so that droplets having a volume of less than about one microliter are reliably dispensed; and maintaining a voltage difference between said nozzle and said liquid therein; wherein said nozzle has an outer surface coated with a conductive layer except for a portion at said distal end of said tip. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein said electric field provides a gradient substantially parallel to the intended droplet trajectory. 42. The method of claim 40, wherein said method further comprises providing a ring electrode at a third potential and positioned intermediate said tip and said target and/or table. 43. The method of claim 42, wherein said method further comprises adjusting said first, second and third potentials to control droplet impact velocity on said target. 44. The method of claim 42, wherein said first and said second potentials are substantially the same while said third potential is lower so that droplet impact velocity is substantially a function of ejection velocity. 45. The method of claim 42, wherein said first potential is lower than said second potentials while said third potential is lower than both so that droplet impact velocity is reduced compared to that without any electric field. 46. The method of claim 42, wherein said ring electrode is integrated with said tip. 47. The method of claim 42, wherein said ring electrode is movable from under said tip. 48. The method of claim 40, wherein said electric field perturbs the fluid meniscus at said orifice to form a Taylor cone and said method further comprises applying a superimposed positive displacement pulse to aid in ejection of said droplets from said orifice. 49. The method of claim 40, wherein said liquid comprises a reagent. 50. The method of claim 40, wherein said method further comprises controlling the surface charge on said target. 51. The method of claim 40, wherein a hydraulic source positively displaces said liquid. 52. The method of claim 40, wherein a pneumatic source positively displaces said liquid. 53. The method of claim 40, wherein said droplets have a volume less than about 100 nanoliters. 54. The method of claim 40, wherein said electric field is in the range from about 0.5 kV to about 5 kV. 55. The method of claim 40, wherein positive displacement pulses provide said liquid to said tip. 56. The method of claim 55, wherein said displacement pulses are substantially synchronized with motion of said tip and/or said target. 57. The method of claim 55, wherein said method further comprises providing electric field pulses. 58. The method of claim 57, wherein said field pulses are substantially synchronized with said displacement pulses. 59. The method of claim 57, wherein said field pulses and said displacement pulses are offset by a phase lag or lead. 60. The method of claim 57, wherein said field pulses and said displacement pulses are substantially synchronized with motion of said tip and/or said target. 61. The method of claim 57, wherein said pulses are variable in pulse time and magnitude. 62. The method of claim 40, wherein said method further comprises providing an array of tips. 63. The method of claim 62, wherein adjacent tips are spaced by at least 2mm. 64. The method of claim 40, wherein said method further comprises pressurizing a reservoir containing said liquid to be dispensed to a degassing high first pressure by providing a static pressure from a helium source over said liquid to degas said liquid. 65. The method of claim 64, wherein said method further comprises reducing said first pressure in said reservoir to a low second pressure. 66. The method of claim 65, wherein said method further comprises venting said reservoir to ambient conditions. 67. The method of claim 65, wherein said method further comprises operating a pump connected to said reservoir to draw said liquid from said reservoir into said pump. 68. The method of claim 40, wherein said tip has a first conduit and a second conduit having a drop emitting orifice with said conduits being angled with respect to one another. 69. The method of claim 68, wherein said tip comprises a shaped surface proximate to a junction between said conduits to direct said liquid from said first conduit towards said orifice. 70. The method of claim 69, wherein said first conduit and said second conduit are substantially perpendicular to one another. 71. The method of claim 70, wherein said shaped surface comprises a substantially uniform bevel. 72. The method of claim 71, wherein said bevel is angled relative to said first and said second conduits by an angle substantially equal to half the angle between said first and said second conduits. 73. The method of claim 70, wherein said shaped surface comprises a contoured and/or curved surface. 74. The method of claim 40, wherein said method further comprises providing an elastic element in the fluid path. 75. The method of claim 40, wherein said method further comprises providing a constrictor in the fluid path. 76. The method of claim 40, wherein said method further comprises providing a dampener in the fluid path. 