A low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source, comprising a plasma-forming region for injection of a plasma-forming gas; an excitation region for injection of a source of reactive species downstream of the plasma-forming region; and a narrow converging plasma exit for producing a narrow plasma jet, the source being electrically decoupled from a substrate under treatment by the plasma jet. The present source may find applications for example for skin treatment, etching of skin cancer cells, detachment of cells, removal of skin pigmentation and deposition of temporary organic films.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source, comprising: a ground electrode, provided on an external surface of a dielectric plasma confinement tube; and a capillary electrode centered inside said ground electrode; wherein a space, along the length of said confinement tube, between said capillary electrode and said ground electrode, defines a plasma-forming and plasma-confinement region, a plasma-forming gas being injected in said plasma-forming region; said capillary electrode being able to receive a source of reactive species for injection downstream of the plasma-forming and plasma-confinement region independently of the plasma-forming gas injected in said plasma-forming and plasma-confinement region and said source of reactive species is capable of producing reactive species from a variety of gas, said plasma source producing a plasma jet through a converging plasma exit. 2. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 1, a converging nozzle of said plasma confinement tube forming said converging plasma exit. 3. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 1, further comprising a source of reactive species. 4. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 3, the source of reactive species being conveyed through one of: i) said capillary electrode, ii) air entrained in the plasma, and iii) the plasma-forming gas. 5. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 1, the plasma-forming gas being one of He, Ar and N.sub.2. 6. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 1, wherein the plasma is induced using a radio-frequency excitation. 7. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 6, the radio-frequency excitation being generated by an amplitude-modulated waveform generator. 8. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 1, operating at a power less than 5 W and voltage levels less than 600 V.sub.pk-to-0. 9. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 1, the plasma-forming gas being He at a few SLM, the plasma jet produced having a diameter of less than 500 .mu.m and a length of about 2.5 mm a breakdown voltage being about 220 V.sub.pk-to-0. 10. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 1, a temperature of said plasma jet being compatible with bio-applications. 11. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 10, the temperature of said plasma jet being less that 50.degree. C. for a power level of about 1 W. 12. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 2, further comprising a first injection line for injecting the plasma-forming gas in the space between said capillary electrode and said plasma confinement tube; and a second injection line for injecting the source of reactive gas in one of said capillary electrode and said space. 13. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 1, said source being one of: i) handheld and ii) mounted on a robotic arm. 14. A plasma-assisted treatment system, comprising: a low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source according to claim 2; a radio frequency signal generator-amplifier-matching network system for powering the capillary electrode of said low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source; and a gas delivery unit, which supplies gases to said low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source. 15. The low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 1, used for at least one of: i) cell detachment, ii) surface functionalization and iii) cell permeabilization. 16. A method for cell modification using the low-power atmospheric pressure plasma source of claim 1. 