A cover for a robot which includes an electrostatic spray gun with a nozzle which sprays charged material. The cover includes an insulating layer adapted to generally surround the robot except at an aperture where the nozzle extends from the cover. The cover also includes a conductor on the insulating layer near the aperture and spaced apart from the robot. A charge source provides an electric charge to the conductor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A cover for a robot, the robot including an electrostatic spray gun including a nozzle to spray an electrically charged material on to an object, the cover comprising: an insulator at least partially surrounding the robot during use of the cover, the insulator including an aperture to allow the nozzle of the spray gun to extend from the cover; a conductor in the form of a chargeable conductive layer in contact with the insulator over a surface area of the insulator near the aperture; and a charge source coupled to the conductor to electrically charge the conductor. 2. The cover according to claim 1, wherein the conductor contacts a forward inside surface of the insulator. 3. The cover according to claim 1, wherein the conductor contacts a front, top surface of the insulator. 4. The cover according to claim 1, the insulator further comprising a laminated foam. 5. The cover according to claim 1, the conductor further comprising a metallic mesh. 6. The cover according to claim 1, the conductor further comprising a band. 7. The cover according to claim 1, the conductor further comprising a ring. 8. A method of painting using the cover for a robot of claim 1, the robot including an electrostatic spray gun including a nozzle to spray an electrically charged paint material on to an object, the method comprising: covering the robot with the insulator of the cover, such that the nozzle extends from the aperture of the insulator; charging the conductor of the cover with the same polarity charge as the paint material spraying from the spray gun; and spraying the object with the paint material. 9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising placing the conductor in area contact with a forward, inside surface of the insulator around the aperture. 10. The method according to claim 8, further comprising placing the conductor in area contact over a front, top surface of the cover. 11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising placing the insulator of the cover between the conductor and the spray gun. 12. The method of claim 8, further comprising charging the object with an electric charge opposite that of the charge on the material, and positioning the object to be sprayed with the material. 13. The method of claim 8, wherein the object further comprises a car. 14. A cover for a robot in combination with a robot, the combination comprising: a robot including an electrostatic spray gun including a nozzle to spray an electrically charged material on to an object; and a cover for the robot, the cover comprising: an insulator at least partially surrounding the robot, the insulator including an aperture, the nozzle of the spray gun extending from the aperture; a conductor in the form of a chargeable conductive layer spaced apart from the robot and in contact with a surface area of the insulator near the aperture; and an electric charge source coupled to the conductor to charge the conductor with a charge opposite to the charge of the material to be sprayed. 15. The combination of claim 14, wherein the material further comprises paint. 16. The combination of claim 14, wherein the insulator further comprises a laminated foam. 17. The combination of claim 14, wherein the conductor further comprises a wire mesh. 18. The combination of 14, wherein the conductor further comprises a band. 19. The combination of 14, wherein the conductor further comprises a ring. 20. The combination of claim 14, wherein the conductor coupled to a forward inside surface of the cover. 21. A cover for a robot in combination with a robot, the combination comprising: a robot including an electrostatic spray gun including a nozzle to spray an electrically charged material on to an object; and a cover for the robot, the cover comprising: an insulator at least partially surrounding the robot, the insulator including an aperture, the nozzle of the spray gun extending from the aperture; a conductor in the form of a chargeable conductive layer spaced apart from the robot and in contact with a surface area of the insulator near the aperture, wherein the conductor is coupled to a front, top surface of the insulator; and an electric charge source coupled to the conductor to charge the conductor with a charge opposite to the charge of the material to be sprayed. 