A method for causing a membrane to become permeable to a first chemical species, in which the membrane is contacted with a solution comprising a second chemical species. The membrane comprises a polyelectrolyte complex film comprising a positively-charged polyelectrolyte and a negatively-charged polyelectrolyte. The second chemical species selectively interacts with the membrane, and selective interaction of the second chemical species with the membrane causes the membrane to become permeable to the first chemical species, thereby causing the first chemical species to permeate the membrane.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for causing a membrane to become permeable to a first chemical species, the method comprising: contacting the membrane with a solution comprising a second chemical species, wherein (1) the membrane comprises a polyelectrolyte complex film, the polyelectrolyte complex film comprising a positively-charged polyelectrolyte and a negatively-charged polyelectrolyte, (2) the second chemical species selectively interacts with the membrane, and (3) selective interaction of the second chemical species with the membrane causes the membrane to become permeable to the first chemical species, thereby causing the first chemical species to permeate the membrane. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the selective interaction of the second chemical species with the membrane is measured by a distribution coefficient, K, wherein K is a ratio of a concentration of the second chemical species in the membrane to a concentration of the second chemical species in the solution, and the value of K at equilibrium is greater than 2. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the value of K at equilibrium is greater than 10. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein the value of K at equilibrium is greater than 100. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises multiple contact points for a polyvalent species comprising ion pairing groups and the second chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is the polyvalent species. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the polyvalent species has a net charge greater than 2 or a net charge less than 2-. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the polyvalent species is hexacyanocobaltate ion. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises a polynucleotide and the second chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is a complementary polynucleotide sequence. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises a polypeptide and the second chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is a complementary polypeptide. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises an antibody and the second chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is a complementary antigen. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises an antigen and the second chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is a complementary antibody. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the polyelectrolyte complex film comprises an enzyme selected from the group consisting of metalloenzymes, metallothioneins, and calmodulin and the second chemical species that interacts selectively with the polyelectrolyte complex film is a metal ion for which the enzyme is selective. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the negatively-charged polyelectrolyte comprises charged repeat units selected from the group consisting of styrenesulfonic acid, 2-acrylamido-2-methyl-1-propane sulfonic acid, sulfonated lignin, ethylenesulfonic acid, methacryloxyethylsulfonic acid, sulfonated ether ether ketone; and the positively-charged polyelectrolyte comprises charged repeat units selected from the group consisting of diallyldimethylammonium, vinylbenzyltrimethylammonium, ionenes, acryloxyethyltrimethyl ammonium chloride, methacryloxy (2-hydroxy)propyltrimethyl ammonium, N-methylvinylpyridinium, other N-alkylvinyl pyridiniums, N-aryl vinyl pyridinium, alkyl- or aryl imidazolium, crylic acids, methacrylic acid, carboxylic acids, pyridines, imidazoles, piperidines, and primary, secondary, or tertiary amines. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the membrane forms a hollow capsule, the first chemical species is initially located inside the capsule, and selective interaction of the second chemical species with the membrane causes the hollow capsule to release the first chemical species. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the membrane forms a hollow capsule, the first chemical species is initially located outside the capsule, and selective interaction of the second chemical species with the membrane causes the capsule to become loaded with the first chemical species. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the negatively-charged polyelectrolyte comprises polynucleotide; and the positively-charged polyelectrolyte comprises charged repeat units selected from the group consisting of diallyldimethylammonium, vinylbenzyltrimethylammonium, ionenes, acryloxyethyltrimethyl ammonium chloride, methacryloxy (2-hydroxy)propyltrimethyl ammonium, N-methylvinylpyridinium, other N-alkylvinyl pyridiniums, N-aryl vinyl pyridinium, alkyl- or aryl imidazolium, crylic acids, methacrylic acid, carboxylic acids, pyridines, imidazoles, piperidines, and primary, secondary, or tertiary amines. 