This invention is a method and supporting apparatus for autonomously capturing, servicing and de-orbiting a free-flying spacecraft, such as a satellite, using robotics. The capture of the spacecraft includes the steps of optically seeking and ranging the satellite using LIDAR, and matching tumble rates, rendezvousing and berthing with the satellite. Servicing of the spacecraft may be done using supervised autonomy, which is allowing a robot to execute a sequence of instructions without intervention from a remote human-occupied location. These instructions may be packaged at the remote station in a script and uplinked to the robot for execution upon remote command giving authority to proceed. Alternately, the instructions may be generated by Artificial Intelligence (AI) logic onboard the robot. In either case, the remote operator maintains the ability to abort an instruction or script at any time as well as the ability to intervene using manual override to teleoperate the robot.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, comprising the steps of: a) autonomously identifying the first spacecraft, b) autonomously pursuing the first spacecraft with the second spacecraft, and c) securing the first spacecraft to the second spacecraft using an attachment device, wherein the first spacecraft is autonomously identified by the second spacecraft by comparing file images of the first spacecraft with real time images of the first spacecraft collected by the second spacecraft. 2. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the attachment device includes a robotic grappling arm on the second spacecraft. 3. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the attachment device includes berthing pins affixed to the first spacecraft. 4. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, further comprising the steps of launching the second spacecraft into space and establishing a communications link between the second spacecraft and a remote operator. 5. A method capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 4, wherein the remote operator can manually override the autonomous identification of the first spacecraft 6. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 4, wherein the remote operator can manually override the autonomous pursuit of the first spacecraft. 7. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 4, wherein the step of securing the first spacecraft to the second spacecraft is accomplished autonomously. 8. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 7, wherein the autonomous securing of the first spacecraft to the second spacecraft can be manually overridden by the remote operator. 9. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the step of autonomously identifying the first spacecraft is accomplished using Artificial Intelligence logic. 10. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, further comprising the steps of launching the second spacecraft into space and establishing a communications link between the second spacecraft and a remote operator. 11. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein a remote operator can manually override the autonomous identification of the first spacecraft. 12. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 1, wherein the step of autonomously identifying the first spacecraft is accomplished using Artificial Intelligence logic. 13. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, comprising the steps of: a) autonomously identifying the first spacecraft, b) autonomously pursuing the first spacecraft with the second spacecraft, and c) securing the first spacecraft to the second spacecraft using an attachment device, wherein the first spacecraft is autonomously pursued by the second spacecraft by comparing file images of the first spacecraft with real time images of the first spacecraft collected by the second spacecraft. 14. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 13, wherein the second spacecraft has already captured another free-flying spacecraft. 15. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 13, wherein the step of autonomously pursuing the first spacecraft is accomplished using Artificial Intelligence logic. 16. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 13, further comprising the steps of launching the second spacecraft into space and establishing a communications link between the second spacecraft and a remote operator. 17. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 13, wherein a remote operator can manually override the autonomous pursuit of the first spacecraft. 18. A method of capturing a first free-flying spacecraft with a second free-flying spacecraft, according to the limitations of claim 13, wherein the step of autonomously pursuing the first spacecraft is accomplished using Artificial Intelligence logic. 