Apparatus, systems, and methods for inspecting a structure are provided which use a sensor holder constructed from rapid prototyping, such as stereolithography, and which is configured to support one or more linear inspection sensors. Rapid prototype integrated linear ultrasonic transducer inspection apparatus, systems, and methods provide fast and efficient methods of constructing custom inspection devices.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. A non-destructive inspection apparatus for inspecting a structure, comprising: a sensor holder defining at least one recess for supporting and orienting at least one linear inspection sensor configured to inspect over a continuous first length in a first dimension without movement of the linear inspection sensor in the first dimension, wherein the first length substantially corresponds to the length of the linear inspection sensor, wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least a first portion of the structure, wherein the first portion of the structure comprises at least one curved structural feature. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor holder is configured for inspecting and traveling over at least a portion of a hat stringer. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor holder further defines a handle for manual inspection of a structure. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the recess is configured with an adjustable alignment screw capable of securing a linear inspection sensor along the length of the recess by pressing the linear inspection sensor against the opposite end of the recess from the alignment screw. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the sensor holder is further configured with an adjustable corner portion capable of being relocated to correspond with the position of the alignment screw such that the adjustable corner portion defines a position of a concave corner of the sensor holder corresponding to the position where one end of a linear inspection sensor is secured by the alignment screw against the opposite end of the recess from the alignment screw. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the sensor holder is further configured such that the alignment screw is capable of both adjusting the position of the adjustable corner portion and securing a linear inspection sensor along the length of the recess by pressing the corner portion against the linear inspection sensor. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the recess is configured with at least one removable and adjustable enclosure capable of securing a linear inspection sensor disposed in the recess by holding the linear inspection sensor into the recess. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor holder is further configured to define a first recess for supporting and orienting a first linear inspection sensor at a first angle to the structure to permit a linear inspection sensor supported by the first recess to inspect a first portion of the structure and a second recess for supporting and orienting a second linear inspection sensor at a second angle to the structure to permit a linear inspection sensor supported by the second recess to inspect a second portion of the structure while the sensor holder travels over the first and second portions of the structure. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one linear inspection sensor disposed in, supported by, and oriented by a recess defined by the sensor holder. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a fluid manifold and a fluid inlet port connected to the fluid manifold, wherein the fluid inlet port is configured for injecting a fluid into the fluid manifold, and wherein the sensor holder is further configured for permitting the dispersion of fluid from the fluid manifold between the at least one recess and the structure. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the sensor holder is further configured to define the fluid manifold. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising at least one linear inspection sensor disposed in a recess defined by the sensor holder and wherein the fluid manifold is configured for permitting the dispersion of fluid from the fluid manifold between the linear inspection sensor and the structure. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an encoder configured for measuring at least one of the following characteristics of the inspection apparatus with respect to the structure under inspection: position, speed, direction, and velocity. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a motion device capable of moving the sensor holder over at least the first portion of the structure, wherein the motion device is configured for moving the sensor holder over the structure along an axis perpendicular to the end-to-end orientation of the at least one linear inspection sensor supported in the at least one recess such that any linear inspection sensors carried by the sensor holder move sideways over the structure for inspection of the at least first portion of the structure. 15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the motion device comprises a motor with an attached wheel. 16. A system for inspecting a structure comprising: a sensor holder configured for traveling over at least a first portion of the structure under inspection, wherein the sensor holder defines at least one recess for supporting and orienting at least one linear inspection sensor disposed in the at least one recess, the linear inspection sensor configured to inspect over a continuous first length in a first dimension without movement of the linear inspection sensor in the first dimension, wherein the first length substantially corresponds to the length of the linear inspection sensor, and wherein the sensor holder is configured for traveling over at least the first portion of the structure under inspection, wherein the first portion of the structure comprises at least one curved structural feature; and at least one linear inspection sensor disposed in the at least one recess and carried by the sensor holder for inspecting the structure as the sensor holder is moved over the structure. 17. The system of claim 16, further comprises a fluid manifold and a fluid inlet port connected to the fluid manifold, wherein the fluid inlet port is configured for injecting a fluid into the fluid manifold, wherein the sensor holder is further configured for permitting the disbursement of fluid from the fluid manifold to an area between at least one linear inspection sensor and a portion of the structure, and wherein the sensor holder defines the fluid manifold. 18. The system of claim 16, further comprising a motor carried by the sensor holder and configured to move the sensor holder over at least the first portion of the structure. 19. The system of claim 18, wherein the sensor holder is configured for inspecting hat stringers. 20. The system of claim 16, further comprising an encoder carried by the sensor holder and configured for measuring at least one of the following characteristics of the sensor holder with respect to the structure under inspection: position, speed, direction, and velocity. 21. The system of claim 16, wherein the sensor holder is further configured to define a handle for manual inspection of a structure. 