A valve stem installation system (10) includes a conveyor (24) for moving wheel rims (14). A detector (50) is cooperable with the conveyor (24) to detect size of the wheel rim (14) and a location of an aperture (12) of the wheel rim (14) to receive various valve stems (16, 18). Two robots (110, 112) are adaptable for matably moving the valve stem (16, 18) to the wheel rim (14). A controller (60) is operably communicated with the robots (110, 112) and the detector (50) for receiving a signal from the detector (50) as the detector (50) identifies configuration of the wheel rim (14) and then transmitting the signal to the robots (110, 112) thereby directing the robots (110, 112) to selectively engage the valve stem (16, 18) to be inserted into the aperture (12). An insertion tool (114) is connected to each robot (110, 112) to selectively engage the valve stem (16, 18) to interchangeably move and insert the valve stem (16, 18) into the aperture (12) in response to the signal received by the robot (110, 112) from the controller (60).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for selectively mating one of a valve stem and a pressure monitoring device (TPM) and assembling one of the valve stem and the TPM with a wheel rim having an aperture formed therein for receiving one of the valve stem and the TPM, said system comprising: a detector for identifying a configuration of the wheel rim; a robotic device adaptable for moving one of the valve stem and the TPM to the wheel rim for mating one of the valve stem and the TPM to the wheel rim; a controller operably communicated with said robotic device and said detector for receiving a signal from said detector and transmitting said signal to said robotic device thereby directing said robotic device to selectively engage one of the valve stem and the TPM; and an insertion tool of said robotic device for selectively engaging one of the valve stem with a first inserting device and clamping the TPM with a second inserting device having a pair of fingers for inserting one of the valve stem and the TPM into the aperture in response to said signal received by said robotic device from said controller. 2. A system as set forth in claim 1 wherein said robotic device is further defined by a pair of robots adjacent one and the other with each of said robots including a robot arm connected to a shoulder and multi-axially movable relative to one another and relative to the wheel rim. 3. A system as set forth in claim 2 wherein said insertion tool is operably connected to said robot arm. 4. A system as set forth in claim 3 wherein said first inserting device is further defined by a pin and a vacuum device fluidly communicated with said pin for engaging the valve stem with said pin, said vacuum device applying vacuum to said pin thereby preventing said pin from disengaging from the valve stem. 5. A system as set forth in claim 4 wherein said first inserting device includes at least one vacuum sensor communicating with said controller for controlling frictional engagement between said pin and the valve stem. 6. A system as set forth in claim 5 wherein said pair of fingers are pivotably movable towards one another for engaging the TPM at a first angle. 7. A system as set forth in claim 6 wherein said second inserting device includes a pinching link cooperable with said fingers and slidably movable in a direction different than pivotable direction of said fingers for supporting the TPM at a second angle thereby pinching the TPM into the aperture. 8. A system as set forth in claim 7 wherein said second inserting device includes an actuator to facilitate pivotable motion of said fingers and slidable motion of said pinching link relative to one another for engaging and disengaging the TPM. 9. A system as set forth in claim 8 wherein said second inserting device includes a nut runner associated with and slidably movable relative to said second inserting device for assembling a nut with the TPM. 10. A system as set forth in claim 1 including a conveyance device for moving the wheel rims relative to said robotic device. 11. A system as set forth in claim 10 wherein said conveyance device is further defined by a plurality of modules aligned with respect to one another along said conveyance device. 12. A system as set forth in claim 11 wherein each of said modules includes a stopping device for preventing the wheel rim from moving along said conveyance device, said stopping device having at least one pin movable between an extended position and a retracted position for preventing the wheel rim from moving along said conveyance device. 13. A system for selectively engaging a valve stem and a pressure monitoring device (TPM) and assembling one of the valve stem and the TPM with a wheel rim having an aperture formed therein for receiving one of the valve stem and the TPM, said system comprising: a detector for identifying the wheel rim and locating a radial zone; a robotic device adaptable for detecting a location of the aperture in the wheel rim and matably moving one of the valve stem and the TPM to the wheel rim; a controller operably communicated with said robotic device and said detector for receiving a signal from said detector as said detector identifies configuration of the wheel rim and transmitting said signal to said robotic device thereby directing said robotic device to selectively engage one of the valve stem and the TPM; an insertion tool of said robotic device adaptable for selectively engaging one of the valve stem by a first inserting device and clamping the TPM with a second inserting device having a pair of fingers in response to said signal received by said robotic device from said controller; and a locating device connected to said insertion tool for identifying a precise location of the aperture relative to the radial zone for signaling said insertion tool the precise location of the aperture enabling said insertion tool to interchangeably move and insert one of the valve stem and the TPM into the aperture. 14. A system as set forth in claim 13 wherein said locating device includes light emitters and light receivers corresponding to said light emitters for identifying the location of the aperture relative to the radial zone defined by the wheel rim. 15. A system as set forth in claim 14 wherein said robotic device is further defined by a pair of robots adjacent one and the other with each of said robots including a robot arm connected to a shoulder multi-axially movable relative to one another and relative to the wheel rim. 16. A system as set forth in claim 15 including a nut runner associated with and slidably movable relative to said second insertion device for assembling a nut with the TPM thereby securing the TMP with the wheel rim. 17. A system as set forth in claim 16 wherein said first inserting device is further defined by a pin and a vacuum device fluidly communicated with said pin for engaging the valve stem with said pin with said vacuum device applying vacuum to said pin thereby preventing said pin from disengaging from the valve stem. 18. A system as set forth in claim 17 wherein said pair of fingers are pivotably movable towards one another for engaging the TPM at a first angle and a pinching link cooperable with said fingers and slidably movable in a direction different than pivotable direction of said fingers for supporting the TPM at a second angle thereby pinching the TPM into the aperture. 19. A system as set forth in claim 13 including a conveyance device for moving the wheel rims relative to said robotic device with said conveyance device including a plurality of modules aligned with respect to one another along said conveyance device, each of said modules including rollers for supporting and moving the wheel rims along said conveyance device. 20. A method of selectively mating one of a valve stem and a pressure monitoring device (TPM) and assembling one of the valve stem and the TPM with a wheel rim having an aperture formed therein, said method comprising the steps of: identifying type of the wheel rim; identifying a location of the aperture defined by the wheel rim; rotating a robotic device relative to the wheel rim and a matably moving one of the valve stem and the TPM to the wheel rim; associating a controller with the robotic device to receive a signal as the size of the wheel rim is identified and transmitting the signal to the robotic device to direct the robotic device to selectively engage one of the valve stem and the TPM; selectively engaging one of the valve stem by a first inserting device and the TPM by clamping the TMP by a second inserting device having a pair of fingers as directed by the controller; and interchangeably moving and inserting one of the valve stem and the TPM into the aperture in response to the signal received by the robotic device from the controller. 21. A method as set forth in claim 20 wherein the step of rotating of the robotic device is further defined by positioning a pair of robots adjacent one and the other with each of the robots including a shoulder and a robot arm multi-axially movable relative to one another and relative to the wheel rim. 22. A method as set forth in claim 21 further including a step of interconnecting the first inserting device with the second inserting device defined by connecting a pin and a vacuum device fluidly communicated with the first inserting device to engage the valve stem with the pin and applying vacuum through the vacuum device to prevent the pin from disengaging from the valve stem. 23. A method as set forth in claim 22 wherein the step of interconnecting the first inserting device with the second inserting device is further defined by pivotably engaging the pair of fingers to a base portion of the second insertion device to engage the TPM at one angle. 24. A method as set forth in claim 23 including the step of connecting a pinching link to the base portion to move the pinching link in a direction different than direction of pivotable movement of the fingers to support the TPM at another angle and to pinch the TPM into the aperture. 25. A method as set forth in claim 24 including the step of connecting a nut runner to the second inserting device to assemble a nut with the TPM. 26. A system for selectively mating one of a valve stem and a pressure monitoring device (TPM) and assembling one of the valve stem and the TPM with a wheel rim having an aperture formed therein for receiving one of the valve stem and the TPM, said system comprising: a robotic manipulator for selectively mating one of the valve stem and the TPM to the wheel rim; an insertion tool operably connected to said robotic manipulator and having a first opposing member and a second opposing member with said first opposing member being adaptable for receiving and securing the valve stem and said second opposing member having a pair of fingers for clamping the TPM; a nut runner associated with and slidably movable relative to said second opposing member for assembling a nut with the TPM; and said robotic manipulator being programmable to selectively and interchangeably moving mating one of the valve stem and the TPM with the wheel rim. 27. A system as set forth in claim 26 wherein said robotic manipulator includes a robot arm connected to a shoulder multi-axially movable relative to one another and relative to the wheel rim. 28. A system as set forth in claim 27 wherein said first opposing member is further defined by a pin and a vacuum device fluidly communicated with said pin for engaging the valve stem with said pin. 29. A system as set forth in claim 28 wherein said pair of fingers of said second opposing member are pivotably movable towards one another for engaging the TPM at a first angle. 30. A system as set forth in claim 29 wherein said second opposing member includes a pinching link slidably movable in a direction different than said pair of fingers for supporting the TPM at a second angle and pinching the TPM into the aperture. 31. A system as set forth in claim 30 including a conveyance device for moving the wheel rims relative to said robotic manipulator and a plurality of modules aligned with respect to one another along said conveyance device. 