The present invention relates to systems, methods and kits for low-level detection of nucleic acids, detecting at least two different viral sequences in a single reaction vessel, and increasing the dynamic range of detection of a viral target nucleic acid in a sample. The present invention also relates to T-structure invasive cleavage assays, as well as T-structure related target dependent non-target amplification methods and compositions. The present invention further relates to methods, compositions, devices and systems for consistent nucleic acid dispensing onto surfaces.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of target nucleic acid dependent amplification of a non-target sequence in a sample comprising; a) incubating a sample with stem oligonucleotides, upstream oligonucleotides, primers, dNTPs, and a polymerase under conditions such that, if a target nucleic acid is present: i) a 3' target specific region of said stem oligonucleotides hybridizes to said target nucleic acid, and a stem region of said stem oligonucleotides remains available for hybridization to said upstream oligonucleotides, ii) a 5' target specific region of said upstream oligonucleotides hybridizes to said target nucleic acid, and a stem specific region of said upstream oligonucleotides hybridizes to a portion of said stem region of said stem oligonucleotides, and iii) said polymerase extends a 3' end of said upstream oligonucleotides using said stem region of said stem oligonucleotides as a template to generate extended upstream oligonucleotides that comprise an upstream oligonucleotide extended region; b) heating said sample to separate said extended upstream oligonucleotides from said stem oligonucleotides and said target nucleic acid; c) cooling said sample under conditions such that said primers hybridize to at least a portion of said upstream oligonucleotide extended region of said extended upstream oligonucleotides; and d) incubating said sample under conditions such that said primers are extended by said polymerase using said extended upstream oligonucleotides as templates such that stem amplicon sequences are generated. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of detecting the presence or absence of said target nucleic acid in said sample by determining if stem amplicon sequences are generated. 3. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of performing one or more rounds of PCR using said stem amplicon sequences and said extended upstream oligonucleotides as templates, wherein said upstream oligonucleotides prime polymerization from said stem amplicon sequences, and wherein said primers prime polymerization from said extended upstream oligonucleotides. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising a step of detecting the presence or absence of said target nucleic acid in said sample by detecting an accumulated PCR product. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising incubating said sample with downstream probes and upstream oligonucleotides such that invasive cleavage structures are formed with said stem amplicon sequences, the downstream probes, and the upstream oligonucleotides. 6. A method comprising: 1) incubating a sample with stem oligonucleotides, upstream oligonucleotides, primers, dNTPs, and a polymerase under conditions such that, if a target nucleic acid is present: A) a 3' target specific region of said stem oligonucleotides hybridizes to said target nucleic acid, and a stem region of said stem oligonucleotides remains available for hybridization to said upstream oligonucleotides, B) a 5' target specific region of said upstream oligonucleotides hybridizes to said target nucleic acid, and a stem specific region of said upstream oligonucleotides hybridizes to a portion of said stem region of said stem oligonucleotides, and C) said polymerase extends a 3' end of said upstream oligonucleotides using said stem region of said stem oligonucleotides as a template to generate extended upstream oligonucleotides that comprise an upstream oligonucleotide extended region; 2) heating said sample to separate said extended upstream oligonucleotides from said stem oligonucleotides and said target nucleic acid; and 3) cooling said sample under conditions such that said primers hybridize to at least a portion of said upstream oligonucleotide extended region of said extended upstream oligonucleotides. 7. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of incubating said sample under conditions such that said primers are extended by said polymerase using said extended upstream oligonucleotides as templates such that stem amplicon sequences are generated. 8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of detecting the presence or absence of said target nucleic acid in said sample by determining if stem amplicon sequences are generated. 9. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of performing one or more rounds of PCR using said stem amplicon sequences and said extended upstream oligonucleotides as templates, wherein said upstream oligonucleotides prime polymerization from said stem amplicon sequences, and wherein said primers prime polymerization from said extended upstream oligonucleotides. 10. The method of claim 9, further comprising a step of detecting the presence or absence of said target nucleic acid in said sample by detecting any accumulated PCR product. 11. The method of claim 7, further comprising incubating said sample with downstream probes and upstream oligonucleotides such that invasive cleavage structures are formed with said stem amplicon sequences, the downstream probes, and the upstream oligonucleotides. 