A needle assembly has a first body and a guide rod supported for sliding movement between an extended position and a retracted position. A second body is attached to the guide rod. The second body is relatively farther from the first body when the guide rod is in the extended position and relatively closer to the first body when the guide rod is in the retracted position. The guide rod is biased to the extended position. The second body supports a venting needle that extends beyond the second body by a fixed length. A liquid handling needle is coupled to the first body. Sliding movement of the guide rod toward the retracted position retracts the second body and the venting needle relative to the liquid handling needle.
Claims We claim: 1. A needle assembly for maintaining a substantially constant pressure within a sealed receptacle when aspirating a liquid out of or dispensing liquid into said sealed receptacle, the assembly comprising: a first body; at least one guide rod supported by the first body for sliding movement between an extended position and a retracted position; a second body attached to said at least one guide rod such that said second body moves in conjunction with said at least one guide rod, the second body being relatively farther from the first body when the guide rod is in the extended position and relatively closer to the first body when the guide rod is in the retracted position; a biasing member biasing the guide rod to the extended position; a venting needle supported by said second body, said venting needle extending a fixed distance beyond said second body in a direction generally opposite the first body; and a liquid handling needle coupled to said first body so sliding movement of the guide rod toward the retracted position retracts the second body and the venting needle relative to the liquid handling needle. 2. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein the venting needle extends through the second body. 3. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein said biasing member comprises a spring. 4. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein said first body comprises a mechanism for aspirating liquid through said liquid handling needle. 5. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein said first body comprises a mechanism for dispensing liquid through said liquid handling needle. 6. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein the venting needle is supported in a position spaced from the first body when the guide rod is in the extended position. 7. The assembly according to claim 6, wherein the liquid handling needle extends into the first body and is connected to a mechanism operable to transfer a liquid through the liquid handling needle. 8. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein the at least one guide rod comprises a first guide rod and a second guide rod, the first and second guide rods are each supported by the first body for sliding in parallel relative to the first body, and the second body is attached to each of the first and second guide rods so the second body moves with the first and second guide rods. 9. The assembly according to claim 1, wherein the liquid handling needle extends a fixed distance from the first body. 