A rotating power connector for an electric welding torch unicable includes a generally cylindrical outer housing having a longitudinal axis. A connector pin is fixedly, axially disposed within the outer housing and extends from one end thereof. A rotating stud is rotatably, axially disposed within the outer housing and extends from another end thereof. The connector pin and the rotating stud have ends in contact within the outer housing. A secondary electrical contact ring also is disposed within the outer housing. The secondary electrical contact ring includes at least one contact portion contacting the rotating stud. At least one biasing member is disposed between the rotating stud and the contact ring. The biasing member urges the rotating stud into engagement with the connector pin and urges the contact ring into engagement with the rotating stud.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A rotating power connector for an electric welding torch unicable, said rotating power connector comprising: a generally cylindrical outer housing having a longitudinal axis; a connector pin fixedly, axially disposed within said outer housing and extending from one end thereof; a rotating stud rotatably, axially disposed within said outer housing and extending from another end thereof; said connector pin and said rotating stud having ends in contact within said outer housing; a secondary electrical contact ring disposed within said outer housing, said secondary electrical contact ring including at least one contact portion contacting said rotating stud; and at least one biasing member disposed between said rotating stud and said contact ring urging said rotating stud into engagement with said connector pin and urging said contact ring into engagement with said rotating stud. 2. The rotating power connector of claim 1, wherein said rotating stud and said connector pin are in electrical contact such that electric current flows therethrough. 3. The rotating power connector of claim 1, wherein said connector pin and rotating stud are tubular for communicating shielding gas therethrough. 4. The rotating power connector of claim 1, wherein said connector pin is insertable into a welding torch to connect the rotating power connector to the welding torch. 5. The rotating power connector of claim 1, wherein said rotating stud is connectable to an electric welding torch unicable. 6. The rotating power connector of claim 1, wherein said at least one biasing member is a wave spring. 7. The rotating power connector of claim 1, including a slip ring on said rotating stud, wherein one biasing member is disposed between said slip ring and a portion of said rotating stud and urges said rotating stud into engagement with said connector pin, and another biasing member is disposed between said slip ring and said contact ring urges said contact ring into engagement with said rotating stud. 8. The rotating power connector of claim 1, wherein said contact ring includes eight contact portions contacting said rotating stud. 9. The rotating power connector of claim 1, including a bearing around said rotating stud, said bearing facilitating rotation of said rotating stud relative to said connector pin. 10. The rotating power connector of claim 1, including an inner housing disposed inside of said outer housing and generally over said outer housing and said rotating stud and connector pin. 11. The rotating power connector of claim 10, wherein said inner housing includes a tapered surface in contact with said at least one contact portion of said contact ring, said tapered surface urging said at least one contact portion into engagement with said rotating stud. 12. The rotating power connector of claim 10, wherein said inner housing contacts said connector pin and said at least one contact portion of said contact ring to allow for the flow of electric current from said rotating stud through said contact ring and said inner housing into said connector pin. 13. An assembly for rotational movement of an electric welding torch unicable, said assembly comprising: a connector that rotatably connects a welding torch unicable to a welding torch such that the unicable is rotatable relative to the welding torch; said connector including: a generally cylindrical outer housing having a longitudinal axis; a connector pin fixedly, axially disposed within said outer housing and extending from one end thereof; a rotating stud rotatably, axially disposed within said outer housing and extending from another end thereof; said connector pin and said rotating stud having ends in contact within said outer housing; a secondary electrical contact ring disposed within said outer housing, said secondary electrical contact ring including at least one contact portion contacting said rotating stud; and at least one biasing member disposed between said rotating stud and said contact ring urging said rotating stud into engagement with said connector pin and urging said contact ring into engagement with said rotating stud; wherein the unicable, connector, and welding torch are in fluid communication, are electrically connected, and cooperate to define a passageway for a welding material. 14. The assembly of claim 13, wherein said connector communicates electrical current from said unicable to said welding torch. 15. The assembly of claim 13, wherein said connector communicates shielding gas from said unicable to said welding torch. 16. The assembly of claim 13, wherein said rotating stud of said connector is connectable to said unicable. 