An automated staining system and a reagent container designed for use with the automated staining apparatus. The reagent container includes a reagent containment section capable of containing a volume of a reagent. The reagent containment section includes an upper wall and a base wall that are spaced apart along an axis. The base wall includes a well having a nadir that is aligned axially with an access opening in the upper wall so that a reagent probe entering the opening parallel to the axis will travel toward the nadir. In another aspect of the invention, the reagent container may include a two-dimensional data element containing reagent information. The staining apparatus may include one removable drawer for holding reagent containers and another removable drawer holding slides.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A reagent container capable of use in an autostainer having a probe, the container comprising: an upper wall, a base wall, and a tubular side wall interconnecting the base and upper walls, said upper wall spaced apart from said base wall along an imaginary line passing through the base and upper wall, said base wall having a plurality of distinct inwardly and downwardly converging wall sections extending from said tubular side wall that define a concave well with a nadir at a convergence of said wall sections and said upper wall having an access opening, said nadir and access opening being aligned with each other along said imaginary line so that the probe entering said opening in a direction substantially parallel to said imaginary line is directed toward said nadir. 2. The reagent container of claim 1 wherein said upper wall includes a neck having a passageway extending substantially parallel to said imaginary line, said access opening being formed in said neck and being substantially coextensive with the cross-sectional area of said passageway. 3. The reagent container of claim 2 further comprising a removable closure capable of engaging said neck and thereby sealing said access opening. 4. The reagent container of claim 1 further comprising a two-dimensional data storage element containing reagent data that is readable by the autostainer. 5. The reagent container of claim 4 wherein said two-dimensional data storage element includes a two-dimensional array of optically readable marks. 6. The reagent container of claim 4 wherein said data storage element is a two-dimensional bar code. 7. The reagent container of claim 1 wherein said base wall includes a spaced-apart pair of outwardly-projecting protrusions, said protrusions each providing a contact point when the reagent container is placed on a planar surface. 8. An automated staining apparatus for staining specimens carried on a plurality of slides, comprising: a tray for holding the plurality of slides each carrying a tissue specimen; a rack having a plurality of apertures; a plurality of reagent containers received in said plurality of apertures, each of said reagent containers containing a reagent and including an upper wall, a base wall, and a tubular side wall interconnecting the base and upper wall, said upper wall spaced apart from said base wall along an imaginary line passing through the base and upper wall, said base wall having a plurality of distinct inwardly and downwardly converging wall sections extending from said tubular side wall that define a concave well with a nadir at a convergence of said wall sections and said upper wall having an access opening, said nadir and access opening being aligned with each other along said imaginary line; and a staining head assembly having a selectively and controllably movable probe capable of being positioned proximate selected ones of said reagent containers and entering said access openings in a direction substantially parallel to said imaginary line and directed toward said nadir, said probe operable for withdrawing a reagent volume from said reagent containers and depositing the reagent volume on the slides according to a staining protocol. 9. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said upper wall includes a neck having a passageway extending parallel to said line, said access opening being provided in said neck and coextensive with said passageway. 10. The apparatus of claim 9 further comprising a removable closure capable of engaging said neck and thereby sealing said access opening. 11. The apparatus of claim 8 further comprising: a data reader mounted for movement with said staining head assembly; and a plurality of two-dimensional data storage elements each associated with one of said reagent container, said data storage element containing reagent data that is readable by said data reader when said probe is located at the reagent container containing the data storage element. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said two-dimensional data storage element includes an array of optically readable marks, and wherein said data reader is an optical reader. 13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said data storage element is a two-dimensional bar code and said data reader is a bar code reader. 14. The apparatus of claim 8 wherein said base wall includes a spaced-apart pair of outwardly-projecting protrusions, said protrusions each providing a contact point when the reagent container is placed on a planar surface. 