A manipulator comprises an operation command unit provided with an attitude adjusting unit and an end effector control unit, a connecting unit having one end connected to the operation command unit, a working unit connected to the other end of the connecting unit and provided with an end effector and a support unit supporting the end effector for motions, and a control unit that transmits an operation command provided by the attitude adjusting unit to the support unit to adjust the attitude of the end effector and transmits an operation command provided by the end effector control unit to the end effector to operate the end effector. The support unit includes a first joint capable of turning about a first axis perpendicular to the center axis of the connecting unit, and a second joint capable of turning about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis. The end effector can be turned for rolling about an axis substantially parallel to the second axis of the second joint. The attitude adjusting unit has a third joint having a third axis perpendicular to the center line of the connecting unit. The end effector control unit is formed such that the fingers of an operator gripping operating members included in the end effector control unit extend substantially in parallel to the fourth axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for suturing with a manipulator: griping a curved suture needle; sticking the curved suture needle into a part to be sutured; and turning a support unit, wherein the manipulator includes, an operation command unit including an attitude adjusting unit and an end effector control unit, a connecting unit having one end connected to the operation command unit, and a working unit connected to the other end of the connecting unit and provided with an end effector and the support unit supporting the end effector for motion, wherein the support unit includes a first joint configured to turn about a first axis perpendicular to a center axis of the connecting unit, and a second joint configured to turn about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis, and the end effector includes a center axis substantially parallel to the second axis. 2. The method for suturing according to claim 1, wherein the support unit supports the end effector for motions in at least two degrees of freedom of motion. 3. The method for suturing according to claim 1, wherein the turning the support unit includes turning the second joint. 4. The method for suturing according to claim 3, wherein the attitude adjusting unit includes a sensor for transmitting an operation command to turn the second joint. 5. The method for suturing according to claim 1, wherein the manipulator includes a control unit configured to transmit an operation command provided by the attitude adjusting unit to the support unit to adjust the attitude of the end effector and configured to transmit an operation command provided by the end effector control unit to the end effector to operate the end effector. 6. A method for suturing with a manipulator: griping a curved suture needle; sticking the curved suture needle into a part to be sutured; and turning a support unit, wherein the manipulator includes, an operation command unit provided with an attitude adjusting unit and an end effector control unit; a connecting unit having one end connected to the operation command unit; a working unit connected to the other end of the connecting unit and provided with an end effector and the support unit supporting the end effector for motions in at least two degrees of freedom of motion; and a control unit that transmits an operation command provided by the attitude adjusting unit to the support unit to adjust the attitude of the end effector and transmits an operation command provided by the end effector control unit to the end effector to operate the end effector; wherein the support unit includes a first joint capable of turning about a first axis perpendicular to a center axis of the connecting unit, and a second joint capable of turning about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis; and the end effector control unit has a handle part to be gripped by fingers and a longitudinal direction is substantially in parallel to the first axis. 7. A method for suturing with a manipulator including: an operation command unit including an attitude adjusting unit and an end effector control unit, a connecting unit having one end connected to the operation command unit, and a working unit provided with an end effector having griping members capable of being moved for gripping/releasing actions and the support unit supporting the end effector for motion, the support unit being connected to the other end of the connecting unit, the method comprising: griping a curved suture needle; sticking the curved suture needle into a part to be sutured; and turning a support unit. wherein the support unit includes a first joint configured to turn about a first axis perpendicular to a center axis of the connecting unit, and a second joint configured to turn about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis, and the end effector includes a center axis substantially parallel to the second axis. 8. The method for suturing according to claim 7 wherein the support unit supports the end effector for motions in at least two degrees of freedom of motion. 9. The method for suturing according to claim 7, wherein the turning the support unit includes turning the second joint. 10. The method for suturing according to claim 9, wherein the attitude adjusting unit includes a sensor for transmitting an operation command to turn the second joint. 11. The method for suturing according to claim 7, wherein the manipulator includes a control unit configured to transmit an operation command provided by the attitude adjusting unit to the support unit to adjust the attitude of the end effector and configured to transmit an operation command provided by the end effector control unit to the end effector to operate the end effector. 12. A method for suturing with a manipulator including: an operation command unit provided with an attitude adjusting unit and an end effector control unit; a connecting unit having one end connected to the operation command unit; a working unit connected to the other end of the connecting unit and provided with an end effector having griping members capable of being moved for gripping/releasing actions and the support unit supporting the end effector for motions in at least two degrees of freedom of motion; and a control unit that transmits an operation command provided by the attitude adjusting unit to the support unit to adjust the attitude of the end effector and transmits an operation command provided by the end effector control unit to the end effector to operate the end effector; wherein the support unit includes a first joint capable of turning about a first axis perpendicular to a center axis of the connecting unit, and a second joint capable of turning about a second axis perpendicular to the first axis; and the end effector control unit has a handle part to be gripped by fingers and a longitudinal direction is substantially in parallel to the first axis, the method comprising: griping a curved suture needle; sticking the curved suture needle into a part to be sutured; and turning a support unit. 