An adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus includes a gun manifold, a dispensing module, and a dispensing orifice. The inlet port of the gun manifold is directly coupled with a reservoir of adhesive hot melt liquid that is fixedly attached to the manifold. The contents of the reservoir are under pressure so that the adhesive hot melt liquid is dispensed from the adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus without the need for heated supply hoses to connect the inlet port of the manifold to a remote source of adhesive hot melt liquid. Preferably, the adhesive liquid dispensing system is coupled with a robot that controls the positioning of the system during an adhesive liquid dispensing operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating an adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus having an adhesive liquid reservoir coupled in fluid communication with a dispenser having a dispensing orifice, the method comprising: supplying liquid from the reservoir to the dispenser while dispensing the adhesive liquid from the dispenser; detecting a reduced adhesive liquid level within the reservoir; upon detecting the reduced adhesive liquid level, automatically moving the reservoir and the dispenser to a docking station; and refilling the reservoir with additional adhesive liquid transferred from the docking station to the reservoir. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: coupling a recharge valve on the reservoir with a connecting port on the docking station; relieving pressure within the reservoir; and opening the recharge valve. 3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: detecting when the reservoir is full of the additional liquid; closing the recharge valve so as stop receiving additional liquid within the reservoir; and pressurizing the reservoir. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting the temperature of the liquid in the reservoir; and maintaining the temperature of the liquid in the reservoir in a predetermined range. 5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: operatively coupling the adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus to a robot; and moving the reservoir and the dispenser between a dispensing location and the docking station by action of the robot. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: controlling movement of the adhesive liquid dispensing apparatus with a control system; and moving the reservoir and the dispenser between the docking station and a dispensing location in response to a signal communicated from the control system to the robot. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: automatically moving the reservoir and the dispenser from the docking station to a dispensing location after refilling the reservoir. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: automatically coupling the reservoir and the dispenser to the docking station. 