The present invention provides a generic synchronized motion control system for multiple dynamic systems. Free choices of synchronization strategies are allowed with no implementation modification. Furthermore, synchronization selections are converted into a numerically searchable parameter space that enables systematic development, automated process, and performance optimization. In addition, the present invention enables a uniform computer program of control synchronization algorithm due to its innovation of separating synchronization strategy from control implementation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A computer implemented method for synchronizing motion for at least two dynamic systems comprising: (a) providing a generic motion control synchronization framework in accordance with a computer program linked to a computer device, the generic synchronization framework defining a parameter matrix and a uniform control framework, the generic synchronization framework being operable to perform adaptive control of a plurality of synchronization parameters related to the motion of the at least two dynamic systems having the same or different control applications; (b) populating the generic synchronization framework with the synchronization parameters; and (c) determining a solution for the parameter matrix adaptively, thereby obtaining a solution for synchronizing motion of the dynamic systems. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the parameter matrix defines a feasible space in which each member of the parameter matrix is a feasible solution. 3. The method of claim 1, comprising the further step of achieving simultaneous convergence by operation of the parameter matrix. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the feasible space is searchable for improved or optimal solution(s) for the parameter matrix. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the synchronization parameters consist of synchronization selections converted into numerical parameters, the numerical parameters including one or numerical values related to the motion of the dynamic systems and/or motion related constraints for the dynamic systems. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the parameter matrix includes a synchronization parameter consisting of a synchronization error value. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the parameter matrix includes synchronization parameters consisting of an inertia value and a centrifugal value. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the parameter matrix includes a synchronization parameter consisting of a Coriolis value. 9. The method of claim 4, comprising the further step of applying one or more numerical optimization methods in order to obtain the improved or optimal solution(s) for the parameter matrix. 10. The method of claim 1, comprising the further step of applying an automated search routine to the parameter matrix to obtain the synchronization solution. 11. The method of claim 1, comprising the further step of applying a numerical computational program to the parameter matrix to obtain the synchronization solution. 12. The method of claim 9, wherein the optimization method is constrained. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the dynamic systems include vehicles. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the dynamic systems include robots. 15. The method of claim 1, comprising the further step of initiating a computer program that is operable to establish and process the generic synchronization framework. 16. The method of claim 1, comprising the further step of obtaining control data from the solution of the parameter matrix. 17. The method of claim 16, comprising the further step of providing the control data to one or more of the dynamic systems to achieve motion synchronization. 18. The method of claim 16, comprising the further step of translating the control data into a format that is operable in connection with one or more motion control systems associated with the dynamic systems. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the one or more motion control systems consist of control applications linked to the dynamic systems. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the motion control systems consists of one or more navigation systems associated with vehicles. 21. A system for synchronizing motion between at least two dynamic systems, the system comprising: (a) a computer device; and (b) a computer program linked to the computer device, computer device and computer program being operable to: i) define a generic motion control synchronization framework, the generic synchronization framework being operable to establish a parameter matrix and a uniform control framework, the generic synchronization framework being operable to perform adaptive control of a plurality of synchronization parameters related to the motion of the at least two dynamic systems having the same or different control applications; ii) populate the generic synchronization framework with the synchronization parameters; and iii) determine a solution for the parameter matrix adaptively, thereby obtaining a solution for synchronizing motion of the dynamic systems. 22. The system as claimed in claim 21, wherein the generic synchronization framework is representative of a dynamic model of the dynamic systems to be synchronized. 23. The system as claimed in claim 21, wherein the generic synchronization framework is further operable to calculate synchronization errors based on desired states of the dynamic systems and actual states of the dynamic systems. 24. A computer program product for use on a computer device for synchronizing motion for at least two dynamic systems, the computer program product comprising: (a) a computer usable medium; and (b) computer readable program code recorded or stored in the computer useable medium, the computer readable program code defining a control application on the computer device that is operable to: i) define a generic motion control synchronization framework, the generic synchronization framework being operable to establish a parameter matrix and a uniform control framework, the generic synchronization framework being operable to perform adaptive control of a plurality of synchronization parameters related to the motion of the at least two dynamic systems having the same or different control applications; ii) populate the generic synchronization framework with the synchronization parameters; and iii) determine a solution for the parameter matrix adaptively, thereby obtaining a solution for synchronizing motion of the dynamic systems. 25. The computer program product of claim 24, wherein the control application is operable to apply one or more numerical optimization methods in order to obtain improved or optimal solution(s) for the parameter matrix. 26. The computer program product of claim 24, the control application being operable to provide control data operable on the dynamic systems to achieve motion synchronization. 27. The computer program product of claim 24, wherein the control application is interoperable with one or more motion control systems associated with the dynamic systems. 28. The computer program product as claimed in claim 27, wherein the motion control systems consist of one or more motion control applications or navigation systems associated with the dynamic systems. 29. The computer program product of claim 26, the computer program product being further operable to translate the control data into a format that is operable in connection with one or more motion control systems associated with the dynamic systems. 30. A computer implemented method for synchronizing motion between at least two dynamic systems, comprising the steps of: (a) developing a dynamic model of the dynamic systems; (b) obtaining estimates for selected synchronization parameters related to the motion of the dynamic systems, by operation of the dynamic model; (c) populating a generic motion control synchronization framework with the synchronization parameters in accordance with a computer program linked to a computer device, the generic synchronization framework defining a parameter matrix and a uniform control framework, the generic synchronization framework being operable to perform adaptive control of the synchronization parameters related to the motion of the at least two dynamic systems having the same or different control applications; (d) calculating selected synchronization errors based on the desired states and the actual states for the dynamic systems; and (e) converting the selected synchronization errors are converted into the parameter matrix and adaptively applying synchronization strategies to the parameter matrix and solving the parameter matrix so as to obtain a solution to the selected synchronization errors. 