Systems, methods, and devices for detecting land mines and unexploded ordnance are disclosed. A first embodiment may be construed as a method that includes: inserting an antenna into the ground; transmitting an electromagnetic signal into the ground via the antenna; receiving a response via the antenna; and processing the response to generate an image which can be examined to determine whether a mine exists within proximity of the antenna.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting subterranean explosive devices, the method comprising: inserting an antenna into the ground; transmitting an electromagnetic signal into the ground via the antenna; receiving a response via the antenna; and processing the received response to generate an image which can be examined to determine whether an explosive device exists within the proximity of the antenna. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of digging a hole in the ground for insertion of the antenna. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of digging further comprises drilling a hole in the ground for insertion of the antenna. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the step of drilling a hole in the ground comprises drilling a hole with a depth of approximately .lamda..sub.min/4, wherein .lamda..sub.min is the minimum wavelength of the transmitted electromagnetic signal for the estimated dielectric constant of the soil. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitted electromagnetic signal is in the frequency range of 250 to approximately 1000 MHz. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of processing the received response comprises: performing a synthetic aperture radar (SAR) technique. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of processing the received response comprises: performing a backprojection technique. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the inserting, transmitting, and receiving is performed at a first location, and further comprising: moving to at least one additional location; and performing the inserting, transmitting, and receiving steps at the at least one additional location. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the second location's distance is about .lamda..sub.min/2 from the first location. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of moving to at least one additional location comprises moving sequentially to a plurality of additional locations in a predetermined pattern; and further comprising repeating the inserting, transmitting, and receiving at each additional location. 11. The method of claim 8, further comprising: enabling a robot to insert the antenna into the ground. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: enabling the robot to move a given distance in a given direction. 13. A system for detecting unexploded ordnance (UXO), including land mines, the system comprising: an antenna to be placed into the ground at a predetermined depth and at predetermined locations in the ground; a transmitter coupled to the antenna for initiating an electromagnetic signal to be propagated through the ground via the antenna; a receiver coupled to the antenna for receiving backscattered radiation as a result of the transmitted electromagnetic signal; a signal processor coupled to the receiver for processing the backscattered radiation; and an imaging device for displaying a visual rendering of the processed information received by the receiver, whereby a UXO can be detected by either automatic detection and identification algorithms or by viewing the visual rendering displayed. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising: a ground plane coupled with the antenna. 15. The system of claim 13, further comprising: a digging instrument for digging a hole for the antenna to be placed in. 16. The system of claim 15, further comprising: a robot comprising: the digging instrument; an aperture for placing the antenna; and means for moving the system a given distance in a given direction. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein the robot further comprises: the signal processor. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the robot further comprises: means for communicating the processed information to the imaging device. 19. A system for detecting unexploded ordnance in the ground comprising: at least one antenna adapted to be placed in the ground; a transmitter coupled to the antenna for transmitting radar signals into the ground via the antenna, the frequency of said radar signals being within a range of 250-1000 MHZ; a receiver coupled to the antenna for receiving radiation as a result of the transmitted radar signals; a signal processor coupled to the receiver for processing the received radiation; and an imaging device coupled to the signal processor for displaying a visual representation of an unexploded ordinance. 