A method and system is provided for detecting, commanding and controlling diverse home devices currently connected to a home network. An interface is provided for accessing the home devices that are currently connected to a home network. According to the method, a device link file is generated, wherein the device link file identifies home devices that are currently connected to the home network. A device link page is created, wherein the device link page contains a device button that is associated with each home device that is identified in the device link file. A hyper-text link is associated with each device button, wherein the hyper-text link provides a link to an HTML page that is contained on the home device that is associated with the device button, and the device link page is displayed on a browser based home device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for a server device to communicate with a client device in a home network, comprising: sending server device characteristic data that identify the server device from the server device to the client device in response to the client device transmitting a first request signal generated by said client device and sent to the server device; receiving a second request signal requesting a web page contained within said server device and associated with a server device control that distinguishes the server device from other server devices, wherein said second request signal is generated in response to said server device characteristic data; sending said web page in response to said second request signal; generating a device link file, wherein the device link file identifies a plurality of server devices, wherein generating the device link file includes: associating a logical device name with each of the plurality of server devices; and storing the plurality of logical device names in the device link file; creating a device link page including device controls associated with the plurality of server devices identified in the device link file, wherein the device link page includes at least one device control for each of the plurality of server devices, wherein creating the device link page further includes: retrieving the plurality of logical device names from the device link file; storing the plurality of logical device names in the device link page; and converting the plurality of logical device names to the device controls; selecting the at least one device control for one of the plurality of server devices; and deactivating, on the device link page, the at least one device control for the plurality of server devices that have no matching capabilities to the one of the plurality of server devices selected. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein: sending the server device characteristic data further includes sending said server device characteristic data to the client device; receiving the second request signal further includes the client device receiving said server device characteristic data and generating said second request signal in response to said server device characteristic data; and sending said web page further includes sending the web page to the client device in response to said second request signal. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the server device comprises a home device and includes at least one controllable function. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: creating a menu for selecting said server device among the plurality of server devices to activate said controllable function; and displaying said menu on a browser based device. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said menu comprises the web page including at least one hypertext link to the web page contained within said server device. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein: creating the menu further includes creating the device link page from the home network, and associating the hypertext link with each of the device controls wherein the hypertext link provides a link to at least one type of graphical and textual information contained in the server device and associated with the device control; and displaying said menu includes displaying said device link page. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein said device link page comprises a first web page or a first html page including at least one hypertext link to a second web page or a second html page contained within said server device. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said device link page comprises a first web page or a first html page including at least one hypertext link to a second web page or a second html page contained within said server device. 9. The method of claim 3, further including detecting whether the server device is currently connected to the home network. 10. The method of claim 3, further including detecting an active status of the server device currently connected to the home network. 11. A home network system comprising: a server device including a processor coupled to a memory device for storing web page files; a client device connected to the server device via a home network; a detector for detecting an active status of devices currently connected to the home network; and a control protocol for the server device to communicate with the client device by: sending sewer device characteristic data that identify the server device from the sewer device to the client device in response to a first request signal generated by said client device and sent to the server device; receiving a second request signal requesting a web page contained within said sewer device and associated with a server device control that distinguishes the server device from other sewer devices, wherein said second request signal is generated in response to said server device characteristic data; sending said web page in response to said second request signal; generating a device link file, wherein the device link file identifies a plurality of server devices, wherein generating the device link file includes: associating a logical device name with each of the plurality of sewer devices; and storing the plurality of logical device names in the device link file; creating a device link page including device controls associated with the plurality of sewer devices identified in the device link file, wherein the device link page includes at least one device control for each of the plurality of sewer devices, wherein creating the device link page further includes: retrieving the plurality of logical device names from the device link file; storing the plurality of logical device names in the device link page; and converting the plurality of logical device names to the device controls; selecting the at least one device control for one of the plurality of server devices and deactivating, on the device link page, the at least one device control for the plurality of server devices that have no matching capabilities to the one of the plurality of server devices selected. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein: the server device sends said server device characteristic data to the client device; the client device receives said server device characteristic data and generates said second request signal in response to said server device characteristic data; and the server device sending the web page to the client device in response to said second request signal. 13. The system of claim 11, wherein the server device comprises a home device and includes at least one controllable function. 14. The system of claim 13, further comprising: a menu generator for creating a menu for selecting said server device among the plurality of server devices to activate said controllable function; and a browser displaying said menu on a browser based device. 15. The system of claim 14, wherein said menu comprises a first web page including at least one hypertext link to a second web page contained within said server device. 16. The system of claim 14, wherein: the menu comprises the device link page such that the menu generator creates the device link page from the home network, the device link page including the at least one device control for each of the plurality of server devices, and the menu generator associates the hypertext link with each of the device controls wherein the hypertext link provides a link to at least one of graphical and textual information contained in the server device and associated with the device controls; and the browser displays said device link page on the browser based device. 17. The system of claim 16, wherein said device link page comprises a first web page or a first html page including at least one hypertext link to a second web page or a second html page contained within each of said plurality of server devices. 18. The system of claim 14, wherein the menu generator is a component of the client device. 19. The system of claim 14, wherein the browser is a component of the client device. 20. The system of claim 14, wherein the client device includes said browser based device. 21. The method of claim 1, wherein upon said server device being powered on a unique IP address for said server device is generated. 