Methods and systems are provided for a vacuum-based semiconductor handling system. The system may be a linear system with a four-link robotic SCARA arm for moving materials in the system. The system may include one or more vertically stacked load locks or vertically stacked process modules.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of handling a wafer in a semiconductor manufacturing system that includes a plurality of vertically stacked loading stations coupled to a shared vacuum environment and a plurality of process modules arranged in a linear system having a loading end and an exit end at opposite ends of the linear system, and at least one vertically stacked mid-entry station between the loading end and the exit end, the plurality of process modules sharing the shared vacuum environment and the plurality of process modules including a plurality of vertically stacked process modules, the method comprising: adding the wafer to the shared vacuum environment at one of the plurality of vertically stacked loading stations at the loading end of the linear system; moving the wafer to a top process module of a first one of the plurality of vertically stacked process modules relatively proximal to the loading end of the linear system; processing the wafer in the top process module; moving the wafer to a bottom process module of a second one of the plurality of vertically stacked process modules relatively proximal to the exit end of the linear system; processing the wafer in the bottom process module; and removing the wafer from the shared vacuum environment at the exit end of the linear system. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein moving the wafer includes moving the wafer with a plurality of robotic arms that pass the wafer among the process modules. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein at least one of the plurality of robotic arms moves in a vertical direction to service at least one of the vertically stacked process modules. 4. The method of claim 1 further comprising moving the wafer to a top or bottom process module of a third one of the plurality of vertically stacked process modules closer to the exit end of the linear system than the second one of the plurality of vertically stacked process modules. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the loading end includes one of the plurality of vertically stacked loading stations. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the loading end includes two or more vertically stacked loading stations. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein adding the wafer to the shared vacuum environment includes adding the wafer from one of the two or more vertically stacked loading stations while loading a second wafer from atmosphere into another one of the two or more vertically stacked loading stations. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising coordinating loading of the plurality of vertically stacked loading stations to minimize a loading wait time. 9. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a single robotic arm capable of accessing any one of the vertically stacked loading stations. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the exit end of the linear system includes a plurality of vertically stacked exit stations. 11. The method of claim 10 further comprising providing a single robotic arm capable of accessing any one of the vertically stacked exit stations. 12. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a single robotic arm capable of accessing more than one of the vertically stacked process modules. 13. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a single robotic arm capable of accessing at least two horizontally adjacent process modules. 14. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing at least one holding station between two horizontally adjacent process modules. 15. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a robotic arm capable of accessing two or more vertically stacked mid-entry stations between the loading end and the exit end. 16. The method of claim 1 further comprising moving the wafer from the exit end toward the loading end for at least one processing step. 17. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing a plurality of robotic arms for moving the wafer among the plurality of vertically stacked process modules. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein the plurality of robotic arms include at least one top robotic arm set and at least one bottom robotic arm set. 19. The system of claim 17 wherein at least one of the plurality of robotic arms can move vertically to access a top one and a bottom one of one of the plurality of vertically stacked process modules. 20. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one of the plurality of vertically stacked process modules includes three or more process modules in a vertical stack. 21. A method of handling a wafer in a semiconductor manufacturing system that includes a plurality of vertically stacked loading stations coupled to a shared vacuum environment and a plurality of process modules arranged in a linear system having a loading end and an exit end at opposite ends of the linear system and at least one vertically stacked mid-entry station between the loading end and the exit end, the plurality of process modules sharing the shared vacuum environment and the plurality of process modules including a plurality of vertically stacked process modules, the method comprising: adding the wafer to the shared vacuum environment at one of the plurality of vertically stacked loading stations at the loading end of the linear system; moving the wafer to a bottom process module of a first one of the plurality of vertically stacked process modules relatively proximal to the loading end of the linear system; processing the wafer in the bottom process module; moving the wafer to a top process module of a second one of the plurality of vertically stacked process modules relatively proximal to the exit end of the linear system; processing the wafer in the top process module; and removing the wafer from the shared vacuum environment at the exit end of the linear system. 22. A method of handling a wafer in a semiconductor manufacturing system that includes a plurality of vertically stacked loading stations coupled to a shared vacuum environment and a plurality of process modules arranged in a linear system having a loading end and an exit end at opposite ends of the linear system, the plurality of process modules sharing the shared vacuum environment and the plurality of process modules including a plurality of vertically stacked process modules, the method comprising: providing a plurality of robotic arms for moving the wafer among the plurality of vertically stacked process modules, the plurality of robotic arms include at least one top robotic arm set and at least one bottom robotic arm set; adding the wafer to the shared vacuum environment at one of the plurality of vertically stacked loading stations at the loading end of the linear system; moving the wafer to a top process module of a first one of the plurality of vertically stacked process modules relatively proximal to the loading end of the linear system; processing the wafer in the top process module; moving the wafer to a bottom process module of a second one of the plurality of vertically stacked process modules relatively proximal to the exit end of the linear system; processing the wafer in the bottom process module; and removing the wafer from the shared vacuum environment at the exit end of the linear system. 