A radiosurgery system configured to deliver a therapeutic dose of radiation to a target structure in a patient is described. In some embodiments, inflammatory ocular disorders are treated, specifically macular degeneration. In some embodiments, the ocular structures are placed in a global coordinate system, and these ocular structures are used to direct an automated positioning system. In some embodiments, the position of ocular structures is tracked and related to the status of the radiosurgery system, and a treatment plan is utilized in which beam energy, direction, and duration of treatment is determined and/or structures to be avoided. In some embodiments, an eye is tracked by the system. The eye can be held in place, and the eye can be fixed by the patient. In some embodiments, a fiducial is placed on the eye to aid in positioning, or a reflection off the eye is used to aid in positioning.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A method, of treating an eye, comprising: engaging an outer surface of an eye with an eye holder to maintain the eye in a substantially fixed position during a treatment period; communicating a signal, indicative of a position of the eye during the treatment period, from a sensor to an x-ray source; after engaging the outer surface of the eye, aligning the x-ray source with the eye by moving the eye with the eye holder; and based on the signal, emitting an x-ray beam from the x-ray source toward the eye to deliver therapeutic radiation to the eye. 2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing an electrical coupling between the eye holder and the x-ray source. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor detects, from the eye holder, information indicative of a position of the eye. 4. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing the x-ray beam through a portion of the eye holder that is transmissive to x-ray radiation. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the signal determines, at least in part, a characteristic of the x-ray beam. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the characteristic comprises at least one of a trajectory of the x-ray beam, a beam on-time, an emit/not-emit status of the x-ray source, and a target on the sclera of the eye. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising creating a vacuum between the eye holder and the outer surface of the eye during the treatment period. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the emitting an x-ray beam comprises emitting an x-ray beam having a trajectory that substantially avoids at least one of the optic nerve and the lens of the eye. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises an imaging apparatus, and the signal is based on data from the imaging apparatus. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the aligning the x-ray source comprises moving the eye to an initial position that is determined based on a location of the visual axis of the eye. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the aligning the x-ray source comprises moving the eye to an initial position that is determined based on a location of the geometric axis of the eye. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the engaging an outer surface of an eye comprises engaging a limbus of the eye with the eye holder. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing the x-ray beam to pass through a pars plana of the eye. 14. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing the x-ray beam to a macula of the eye. 15. The method of claim 1, further comprising directing the x-ray beam to a neovascularization in the eye. 16. The method of claim 1, further comprising collimating the x-ray beam to a width of less than or equal to about 6 mm. 17. The method of claim 1, further comprising administering to the eye at least one of heating, cooling, a VEOF antagonist, a VEGF-receptor antagonist, an antibody directed to VEGF or a VEGF receptor, microwave energy, radiofrequency energy, a laser, a photodynamic agent, a radiodynamic agent, and a therapeutic agent. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the eye holder is coupled to a frame, and the frame applies a force against the eye via the eye holder. 19. A method for treating a structure in an eye, comprising: (a) engaging, with an eye holder, an outer surface of an eye; (b) after the engaging, moving the eye with the eye holder into an initial position relative to a radiation treatment apparatus; (c) holding the eye during a treatment period to maintain the eye in substantially the initial position during the treatment period; and (d) emitting an x-ray beam from an x-ray source toward the structure based on a determination of whether the eye is in substantially the initial position during the treatment period. 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the x-ray beam follows a path defined relative to an axis defined by the eye holder. 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the x-ray beam is less than 6 mm in diameter at the treated structure in the eye. 22. The method of claim 19, wherein the x-ray beam has a penumbra of less than 1 mm at the treated structure in the eye. 23. The method of claim 19, wherein the holding of step (c) includes confirmation of the relative initial position with respect to the radiation treatment apparatus based at least in part on an optical measurement. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the optical measurement is obtained via an imaging apparatus. 25. The method of claim 19, wherein the emitting of x-ray beam of step (d) includes providing a collimated x-ray beam having: (i) an orthovoltage photon energy spectrum selected to minimize beam radiation dose application at tissue-depths beyond the treated structure in the eye; and (ii) a filtered photon energy spectrum configured to provide a ratio, of surface radiation dose to radiation dose at the treated structure in the eye, of less than about 3:1. 26. The method of claim 19, wherein the determination of step (d) includes image feature detection based on optical images including one or both of the treated eye and the eye holder. 27. The method of claim 26, wherein the image feature detection is based on optical image data of at least one of a cornea, an anterior chamber, an iris, a conjunctiva, a pupil, an iridocorneal angle, a trabecular meshwork, a lens capsule, a prosthetic intraocular lens, a ciliary body, a ciliary muscle, a limbus, a pars plana, a scleral spur, a lens, a reflection of light off the eye, and a fundus image. 28. The method of claim 19, wherein the emitting an x-ray beam comprises emitting an x-ray beam having a trajectory that substantially avoids one or both of the optic nerve and lens of the eye. 29. The method of claim 19, further comprising creating a vacuum between the eye holder and the outer surface of the eye during the treatment period. 30. The method of claim 19, wherein the engaging an outer surface of an eye comprises engaging a limbus of the eye with the eye holder. 31. The method of claim 19, wherein the initial position is substantially at a coordinate within a coordinate system, the coordinate system having a plurality of coordinates that each correspond to a different position of the eye holder relative to the radiation treatment apparatus, and further comprising determining, during the treatment period, whether the eye is in substantially the initial position. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the determining is based on data from an imaging apparatus. 33. The method of claim 19, further comprising moving the x-ray source relative to the eye after the eye is moved to the initial position. 34. The method of claim 19, wherein the moving the eye to an initial position is determined based on a location of the geometric axis of the eye. 35. The method of claim 19, further comprising communicating a signal, indicative of a position of the eye during the treatment period, from a sensor to the radiation treatment apparatus, and wherein the sensor comprises an imaging apparatus, and the signal is based on data from the imaging apparatus. 36. The method of claim 35, wherein the imaging apparatus comprises a camera. 37. The method of claim 19, further comprising collimating the x-ray beam to a cross-sectional measurement of less than or equal to about 6 mm. 38. The method of claim 19, further comprising administering to the eye at least one of heating, cooling, a VEGF antagonist, a VEGF-receptor antagonist, an antibody directed to VEGF or a VEGF receptor, microwave energy, radiofrequency energy, a laser, a photodynamic agent, a radiodynamic agent, and a therapeutic agent. 39. The method of claim 19, wherein the eye holder is coupled to a frame, and the frame applies a force against the eye via the eye holder. 