An image capturing device is robotically positioned and oriented in response to operator manipulation of a master control device. An unused degree-of-freedom of the master control device is used to adjust an attribute such as focusing of the image capturing device relative to a continually updated set-point. A deadband is provided to avoid inadvertent adjusting of the image capturing device attribute and haptic feedback is provided back to the master control device so that the operator is notified when adjusting of the attribute is initiated.
Claims We claim: 1. A medical robotic system comprising: an image capturing device manipulatable relative to a first reference frame in a first plurality of degrees-of-freedom; a first master control device manipulatable relative to a second reference frame in a second plurality of degrees-of-freedom; and a controller adapted to: command manipulation of the image capturing device in each of the first plurality of degrees-of-freedom according to input received from the first master control device using less than all of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom; initially determine and periodically update a set-point for an unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device, wherein the periodic updating is performed by sensing a position of the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device, estimating a feedback error resulting from controlling the manipulation of the image capturing device wherein the feedback error effects a change in the set-point of the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device, and determining the updated set-point using the sensed position and the estimated feedback error, and wherein the set-point is a state of the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device and the set-point changes as one or more of the used ones of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device is used to command manipulation of the image capturing device; and adjust an attribute of the image capturing device in response to manipulation of the first master control device in the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device relative to the periodically updated set-point. 2. The medical robotic system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is adapted to adjust the attribute of the image capturing device only if the image capturing device is not being manipulated so as to be moving faster than a threshold velocity. 3. The medical robotic system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is adapted to adjust the attribute of the image capturing device only if the first master control device is not being manipulated so as to be moving faster than a threshold velocity. 4. The medical robotic system according to claim 1, further comprising: a second master control device manipulatable relative to a third reference frame in a third plurality of degrees-of-freedom; wherein the controller is adapted to command manipulation of the image capturing device in each of the first plurality of degrees-of-freedom according to inputs received from the first and second master control devices. 5. The medical robotic system according to claim 4, wherein a pivot point of the first master control device serves as an origin of the first reference frame, a pivot point of the second master control device serves as an origin of the second reference frame, and the controller is adapted to command manipulation of the image capturing device in each of the first plurality of degrees-of-freedom according to manipulation of the first and second master control devices relative to a fourth reference frame having its origin mid-way between the pivot points of the first and second master control devices. 6. The medical robotic system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is adapted to estimate the feedback error using the transpose of a Jacobian of the first master control device. 7. The medical robotic system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is adapted to adjust the attribute of the image capturing device using a difference between a sensed current state of the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device and the periodically updated set-point. 8. The medical robotic system according to claim 7, wherein the controller is adapted to adjust the attribute of the image capturing device only after the absolute value of the difference between the sensed current state and the periodically updated set-point exceeds a threshold value. 9. The medical robotic system according to claim 8, wherein the controller is adapted to command a peak force to be felt on the first master control device so as to be associated with the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom as the absolute value of the difference reaches the threshold value. 10. The medical robotic system according to claim 8, wherein the controller is adapted to adjust the attribute of the image capturing device according to an amount by which the absolute value of the difference exceeds the threshold value. 11. A method for adjusting an attribute of an image capturing device that is robotically manipulatable relative to a first reference frame in a first plurality of degrees-of-freedom, comprising: controlling robotic manipulation of the image capturing device in each of the first plurality of degrees-of-freedom according to at least an input received from a first master control device manipulatable in a second reference frame in a second plurality of degrees-of-freedom, wherein the robotic manipulation of the image capturing device uses less than all of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom; initially determining and periodically updating a set-point for an unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device, wherein the periodic updating is performed by sensing a position of the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device, estimating a feedback error resulting from the controlling of the robotic manipulation of the image capturing device wherein the feedback error effects a change in the set-point of the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device, and determining the updated set-point using the sensed position and estimated feedback error, and wherein the set-point is a state of the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device and the set-point changes as one or more of the used ones of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device is used; and adjusting the attribute of the image capturing device in response to manipulation of the first master control device in the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device relative to the periodically updated set-point. 12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the adjusting of the attribute of the image capturing device is performed only if the image capturing device is not being manipulated so as to be moving faster than a threshold velocity. 13. The method according to claim 11, wherein the adjusting of the attribute of the image capturing device is performed only if the first master control device is not being manipulated so as to be moving faster than a threshold velocity. 14. The method according to claim 11, wherein the controlling of the robotic manipulation of the image capturing device in each of the first plurality of degrees-of-freedom is according to the input received from the first master control device and an input received from a second master control device manipulatable relative to a third reference frame in a third plurality of degrees-of-freedom. 15. The method according to claim 14, wherein an origin of the first reference frame is a pivot point of the first master control device, an origin of the second reference frame is a pivot point of the second master control device, and the inputs received from the first and second master control devices are relative to a fourth reference frame having its origin mid-way between the pivot points of the first and second master control devices. 16. The method according to claim 11, wherein the estimating of the feedback error uses the transpose of a Jacobian of the first master control device. 17. The method according to claim 11, wherein the adjusting of the attribute of the image capturing device uses a difference between a sensed current state of the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device and the periodically updated set-point. 18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the adjusting of the attribute of the image capturing device is performed only after the absolute value of the difference between the sensed current state and the periodically updated set-point exceeds a threshold value. 19. The method according to claim 18, further comprising: commanding a peak force to be felt on the first master control device in the unused one of the second plurality of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device as the absolute value of the difference reaches the threshold value. 20. The method according to claim 18, wherein the adjusting of the attribute of the image capturing device is performed according to an amount by which the absolute value of the difference exceeds the threshold value. 21. A medical robotic system comprising: an image capturing device; a slave manipulator adapted to manipulate the image capturing device in four degrees-of-freedom; first and second master control devices each manipulatable in six degrees-of-freedom about its pivot point and cooperatively manipulatable in six degrees-of-freedom about a mid-point between the pivot points of the first and second master control devices; and a controller adapted to: command manipulation of the image capturing device according to the cooperative manipulation of the first and second master control devices; initially determine and periodically update a set-point of an unused one of the six degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device, wherein the periodic updating is performed by sensing a position of the unused one of the six of degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device, estimating a feedback error resulting from controlling the manipulation of the image capturing device wherein the feedback error effects a change in the set-point of the unused one of the six degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device, and determining the updated set-point using the sensed position and estimated feedback error, and wherein the set-point is a state of the unused one of the six degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device and the set-point changes as one or more of the used ones of the six degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device is use; and adjust an attribute of the image capturing device in response to manipulation of the first master control device in the unused one of the six degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device relative to the periodically updated set-point. 22. The medical robotic system according to claim 21, wherein the first master control device has a gripper and the unused one of the six degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device is a roll rotation about a longitudinal axis of the gripper. 23. The medical robotic system according to claim 21, wherein the image capturing device is a camera and the attribute of the image capturing device is its focus. 24. The medical robotic system according to claim 21, wherein the controller is adapted to adjust the attribute of the image capturing device only if a velocity metric based upon the movements of the first and second master input devices is less than a threshold velocity. 25. The medical robotic system according to claim 24, wherein the velocity metric is the absolute value of a combination of the velocities of the first and second master input devices. 26. The medical robotic system according to claim 21, wherein the controller is adapted to estimate the feedback error using the transpose of a Jacobian of the first master control device. 27. The medical robotic system according to claim 21, wherein the controller is adapted to adjust the attribute of the image capturing device using a difference between a sensed current state of the unused one of the six degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device and the periodically updated set-point. 28. The medical robotic system according to claim 27, wherein the controller is adapted to adjust the attribute of the image capturing device only after the absolute value of the difference between the sensed current state and the periodically updated set-point exceeds a threshold value. 29. The medical robotic system according to claim 28, wherein the controller is adapted to command a peak force to be felt on the first master control device so as to be associated with the unused one of the six degrees-of-freedom of the first master control device as the absolute value of the difference reaches the threshold value. 30. The medical robotic system according to claim 28, wherein the controller is adapted to adjust the attribute of the image capturing device according to an amount by which the absolute value of the difference exceeds the threshold value. 