By moving supports A and C along respective tracks (3) and (4), the free end B of robot arm (2), with gripper (5), is caused to move along a path P, the locus of which may be varied by varying the movements of the supports A and C. Motors (6) and (7) are not carried on the robot arm (2), but are secured to the frame (10) of the device (1). The robot arm (2) may thus have very low mass, resulting in very high performance in terms of speed and efficiency. The path P may comprise a NURB curve, and the time-distance function of motion of end B of arm (2) along path P may comprise a polynomial function having first and second derivative (velocity and acceleration) continuous curves.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic device comprising: a. a first track extending between first and second end points; b. a second track, non-parallel to the first track, extending between third and fourth end points; c. a first support mounted for movement along said first track between said first and second end points; d. a second support mounted for movement along said second track between said third and fourth end points; e. drive means for driving said first and second supports along their respective tracks between their respective end points such that each of said supports moves independently of the movement of the other; and f. a robot arm mounted on said first support at a first location on said arm, and mounted on said second support at a second location on said arm, spaced from said first location; g. wherein, said robot arm is mounted on said first support by a first pivot point, such that said arm pivots with respect to said first support; and h. wherein, said robot arm is mounted on said second support by a second pivot point and a linear slider, such that said arm both pivots with respect to said second support and slides linearly with respect to said second support, longitudinally on said arm. 2. A robotic device according to claim 1, wherein said tracks lie in a common plane, and said arm is arranged to move in said common plane or a plane parallel to said common plane. 3. A robotic device according to claim 1, wherein at least one of said tracks is rectilinear. 4. A robotic device according to claim 3, wherein both of said tracks are rectilinear. 5. A robotic device according to claim 4, wherein said tracks are mutually orthogonal. 6. A robotic device according to claim 1, wherein said drive means comprises a first drive means for driving said first support and a second drive means, separate from the first drive means, for driving said second support. 7. A robotic device according to claim 1, wherein each said drive means comprises a prime mover mounted on a frame of the device and connected to each respective support by a drive transmission means. 8. A robotic device according to claim 1, wherein the robot arm is rectilinear. 9. A robotic device according to claim 1, wherein said first location is at a first end of the robot arm and said second location is intermediate the ends of the robot arm. 10. A robotic device according to claim 9, wherein said arm can slide with respect to only the second of said first and second supports. 11. A robotic device according to claim 1, further comprising gripping means at a third location on said robot arm. 12. A robotic device according to claim 11, wherein said third location is at a free end of the robot arm. 13. A robotic device according to claim 1, further comprising control means for controlling said drive means. 14. A robotic device according to claim 13, wherein said control means is programmable, to control said drive means to cause said robot arm to follow a predetermined path. 15. A robotic device according to claim 14, wherein said control means is programmed to control said drive means to cause said robot arm to follow a predetermined path composed of a series of straight lines. 16. A robotic device according to claim 14, wherein said control means is programmed to control said drive means to cause said robot arm to follow a predetermined path composed of a series of straight lines and circular arcs. 17. A robotic device according to claim 14, wherein said control means is programmed to control said drive means to cause said robot arm to follow a predetermined path comprising a curve defined by a function of spatial co-ordinates that is continuous in both its first and second derivatives. 18. A robotic device according to claim 17, wherein said function is continuous in its third derivative. 19. A robotic device according to claim 17, wherein said curve comprises a non-uniform rational B-spline (NURB) curve. 20. A robotic device according to claim 14, wherein said control means is arranged to control said drive means such that the time-distance function of motion along said path comprises a polynomial function having a first derivative continuous velocity curve. 21. A robotic device according to claim 14, wherein said control means is arranged to control said drive means such that the time-distance function of motion along said path comprises a polynomial function having a second derivative continuous acceleration curve. 22. A robotic device according to claim 14, wherein said control means is arranged to control said drive means such that the time-distance function of motion along said path comprises a polynomial function having a third derivative continuous jerk curve. 23. A robotic device according to claim 14, further comprising display means for displaying a curve on a screen and modifying means for modifying the shape of the curve to define said path. 24. A robotic device according to claim 23, further comprising plan display means for displaying on the screen a plan of an area or volume in which said path is to be located, and upon which plan said path is superimposed. 25. A robotic device according to claim 23, wherein said modifying means comprises input means for moving with a click-and-drag mouse movement control points that are spaced from said curve and the positions of which affect the shape of said curve. 26. A robotic device according to claim 14, wherein said control means comprises input means for inputting co-ordinates of predetermined points on said path and interpolating means for interpolating said curve from said points. 