An operation machine displays a received image on a monitor to enable an operator to remotely control a moving unit such as a model car and robotic arms through the image provided through a network by a camera on the unit and displayed on the monitor. Plotting of the received image on the monitor is conducted at predetermined intervals in plotting timing. The plotted image becomes a predicted image subjected to a time delay process. The moving unit carrying the camera is disposed in a remote area, and connected to a personal computer through the Internet to transmit motion pictures to the computer. At this time, a fluctuation correction is made to data of the motion pictures to provide a method of displaying a natural image. The method is employed in a moving unit's remote control system enabling an operator to enjoy a precise remote control of the unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An image display method with a fluctuation correction, which method uses an operation machine to display a received image on a monitor, enabling an operator to remotely control a sensor-equipped moving unit guided by a received image which is provided through a network by a camera on the sensor-equipped moving unit and displayed on the monitor, comprising: plotting the received image on the monitor at predetermined intervals in plotting timing, and the image thus plotted is used as a predicted image which has been subjected to a time delay processing, wherein the predicted image is a pseudo image after the elapse of a predicted period of delay time and the predicted image is obtained by subjecting a received image to image processing on the basis of sensor information obtained from the moving unit. 2. The image display method with the fluctuation correction as set forth in claim 1, wherein said predicted period of delay time is calculated by subtracting: a time stamp, which is tagged to the image information received at its reception time from a system time in plotting timing of said image. 3. The image display method with the fluctuation correction as set forth in claim 1, wherein said sensor information is a travel speed of said moving unit, a deviation angle of said moving unit, and a battery voltage value of said moving unit. 4. The image display method with the fluctuation correction as set forth in claim 3, wherein, in said image processing, said received image is zoomed and/or shifted vertically, horizontally or obliquely, on the basis of said sensor information. 5. A moving unit remote control system provided with an operation machine for remotely controlling a moving unit on the basis of image information supplied from said moving unit, the improvement wherein said operation machine comprises: information receiving means for receiving information for plotting an image, which information comprises image information together with sensor information, wherein said image information is supplied from an on-moving unit camera of said moving unit; image expansion means for expanding the image data contained in said information for plotting the image having been received; image processing means for processing the thus expanded image on the basis of said sensor information having been received; operation input means for converting an operation input value, which is inputted by a controller, into control information adapted for said moving unit; and control information transmitting means for transmitting said control information having been generated by said operation input means to said moving unit; wherein said moving unit comprises: image compression means for performing an image compression in which a time stamp is tagged to an image supplied from said on-moving unit camera to prepare the image information which is transmitted to said operation machine; sensor taking-in means for taking in a travel speed of said moving unit, and a battery voltage value as the sensor information which is transmitted to the operation machine, wherein the moving unit speed is supplied from the moving unit speed sensor and the battery voltage value is supplied from the battery; means for transmitting the information for plotting the image, wherein both the image information and the sensor information are transmitted to the operation machine as said information for plotting the image; control information receiving means for receiving said control information supplied from said operation machine; and control processing means for controlling a servo and a motor on the basis of said control information having been received. 6. The moving unit remote control system as set forth in claim 5, wherein said image processing means adjusts an image plotting area for displaying said expanded image data on the basis of said sensor information having been received. 7. The moving unit remote control system as set forth in claim 6, wherein said image processing means: calculates a delay time in plotting the image by subtracting a time of the time stamp from a current system time, wherein the time stamp is stored in the image data having been expanded; calculates an image enlargement ratio based on both the delay time in plotting the image and a travel speed of said moving unit; calculates an amount of the image shift in a vertical direction or in a horizontal direction or in an oblique direction based on both the delay time in plotting the image and a deviated position of said moving unit; whereby the image plotting area is specified on the basis of both the image enlargement ratio and the amount of the image shift. 8. The moving unit remote control system as set forth in claim 5, wherein the sensor information comprises: a moving unit speed value supplied from the on-moving unit speed sensor mounted on the moving unit; and, the battery voltage value. 