A system for controlling the temperature of a semiconductor workpiece processing tool and surrounding structure, thereby reducing the deposition rates within an ion implanter. A faraday flag structure comprising a conductive strike plate coupled to a circuit for monitoring ions striking the strike plate to obtain an indication of the and a base supporting the strike plate that includes a thermally conductive material surrounding at least a portion of an outer perimeter of the strike plate. The faraday flag structure base defines a conduit for routing coolant through the thermally conductive material surrounding the strike plate. Positioned below the faraday flag is a thermally controlled cold trap that receives and retains foreign material appearing in ion implanter.
Claims We claim: 1. For use with a semiconductor processing tool having an evacuated region for treating a workpiece by directing an ion beam to strike a workpiece, apparatus comprising: a source, beam transfer structure and a workpiece support defining a path of travel for ions that impinge on one or more workpieces at an implantation station, a faraday flag structure comprising: i) a conductive strike plate coupled to a circuit for monitoring ions striking the strike plate to obtain an indication of the beam current; and ii) a base supporting the strike plate that includes a thermally conductive material surrounding at least a portion of an outer perimeter of the strike plate; and a thermally controlled structure spaced from said faraday flag structure for attracting material dislodged within an evacuated region during implanter operation. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a strike plate support coupled to the base for moving the strike plate in and out of the path of travel. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 further comprises a coolant supply line routed through the strike plate support. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the base includes a coolant path into which coolant is routed to maintain a temperature of the strike plate by dissipating heat away from said strike plate. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 additionally comprising a heater and a controller coupled to the heater for maintaining the base at a controlled first temperature and wherein the thermally controlled structure is maintained at a lower second temperature. 6. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said thermally controlled structure is coupled to said strike plate support for moving the thermally controlled structure in and out of the path of travel. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said thermally controlled structure includes a textured surface for attracting and retaining foreign material. 8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said thermally controlled structure includes a textured surface for attracting and retaining foreign material. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said thermally controlled structure includes a crenellating surface. 10. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein said thermally controlled structure includes a crenellating surface. 11. In a semiconductor processing assembly, a method of reducing and controlling contaminates within an ion implanter the assembly comprising: mounting a workpiece for processing in an evacuated region and causing a beam of ions to impact on the workpiece by accelerating them from a source to a workpiece through an evacuated travel path; positioning a strikeplate in a path of travel of said beam of ions to gather ion beam current data, and controlling a temperature of the strike plate to avoid contaminant building up in the region of the strike plate; and thermally controlling a structure spaced from said strike plate for attracting contaminates in said evacuated region. 12. The method of claim 11 further comprising providing a textured surface on said structure for containing contaminates in said evacuated region. 13. A contaminate reduction structure comprising: a) a faraday flag assembly comprising: i) a conductive strike plate coupled to a circuit for monitoring ions striking the strike plate to obtain an indication of an ion beam current; and ii) a base supporting the strike plate that includes a thermally conductive material surrounding at least a portion of an outer perimeter of the strike plate; b) a thermally controlled structure spaced from said faraday flag for attracting and retaining contaminates within an evacuated region. 14. The contaminate reduction structure of claim 13 wherein the base defines a conduit for routing coolant through the thermally conductive material surrounding the strike plate. 15. The contaminate reduction structure of claim 13, wherein said faraday flag includes an open cup. 16. The contaminate reduction structure of claim 13, wherein said thermally controlled structure includes a textured surface for receiving contaminates. 17. The contaminate reduction structure of claim 16, wherein said textured surface is a plurality of ridges. 18. The structure of claim 13 additionally comprising a heater in thermal contact with the base and a controller for turning on and off the heater to maintain the temperature of the base at a set point above a lower temperature of the thermally controlled structure. 