A surface inspection system, as well as related components and methods, are provided. The surface inspection system includes a beam source subsystem, a beam scanning subsystem, a workpiece movement subsystem, an optical collection and detection subsystem, and a processing subsystem. The system features a variable scan speed beam scanning subsystem, preferably using an acousto-optic deflector, with beam compensation, so that variable scanning speeds can be achieved. Also included are methods and systems for improving the signal to noise ratio by use of scatter reducing complements, and a system and method for selectively and repeatedly scanning a region of interest on the surface in order to provide additional observations of the region of interest.
Claims We claim: 1. A surface inspection system for inspecting a surface of a workpiece, the surface inspection system comprising: a beam source for projecting a beam toward the surface of the workpiece, an acousto-optical deflector through which the beam is projected, a scanning speed selection device operatively coupled to the acousto-optical deflector for varying a scan speed at which the acousto-optical deflector scans the beam passing through the acousto-optical deflector, a beam compensator for compensating for astigmatism of the beam associated with the variation of the scan speed, wherein the beam compensator comprises a plurality of lenses and a lens positioning device for positioning only one lens at a time of the plurality of lenses in the beam at an output of the acousto-optical deflector, where each of the plurality of lenses provides a unique amount of astigmatism compensation relative to other of the plurality of lenses, a workpiece movement subsystem that moves the workpiece and the beam relative to one another, an optical collection and detection subsystem that collects portions of the beam that are reflected from the surface of the workpiece and generates signals in response, and a processing subsystem for receiving and processing the signals. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of lenses comprises only two lenses. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of lenses comprises two cylindrical lenses, each of the two cylindrical lenses having a focal length, and the focal lengths of the two cylindrical lenses differing one from another. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the lens positioning device comprises a housing for the plurality of lenses, wherein the housing moves only one at a time of the plurality of lenses into the beam. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the lens positioning system further comprises a pneumatic pressure system. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein: each of the plurality of lenses comprises a cylindrical lens having a longitudinal lens axis, and the lens positioning device holds the plurality of lenses so that the longitudinal lens axes are substantially aligned, and moves the plurality of lenses in a direction parallel to the longitudinal lens axes. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein: each of the plurality of lenses comprises a cylindrical lens having a longitudinal lens axis, and the lens positioning device housing moves the plurality of lenses by rotating only one at a time of plurality of the lenses into the beam. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of lenses are positioned immediately adjacent to the acousto-optical deflector. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of lenses comprises cylindrical lenses. 10. A method for scanning a surface of a workpiece, the method comprising: using an acousto-optic deflector to scan a beam on the surface of the workpiece at a first scanning speed, using a first lens to compensate for a first astigmatism of the beam caused by the first scanning speed, selecting a second scanning speed different than the first scanning speed, using the acousto-optic deflector to scan the beam on the surface of the workpiece at the second scanning speed, and using a second lens to compensate for a second astigmatism of the beam caused by the second scanning speed, wherein the first lens provides a different amount of astigmatism compensation than the second lens. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam compensator further varies a focal length of a lens system in response to a change in an index of refraction in the lens system. 12. The system of claim 1, wherein the beam compensator includes a liquid lens having a changeable surface curvature. 