A system for painting an article, such as an automotive vehicle body, includes a painting booth, a conveyor for transporting articles through the painting booth, a first rail located beside and extending along the conveyor, a second rail located beside and extending along the conveyor at a lower elevation than an elevation of the first rail, a paint robot including an articulating arm mounted on the first rail for displacement along the first rail, a panel opener robot mounted on the second rail for displacement along the second rail such that the paint robot and the panel opener robot can move past each other on the rails without interference.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for painting articles, comprising: an enclosed painting booth; a conveyor for transporting articles through said painting booth; a first rail located beside and extending along said conveyor; a second rail located beside and extending along said conveyor on a same side as said first rail and at an elevation different from an elevation of said first rail, wherein said first rail is positioned at an elevation higher than said second rail; a paint robot including an articulating arm mounted on said first rail for displacement along said first rail; and a panel opener robot including an articulating arm mounted on said second rail for displacement along said second rail whereby said paint robot and said panel opener robot can move past each other on said first rail and said second rail without interference. 2. The system according to claim 1 wherein said paint robot includes a base portion supported on said first rail, and said articulating arm supported on said base portion. 3. The system according to claim 1 wherein said panel opener robot includes: a door opener robot mounted on a first track of said second rail; and a hood/deck opener robot mounted on a second track of said second rail, such that said paint robot, said door opener robot, and said hood/deck opener robot can move past each other on said first rail and said second rail without interference. 4. The system according to claim 3 wherein said door opener robot includes a base supported on said second rail, and an articulating arm supported on said base portion. 5. The system according to claim 3 wherein said hood/deck opener robot includes a base portion supported on said lower rail, and an articulating arm supported on said base portion. 6. The system according to claim 1 including a device for limiting a side swing of said articulating arm of said paint robot such that the side swing narrows progressively as said paint robot approaches a limit of its travel on said first rail. 7. The system according to claim 1 wherein said paint robot includes a carriage mounted on said first rail and supporting said paint robot for rotational displacement, the system further comprising: a bundle of elongated tubes; a lower clamp member attached to said carriage for holding a portion of said bundle therein; an upper clamp member attached to said articulating arm of said paint robot and spaced from said lower clamp member for receiving a second portion of said bundle therein; and a separator/control bar located along said bundle between said upper clamp member and said lower clamp member for securing each of said tubes to said separator/control bar at mutually spaced locations along a length of said separator/control bar. 8. The system according to claim 7 wherein said upper clamp member is a stack of connected clamps forming a first row of apertures and a second row of apertures offset and staggered with respect to said first row, said tubes being fitted into said apertures. 9. The system according to claim 7 wherein said lower clamp member is a stack of connected clamps forming a single row of apertures, said tubes being fitted into said apertures. 10. The system according to claim 7 wherein said tubes contain at least one of electric power supply, paint lines, pressurized air lines, and solvent lines. 11. The system according to claim 1 wherein said second rail is no closer to said conveyor than said first rail. 12. The system according to claim 1 wherein said second rail is disposed in substantially a same vertical plane as said first rail. 13. A method for painting articles, comprising the steps of: a. providing an enclosed painting booth; b. providing a conveyor for transporting articles through the painting booth; c. locating a first rail beside and extending along the conveyor; d. locating a second rail beside and extending along the conveyor on a same side as the first rail and at an elevation different from an elevation of the first rail, wherein said first rail is positioned at an elevation higher than said second rail; e. mounting a paint robot including an articulating arm on the first rail for displacement along the first rail; and f. mounting a panel opener robot including an articulating arm on the second rail for displacement along the second rail whereby the paint robot and the panel opener robot can move past each other on the first rail and the second rail without interference. 14. The method according to claim 13 wherein said step f. further comprises: mounting the panel opener robot on a first track of the second rail; and mounting another panel opener robot on a second track of the second rail, whereby each of the panel opener robots can pass the other one of the panel opener robots and the paint robot without interference. 15. The method according to claim 14 wherein the panel opener robot mounted on the first track of the second rail is a door opener robot and the another panel opener robot mounted on the second track of the second rail is a hood/deck opener robot. 16. The method according to claim 13 comprising at least one of the following steps: limiting a side swing of the articulating arm of the paint robot whereby the side swing narrows progressively as the paint robot approaches a limit of its travel along the conveyor in the painting booth; providing the paint robot with a tube-bundle control arrangement that allows the articulating arm to articulate in opposite directions from a straight alignment of the articulating arm; and allowing the panel opener robot on the second rail to hold a panel and to release the panel only after a second panel opener robot engages and holds the panel. 17. A system for painting articles, comprising: an enclosed painting booth; a conveyor for transporting articles through said painting booth; a first rail located beside and extending along said conveyor; a second rail located beside and extending along said conveyor on a same side as said first rail and at an elevation different from an elevation of said first rail; a paint robot including an articulating arm mounted on said first rail for displacement along said first rail; and a panel opener robot including an articulating arm mounted on said second rail for displacement along said second rail, wherein said panel opener robot includes: a door opener robot mounted on a first track of said second rail; and a hood/deck opener robot mounted on a second track of said second rail, whereby said paint robot, said door opener robot, and said hood/deck opener robot can move past each other on said first rail and said second rail without interference. 18. The system according to claim 17 wherein said door opener robot includes a base supported on said second rail, and an articulating arm supported on said base portion. 19. The system according to claim 17 wherein said hood/deck opener robot includes a base portion supported on said second rail, and an articulating arm supported on said base portion. 