The present invention relates to methods for amplifying nucleic acids in micro-channels. More specifically, the present invention relates to methods for performing a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in a continuous-flow microfluidic system and to methods for monitoring real-time PCR in such systems.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of performing real-time PCR comprising the steps of: a) continuously moving a bolus of test solution containing real-time PCR reagents in a channel; b) moving a carrier fluid in said channel, sequentially alternating with a test bolus; c) cycling the temperature in a defined section of the channel in order to achieve PCR, wherein said defined section of the channel has a uniform temperature, which temperature cycles in time; and d) measuring the intensity of the fluorescent signal at a plurality of locations along said defined section of said channel. 2. The method of claim 1, which further comprises the step of measuring the average flow speed in the channel. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the average flow speed is measured by comparing sequential images of the fluorescent signal from the channel. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the average flow speed is measured by comparing sequential images of a marker in the channel. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the marker is in the test solution. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the marker is in the carrier fluid. 7. The method of claim 2, which further comprises the step of adjusting the flow rate to control the timing of each PCR cycle. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the flow rate is adjusted by adjusting the pressure at an inlet or outlet of the channel. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the intensity of the fluorescent signal is measured at least once during each PCR cycle. 10. The method of claim 2, wherein the intensity of the fluorescent signal is measured at least once during each PCR cycle. 11. The method of claim 7, wherein the intensity of the fluorescent signal is measured at least once during each PCR cycle. 12. The method of claim 7, wherein the average flow speed is measured by comparing sequential images of the fluorescent signal from the channel. 13. The method of claim 7, wherein the average flow speed is measured by comparing sequential images of a marker in the channel. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the marker is in the test solution. 15. The method of claim 13, wherein the marker is in the carrier fluid. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of cycling the temperature further includes the steps of: i) heating said defined section of the channel to a first temperature; ii) cooling said defined section of the channel to a second temperature; and iii) heating said defined section of the channel to a third temperature. 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the first temperature is in the range of about 85.degree. C. to about 100.degree. C., the second temperature is in the range of about 20.degree. C. to about 70.degree. C. and the third temperature is in the range of about 55.degree. C. to about 80.degree. C. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said defined section of the channel has a length suitable for completing 10 to 50 cycles of PCR. 19. A method for monitoring the progress of a polymerase chain reaction in a channel, comprising the steps of: a) moving a bolus of test solution containing real-time PCR reagents in a channel; b) moving a carrier fluid in said channel, sequentially alternating with a test bolus; c) cycling the temperature in a defined section of the channel in order to achieve PCR, wherein said defined section of the channel has a uniform temperature, which temperature cycles in time; and d) capturing an image of a reaction-dependent fluorescence signal along a section of the channel; e) measuring the average flow speed in the channel; and f) relating position of the test bolus to the number of temperature cycles experienced by a test bolus from the average flow speed. 20. The method as in claim 19, wherein the average flow speed is measured by comparing sequential images of the reaction-dependent fluorescent signal from the channel. 21. The method as in claim 19, wherein the average flow speed is measured by comparing sequential images of a reaction-independent flow marker from the channel. 22. The method as in claim 21, wherein the reaction-independent flow marker is pre-mixed in the test bolus. 23. The method as in claim 21, wherein the reaction-independent flow marker is introduced to the channel as a bolus alternating with the test bolus. 24. The method as in claim 21, wherein the reaction-independent flow marker is pre-mixed in the carrier fluid. 25. The method as in claim 21, wherein scattered light from the reaction-independent flow marker is resolvable from the reaction-dependent fluorescence by wavelength spectrum. 26. The method as in claim 21, wherein scattered light from the reaction-independent flow marker is resolvable from the reaction-dependent fluorescence on the basis of fluorescence lifetime. 27. The method as in claim 21, wherein the reaction-independent flow marker is further used to determine the flow dispersion of the test bolus. 28. The method as in claim 19, wherein the image of reaction-dependent fluorescence is captured at least once per PCR cycle. 29. The method as in claim 19, wherein the image of reaction-dependent fluorescence is captured sequentially by scanning a length of the channel on a time scale shorter than the duration of one PCR cycle. 30. The method as in claim 19, wherein the image of reaction-dependent fluorescence is captured by acquiring signal from multiple points along the channel simultaneously. 31. The method as in claim 19, wherein the flow rate measurements are part of a feedback loop for regulating the flow rate. 32. The method as in claim 19, wherein the flow speed is measured through detecting a sample bolus entrance into and exit from a defined section of the channel. 