A system and method for determining relative positions of robots constrained to move along a common axis of motion, where a controller of the system has no prior knowledge of the relative positions. The robots are ordered to move in defined directions and distances and report their ability to move in the desired directions. From this information, a controller of the system can determine their relative positions.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A media library, comprising: a plurality of computer-readable media units; a device configured to read or write the media units; a plurality of robots constrained to move along a common axis of motion, wherein each robot has sensors disposed on opposite sides of the robot to indicate when the robot is touching another robot; and a controller connected to communicate with and control the plurality of robots; wherein the controller identifies relative positions of the plurality of robots on the common axis of motion by a series of commands and responses, wherein the series of commands and responses comprises: first instructions for directing the plurality of robots to move in a first direction as far as possible; second instructions for sequentially querying the plurality of robots regarding the presence of another robot on a first side that is opposite the first direction until a first one of the plurality of robots does not detect the presence of another robot on the first side; third instructions for providing an order designation for the first one of the plurality of robots and moving the first one of the plurality of robots away from ones of the plurality of robots that have not received an order designation; fourth instructions for performing the sequentially querying step and the providing step repeatedly until only a single one of the robots does not have an order designation; and fifth instructions for designating an order for the single one of the robots. 2. The media library of claim 1, wherein the media library is a robotic tape library. 3. The media library of claim 1, wherein the common axis of motion is a rail along which the plurality of robots are constrained to move. 4. The media library of claim 1, wherein the common axis of motion is substantially horizontal. 5. A method for identifying relative positions of each of a plurality of robots that are constrained to move along a common axis of motion, the method comprising the steps of: instructing each of the plurality of robots to make a series of motions that are designed to determine relative positions; collecting and storing information regarding positions of the plurality of robots; and using the information to determine relative positions of the plurality of robots; wherein the instructing and collecting steps comprise: providing a sensor that is connected to detect the passage of ones of the plurality of robots; instructing each of the plurality of robots to move in a first direction while collecting information regarding when a robot passes the sensor; collecting information from each of the plurality of robots regarding a time when each of the robots passes the sensor; instructing each of the plurality of robots to move in a second direction that is opposite the first direction while collecting information regarding when a robot passes the sensor when all of the plurality of robots have not passed the sensor; and using the information to designate an order for the plurality of robots. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein the common axis of motion is non-vertical. 7. The method of claim 5 wherein the plurality of robots are provided with a media library. 8. The method of claim 5 wherein the common axis of motion is a rail. 9. A computer program product on a computer readable media, the computer program product comprising instructions for identifying relative positions of a plurality of robots on a common axis of motion using a series of commands to and responses from the plurality of robots; wherein the instructions comprise: first instructions for repetitively performing the following three steps until all of the robots have passed a sensor or are unable to move further: (a) instructing each of the plurality of robots to move in a first direction until one of the plurality of robots passes the sensor; (b) instructing each of the plurality of robots to stop moving; (c) sequentially instructing each of the plurality of robots to move in a second direction opposite to the first direction a short distance until a given one of the robots is determined to the one that passed the sensor; second instructions for, if further information is needed to determine an order of the robots, repetitively performing the following three steps until enough information is collected to determine an order: (d) instructing each of the plurality of robots to move in the second direction until one of the plurality of robots passes the sensor; (e) instructing each of the plurality of robots to stop moving; (f) sequentially instructing each of the robots to move in the first direction a short distance until a given one of the robots is determined to be the one that passed the sensor; and designating an order for the plurality of robots. 10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the common axis of motion is a linear rail. 11. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the plurality of robots are configured to engage a data cartridge. 12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein only one sensor is provided. 13. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the plurality of robots are provided with a media library. 14. The computer program product of claim 13 wherein one sensor is provided. 15. A media library, comprising: a plurality of computer-readable media units; a device configured to read or write the media units; a plurality of robots constrained to move along a common axis of motion, wherein only a first robot and a second robot of the plurality of robots move on a given segment of the common axis of motion, and a controller connected to communicate with and control the plurality of robots; wherein none of the plurality of robots contains an indicator of position relative to each other; and wherein the controller identifies relative positions of the plurality of robots on the common axis of motion by a series of commands and responses, wherein the series of commands and responses comprises: (a) instructing the first robot to move in a first direction until it stalls; (b) instructing the second robot to move in a second, opposite direction until it stalls; (c) receiving a respective distance moved from the first and the second robots after completion of steps (a) and (b); (d) instructing the first robot to move in the second direction a given distance; (e) instructing the second robot to move in the second direction a given distance; (f) receiving a respective distance moved from the first and the second robots after completion of steps (d) and (e); and (g) designating an order for each of the first robot and the second robot. 16. The media library of claim 15 wherein the common axis of motion is substantially horizontal. 17. The media library of claim 15 wherein the plurality of robots are configured to engage a data cartridge. 18. The media library of claim 17 wherein the data cartridge contains a media for storing data. 19. The media library of claim 15 wherein the media library is a robotic tape library. 20. The media library of claim 15 further comprising a second plurality of robots, wherein the controller identifies relative positions of the second plurality of robots by a series of commands and responses, wherein the series of commands and responses comprises: first instructions to direct each of the second plurality of robots to move in a first direction as far as possible; second instructions to direct each of the second plurality of robots to hold their position; third instructions to sequentially direct each of the second plurality of robots to move in a second direction that is opposite the first direction until a first one of the second plurality of robots is able to move in the second direction; fourth instructions to provide an order designation for the first one of the second plurality of robots and to move the first one of the plurality of robots away from ones of the second plurality of robots that have not received an order designation; fifth instructions to perform the third instructions and the fourth instructions repeatedly until only a single member of the second plurality robots does not have an order designation; and sixth instructions for designating an order for the single member of the second plurality of robots. 