Various endeffector designs are disclosed for handling semiconductor wafers. For instance, an endeffector for handling wafers at a relatively low temperature is disclosed along with an endeffector for handling wafers at a relatively high temperature. Both endeffectors include uniquely designed support members that are configured to only contact a wafer at the wafer's edge. The endeffectors may also include a wafer detection system. The endeffector for handling wafers at relatively low temperatures may also include a pushing device that is used not only to position a wafer but to hold a wafer on the endeffector during acceleration or deceleration of the endeffector caused by a robot arm attached to the endeffector. As designed, the endeffectors may have a very slim profile making the endeffectors easily maneuverable.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An endeffector for handling semiconductor wafers comprising: a base member having a proximal end and a distal end, the base member having a top surface configured to receive a semiconductor wafer; a plurality of support members located on the top surface of the base member, the plurality of support members being configured to contact a wafer received on the top surface; a pushing device for positioning a wafer on the base member, the pushing device comprising a retractable piston configured to contact an edge of a semiconductor wafer, the piston being movable between an extended position and a retracted position; a biasing member placed in association with the piston, the biasing member biasing the piston towards its retracted position; a pneumatic actuator in operative association with the piston, the pneumatic actuator being configured to receive a pressurized gas that is used to overcome a force being applied to the piston by the biasing member and move the piston from the retracted position to an extended position; and a suction device positioned adjacent to the pneumatic actuator, the suction device being configured to create a suction force for capturing any particles that are released during movement of the piston. 2. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, further comprising a contact element positioned on an end of the piston for contacting a semiconductor wafer, the contact element having a flat surface. 3. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, further comprising a contact element positioned on an end of the piston for contacting a semiconductor wafer, the contact element having a convex-shaped surface. 4. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the piston is maintained in a bearing assembly positioned downstream from the pneumatic actuator, the bearing assembly preventing particles generated during movement of the piston from contacting a semiconductor wafer held on the base member. 5. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the biasing member comprises a spring. 6. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the force applied to the piston by the biasing member increases as the piston is extended. 7. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the pneumatic actuator is connected to a first gas line and a second gas line, the actuator including a driving member, the first gas line being configured to feed a gas into the pneumatic actuator for moving the driving member out of the pneumatic actuator and the second gas line being configured to feed a gas into the pneumatic actuator for retracting the driving member, the driving member being connected to the piston. 8. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, further comprising at least one position sensor for sensing the position of the piston. 9. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the pushing device is positioned at the proximal end of the base member. 10. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the endeffector has a maximum profile height of less than about 12 millimeters. 11. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the endeffector has a maximum profile height of less than about 10 millimeters. 12. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, further comprising at least one backstop member located on the base member generally opposite the pushing device, wherein the backstop member has a height sufficient for a wafer to be held in between the backstop member and the piston when the piston is at least partially extended. 13. An endeffector as defined in claim 12, wherein the base member includes a first tine spaced from a second tine, the first and second tines terminating at the distal end of the base member, each of the tines including at least one backstop member. 14. An endeffector as defined in claim 13, wherein a pair of backstop members are positioned at the end of each tine, each pair of backstop members surrounding a corresponding support member, each backstop member having a height greater than the height of the corresponding support member. 15. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein the biasing member and the pneumatic actuator are contained in a housing defined by the base member. 16. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, wherein at least certain of the support members comprise a surface configured to only contact an edge of a semiconductor wafer, the surface having a convex and eccentrical shape. 17. An endeffector as defined in claim 1, further comprising a wafer detection system comprising a light sending pathway positioned opposite a light receiving pathway across the base member, the light sending pathway being configured to emit a light beam towards the light receiver pathway, and wherein the wafer detection system is configured to detect the presence of a wafer when the light beam is intersected by the wafer. 18. An endeffector for handling semiconductor wafers comprising: a base member having a proximal end and a distal end; a plurality of support members located on the base member for contacting and supporting a wafer placed on the endeffector; wherein the endeffector has a maximum profile height of less than about 12 mm; and wherein the plurality of support members define a wafer receiving area and wherein the endeffector further comprises a pair of emergency pins located across from each other on the base member generally in a center area of the wafer receiving area between the proximal end and the distal end of the base member, the emergency pins having a height that is below the height of the support members, wherein the emergency pins do not contact the wafer when the wafer is supported upon the support members, the emergency pins for preventing a semiconductor wafer from contacting the base member. 19. An endeffector as defined in claim 18, wherein the endeffector has a maximum profile height of less than about 10 mm. 20. An endeffector as defined in claim 18, further comprising a pushing device located at the proximal end of the base member, the pushing device comprising a retractable piston configured to contact an edge of a semiconductor wafer for positioning the wafer on the base member. 21. An endeffector as defined in claim 20, wherein the endeffector has a maximum profile height of less than about 10 mm. 22. An endeffector as defined in claim 20, wherein the piston of the pushing device is in operative association with a pneumatic actuator, the pneumatic actuator being configured to receive a pressurized gas that is used to move the piston from a retracted position to an extended position. 23. An endeffector as defined in claim 22, further comprising a suction device positioned adjacent to the pneumatic actuator, the suction device being configured to create a suction force for capturing any particles that are released during movement of the piston. 24. An endeffector as defined in claim 18, wherein the plurality of support members are shaped so as to only contact a semiconductor wafer about its edge. 25. An endeffector as defined in claim 18, wherein at least certain of the support members comprise a surface configured to only contact an edge of a semiconductor wafer, the surface having a convex and eccentrical shape. 26. An endeffector as defined in claim 25, wherein the base member includes a first tine spaced from a second tine in a forked arrangement, the first and second tines terminating at the distal end of the base member, the support members having a convex and eccentrical surface being positioned at the distal end of each of the tines. 27. An endeffector as defined in claim 26, further comprising backstop members surrounding the support members located on the first tine and the second tine at the distal end of the base member, the backstop members having a height greater than the support members. 28. An endeffector as defined in claim 18, further comprising a wafer detection system comprising a light sending pathway positioned opposite a light receiving pathway across the base member, the light sending pathway being configured to emit a light beam towards the light receiving pathway, and wherein the wafer detection system is configured to detect the presence of a wafer when the light beam is intersected by the wafer. 29. An endeffector as defined in claim 18, wherein the support members are made from a material comprising polyether-ether ketone or polyoxymethylene acetal polymer. 30. An endeffector as defined in claim 29, wherein the base member is made from a material comprising a metal. 31. An endeffector for handling semiconductor wafers comprising: a base member having a proximal end and a distal end, the base member having a top surface configured to receive a semiconductor wafer; a plurality of support members located on the top surface of the base member, the plurality of support members being configured to contact a wafer received on the top surface; a pushing device for positioning a wafer on the base member, the pushing device comprising a retractable piston configured to contact an edge of a semiconductor wafer, the piston being movable between an extended position and a retracted position; a biasing member placed in association with the piston, the biasing member biasing the piston towards its retracted position; a pneumatic actuator in operative association with the piston, the pneumatic actuator being configured to receive a pressurized gas that is used to overcome a force being applied to the piston by the biasing member and move the piston from the retracted position to an extended position; wherein the plurality of support members define a wafer receiving area and wherein the endeffector further comprises a pair of emergency pins located across from each other on the base member generally in a center area of the wafer receiving area between the proximal end and the distal end of the base member, the emergency pins having a height that is below the height of the support members, wherein the emergency pins do not contact the wafer when the wafer is supported upon the support members, the emergency pins for preventing a semiconductor wafer from contacting the base member. 32. An endeffector for handling semiconductor wafers comprising: a base member having a proximal end and a distal end, the base member having a top surface configured to receive a semiconductor wafer a plurality of support members located on the top surface of the base member, the plurality of support members being configured to contact a wafer received on the top surface; a pushing device for positioning a wafer on the base member, the pushing device comprising a retractable piston configured to contact an edge of a semiconductor wafer, the piston being movable between an extended position and a retracted position; a biasing member placed in association with the piston, the biasing member biasing the piston towards its retracted position; a pneumatic actuator in operative association with the piston, the pneumatic actuator being configured to receive a pressurized gas that is used to overcome a force being applied to the piston by the biasing member and move the piston from the retracted position to an extended position; wherein the plurality of support members define a wafer receiving area and wherein the endeffector further comprises at least one peripheral emergency member located at the proximal end of the base member outside of the wafer receiving area, the emergency member having a height greater than the height of the support members for maintaining a semiconductor wafer within the wafer receiving area. 