A system and method of cleaning a plurality of teat cups (8a-d) includes using a robotic manipulation device (2) to move the plurality of teat cups (8a-d) from a first position to a second position, and cleaning the teat cups (8a-d) at a second position, wherein the robotic manipulation device (2) deposits the teat cups (8a-d) individually, in turn, at the second position.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of cleaning a plurality of teat cups, the method comprising the sequential steps of: with a robotic manipulation device, grasping each of a plurality of teat cups, located in a rest position in a teat cup magazine and moving the grasped teat cups to teats of a cow; with a teat cup retraction system, returning the teat cups from the teats of the cow to the rest position in the teat cup magazine; with the robotic manipulation device, moving the teat cups from the teat cup magazine to a cleaning implement, and cleaning the teat cups, wherein the robotic manipulation device deposits the teat cups, in turn and individually, in sealing engagement on respective wash nozzles of the cleaning implement; and with the teat cup retraction system, returning the teat cups from the cleaning implement to the rest position within the teat cup magazine. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of teat cups are deposited on the respective wash nozzles of the cleaning implement individually one after another in a predefined sequence. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of teat cups are provided in each of a plurality of milking stalls. 4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the plurality of milking stalls are provided on a platform which moves relative to the robotic manipulation device so that the plurality of milking stalls pass the robotic manipulation device one after another, and wherein the robotic manipulation device moves the teat cups of each milking stall as said each milking stall passes the robotic manipulation device. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the robotic manipulation device moves each of the plurality of teat cups into sealing engagement with the wash nozzles so as to provide a closed hydraulic circuit along which a cleaning fluid may flow. 6. The method according to claim 5, comprising the further step of pumping a cleaning fluid along said closed hydraulic circuit. 7. The method according to claim 1, comprising the further step of retracting a hose attached to, and in fluid communication with, each said teat cup so as to pull each said teat cup from the respective wash nozzles of the cleaning implement after the cleaning step. 8. A method of cleaning a plurality of teat cups, the method comprising the sequential steps of: with a robotic manipulation device, grasping each of a plurality of teat cups, located in a rest position in a teat cup magazine and moving the grasped teat cups to teats of a cow; with a teat cup retraction system, returning the teat cups from the teats of the cow to the rest position in the teat cup magazine; with the robotic manipulation device, moving the teat cups from the teat cup magazine to a cleaning implement, and cleaning the teat cups, wherein the robotic manipulation device deposits the teat cups, in turn while carrying two or more teat cups simultaneously, in sealing engagement on respective wash nozzles of the cleaning implement; and with the teat cup retraction system, returning the teat cups from the cleaning implement to the rest position within the teat cup magazine. 