A system and method for classifying follicular units based on the number of hairs in a follicular unit of interest comprises (i) acquiring a digital image of a body surface having a follicular unit of interest; (ii) selecting a region of interest with the digital image which contains the follicular unit; (iii) segmenting the selected image to produce a binary image wherein the binary image defines a contour of the follicular unit; (iv) calculating an outline profile of the binary image which disregards concavities in the contour; and (v) determining the number of defects in the outline profile to determine the number of hairs in the follicular unit. The system and method may also adjust for hairs which converge beneath the skin and for images which appear as a single wide hair but which are actually multiple hairs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of classifying a follicular unit (FU) based on a number of hairs emanating from the FU, comprising: using a processor for processing an image of a body surface containing an FU to produce a segmented image of the FU; calculating a contour of the segmented image of the FU; calculating an outline profile of the segmented image which disregards concavities in the contour of the segmented image of the FU; determining the number of defects in the outline profile; and classifying the FU at least partially based on the number of determined defects. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating an outline profile comprises calculating a convex hull contour. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein classifying the FU comprises classifying the FU as either a single hair FU or a multiple hair FU. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein in classifying the FU, a number of hairs emanating from the FU equals the determined number of defects in the outline profile plus one. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the image of a body surface containing an FU is a digital image. 6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: positioning a first camera and a second camera to be directed at the body surface, said cameras configured to provide stereo images; obtaining a first image from said first camera and selecting an FU within said first image; obtaining a second image from said second camera and selecting the same FU within said second image; tracking said FU within said first and second images; aligning said first and second cameras with an orientation of a hair of said FU; and acquiring the image of said FU with said first and second cameras aligned with the orientation of said hair. 7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting a region of interest in close proximity to the FU; determining if the region of interest contains an image of a separate hair which is not a contiguous part of the contour of the FU; and determining whether the separate hair is within a maximum distance from one or more hairs defining the contour of the FU, wherein classifying the FU is additionally based on the whether the separate hair is determined to be within a maximum distance from the hair(s) defining the contour of the FU. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the FU is classified as including each separate hair located within the maximum distance from the hair(s) defining the contour of the FU. 9. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the width of each object representing a hair in the FU, wherein classifying the FU is additionally based on a comparison of said width of each object representing a hair in the FU with a maximum expected width for a single hair. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the width includes determining a major axis and minor axis of each object representing a hair in the FU, wherein the major axis is along a length of the object representing a hair and the minor axis is transverse to the major axis. 11. The method of claim 1, further comprising acquiring the image of a body surface containing an FU, and wherein acquiring the image comprises acquiring one or more image of the same FU. 12. The method of claim 1, further comprising tracking the FU to adjust for relative movement between an image acquisition device and the FU. 13. The method of claim 1, further comprising tracking the FU by: acquiring a first image of the FU from an image acquisition device; determining a position of the FU from said first image; acquiring a second image of the FU from the image acquisition device; and determining a position of the FU from said second image. 14. The method of claim 13, wherein the image acquisition device comprises at least one camera. 15. A system for classifying a follicular unit (FU) based on the number of hairs emanating from the FU, comprising: an image acquisition device; and an image processor, the image processor configured for processing an image obtained by the image acquisition device to produce a segmented image of the FU; calculating a contour of the segmented image of the FU; calculating an outline profile of the segmented image which disregards concavities in the calculated contour of the segmented image of the FU; determining the number of defects in the outline profile; and classifying the FU at least partially based on the number of determined defects. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the image acquisition device comprises at least one camera. 17. The system of claim 15, wherein the image acquisition device is a stereo imaging device. 18. The system of claim 15, wherein the image processor is a personal computer. 19. The system of claim 15, wherein the system is a robotic system. 20. The system of claim 19, further comprising a robotic arm on which said image acquisition device is mounted. 21. The system of claim 20, further comprising a controller operatively coupled to said robotic arm and said image processor. 22. The system of claim 15, wherein the image acquisition device acquires digital images. 