Acid/sour taste receptors are provided. CSF pH sensing receptors are provided. Methods and systems for screening for tastants and receptor modulators are provided. Knock out and transgenic animals, antibodies to the receptors, methods of detecting polymorphisms, and methods of correcting taste defects are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of detecting a behavior or physiological response modulated by a human polycystin-2L1 polypeptide, comprising: (a) obtaining a transgenic mouse which lacks endogenous polycystin-2L1 polypeptide expression and whose genome comprises a DNA sequence encoding a heterologous human polycystin-2L1 polypeptide operatively linked to a promoter in a taste bud of the transgenic mouse or in a neuron of the transgenic mouse in contact with the cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF) of the transgenic mouse; (b) providing a putative tastant or modulator of the heterologous human polycystin-2L1 polypeptide to the transgenic mouse and a control mouse; and (c) monitoring the behavior or physiological response of the transgenic mouse in response to the presence of the putative tastant or modulator, wherein said response is compared to a response of a control mouse to the putative tastant or modulator, wherein the control mouse does not express the heterologous human polycystin-2L1 polypeptide in the taste bud and in a neuron in contact with CSF of the control mouse. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the behavior is a feeding behavior. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the physiological response includes respiration. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the gene comprises a heterologous promoter that is active in the taste bud of the transgenic mouse. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the heterologous promoter is selected from the group consisting of: a polycystin-2L1 taste receptor gene promoter, a T1R-gene promoter, T2R-gene promoter, TRPM5-gene promoter, a PLCB2 gene promoter, a repeater gene promoter, a gustducin gene promoter, a Gi2 gene promoter, a cytokeratin-19 gene promoter, a promoter for a gene that is naturally selectively expressed in a taste receptor cell of the tongue or palate epithelium and a promoter for a gene that is naturally expressed in neurons in contact with the CSF. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the tastant or modulator is provided on a licking device to the transgenic mouse and licking behavior of the transgenic mouse on the device is monitored. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the modulator is injected into the transgenic mouse. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the putative tastant or modulator is provided to the transgenic mouse in conjunction with a control compound and the relative frequency of feeding behavior between the putative tastant and the control compound is determined. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the tastant or modulator comprises an agonist, enhancer, antagonist, or inverse agonist of polycystin-2L1. 10. A system for detecting a behavior or physiological response modulated by a human polycystin-2L1 polypeptide, the system comprising: (a) a transgenic mouse which lacks endogenous polycystin-2L1 polypeptide expression and whose genome comprises a DNA sequence encoding a heterologous human polycystin-2L1 polypeptide operatively linked to a promoter in a taste bud of the transgenic mouse or in a neuron of the transgenic mouse in contact with the cerebro-spinal fluid (CSF) of the transgenic mouse; (b) a control mouse that does not express the heterologous human polycystin-2L1 polypeptide in the taste bud and in a neuron in contact with CSF of the control mouse; (c) a source of a putative tastant or modulator of the heterologous human polycystin-2L1 polypeptide that is accessible or deliverable to the transgenic mouse and control mouse; and (d) a detector that detects a behavior or physiological response of the transgenic mouse and control mouse in response to the putative tastant or modulator. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the transgenic mouse is a knock-out mouse deficient in endogenous polycystin-2L1 polypeptide expression, which transgenic mouse expresses a heterologous human polycystin-2L1 polypeptide. 12. The system of claim 10, wherein the source comprises a lickable device, a fluid source comprising the tastant or modulator, or a food source comprising the tastant or modulator. 13. The system of claim 10, wherein the detector comprises a camera that detects movement by the transgenic mouse. 14. The system of claim 10, wherein the detector comprises a device that detects respiration of the transgenic mouse. 15. The system of claim 10, wherein the system further comprises an analysis module operably linked to the detector, which analysis module analyzes information received from the detector. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the putative tastant or modulator is orally delivered. 17. The system of claim 10, wherein the source is configured for oral delivery to the transgenic mouse. 