The present invention relates to biomarker polypeptides, polynucleotides, and antibodies that have utility in predicting in vitro and/or in vivo hepatotoxicity of various drugs, compounds, or other therapeutic agents (i.e., test substances). Also related are screens, kits, microarrays, and cell culture systems that employ the polypeptides, polynucleotides, and/or antibodies of the invention. The reagents and methods of the invention are useful for predicting hepatotoxic effects resulting from treatment with one or more test substances, and can be utilized before, after, or concurrently with pre-clinical, clinical, and/or post-clinical testing. In this way, the reagents and methods of the invention can be used to identify test substances or combinations of test substances that cause hepatic injury, including idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity, and thereby prevent medical complications (e.g., liver failure) resulting from such injury.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of predicting idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity of a test substance comprising: (a) incubating a hepatocyte in the presence and absence of a test substance in media; and (b) comparing measured levels of at least one biomarker polypeptide from the hepatocyte in said media selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID No: 1 and 2, in the presence and absence of said test substance; wherein an elevated level of said biomarker polypeptide(s) in the presence of the test substance in said media indicates that the substance is predicted to cause idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the extracellular levels or intracellular levels of the biomarker polypeptide are measured using a method selected from the group consisting of: RIA, ELISA, immunoprecipitation, immunoblotting, immunofluorescence microscopy, indirect-immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, and immunoblotting. 3. The method according to claim 2, which is automated. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the level of the biomarker polypeptide(s) is measured using a hybridization technology selected from the group consisting of: microarrays, protein microarrays, antibody microarrays, cell-based microarrays, PCR, RT-PCR, southern blots, northern blots, and in situ hybridization. 5. The method according to claim 1 wherein said method predicts hepatotoxicity of a test substance in vitro or in vivo. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the level of said biomarker polypeptide(s) is measured using single or multi dimensional high performance liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry wherein the number of peptide hits from each protein identification are used to determine the abundance of said biomarker polypeptide(s) in the presence and absence of said test substance. 