One aspect relates to deriving at least one first X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information substantially within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual at least partially as a result of directing an at least one first applied high energy photon and/or particle having an at least one first input energy towards the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. The aspect comprises deriving at least one second X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information substantially within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially as a result of directing an at least one second applied high energy photon and/or particle having an at least one second input energy toward the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. The aspect comprises deriving an at least one combined X-ray fluorescence visualization, combined image, or combined provided information at least partially by combining the at least one first X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information with the at least one second X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method, comprising: deriving at least one first X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information substantially within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual at least partially as a result of directing an at least one first applied high energy photon and/or particle having an at least one first input energy towards the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual; deriving at least one second X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information substantially within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially as a result of directing an at least one second applied high energy photon and/or particle having an at least one second input energy toward the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual; and deriving an at least one combined X-ray fluorescence visualization, combined image, or combined provided information at least partially by combining the at least one first X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information with the at least one second X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the deriving the at least one first X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information is performed on a position-by-position basis within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one first applied high energy photon and/or particle includes at least some X-rays. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one first applied high energy photon and/or particle includes at least some gamma rays. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one first applied high energy photon and/or particle includes at least some electrons. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one first applied high energy photon and/or particle includes at least some ions. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the deriving the at least one first X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information occurs at least partially to a prescribed substantial X-ray fluorescence depth within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the deriving the at least one first X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information occurs at least partially to an X-ray fluorescence range of prescribed substantial X-ray fluorescence depths within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the deriving the at least one first X-ray fluorescence visualization, image, or provided information occurs at least partially based on scintillation. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one individual includes at least one from a group of individuals, the group of individuals includes a human, an animal, an organism, and/or a plant. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual at least partially includes a group of matter, the group of matter including at least one from at least one tissue, at least one bodily fluid, at least a portion of a bone, a boney portion, or at least one bone portion or bone fragment, at least a tooth, or a portion thereof, or an at least partially internal insert. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one first applied high energy photon and/or particle has an energy of energy range group, the energy range group including at least one of greater than or equal 1 KeV, greater than or equal to 10 KeV, or greater than or equal to 100 KeV. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one combined X-ray fluorescence visualization, combined image, or combined provided information comprises: at least one anatomical combined X-ray fluorescence visualization, combined image, or combined provided information. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one combined X-ray fluorescence visualization, combined image, or combined provided information comprises: at least one functional combined X-ray fluorescence visualization, combined image, or combined provided information. 15. An apparatus, comprising: a high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion configured to induce at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon at a X-ray fluorescence event within an at least some matter of an at least a portion of an at least one individual responsive to a first input energy being applied to the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual; a X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion configured to detect the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon; and the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion configured to determine X-ray fluorescence event information within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual about the X-ray fluorescence event independently of an at least one second input energy being applied distinctly from the first input energy. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion configured to determine X-ray fluorescence event information within the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual is configured to determine at least some matter density and at least some matter composition of the at least some matter of the at least the portion of the at least one individual. 17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the at least one induced X-ray fluorescing photon has an energy of an energy range group, the energy range group including at least one of greater than or equal to 1 KeV, greater than or equal to 10 KeV, or greater than or equal to 100 KeV. 18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein at least a portion of the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply from an energy accumulator. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion includes an X-ray based emissive structure. 20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a human user. 21. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a machine-based user. 22. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the first input energy with a controllable intensity. 23. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion includes an electron emissive structure. 24. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion includes an ion emissive structure. 25. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein an at least one operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a human user. 26. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein an at least an operative portion of the apparatus is translatable, tiltable, rotatable, or otherwise displaceable by a machine-based user. 27. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the first input energy with controllable timing. 28. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the first input energy with a controllable energy. 29. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the first input energy with at a controllable location. 30. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the high energy photon and/or particle emitter portion is configured to apply the first input energy with a controllable direction. 31. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion comprises at least one energy level detector. 32. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion comprises at least one photodetector. 33. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the X-ray fluorescence photon receiving portion comprises at least one X-ray spectrometer. 