An improved system and method for using dual energy techniques for acquiring x-ray images in two and three dimensions is disclosed. An X-ray source and detector are mounted at opposite ends of a movable C-arm. A fast movement mechanism is provided to quickly and precisely move the C-arm and detector in stepped motion about a patient. Low and high energy X-ray images are taken at each discrete step point, followed by fast movement of the source and detector to a next position with respect to the patient. Motion artifacts are eliminated by taking the high and low energy X-ray images while the C-arm is stopped. High and low energy pulses are provided through the use of a filtration arrangement which is synchronized with the frame rate of the detector to thereby optimize image collection.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for dual energy x-ray imaging, comprising: positioning an object between an x-ray source and an x-ray detector at a first position; imaging a first portion of the object by providing x-rays of a first energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge on the detector to create a first set of image data; imaging the first portion of the object by providing x-rays of a second energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge upon the detector to create a second set of image data, the second energy being different from the first energy; superposing the first and second sets of image data to generate a first superposed x-ray image; moving the x-ray source and detector to a second position with respect to the object; imaging a second portion of the object with x-rays of said first energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge on the detector, thus creating a third set of image data; imaging the second portion of the object with x-rays of said second energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge upon the detector, thus creating a fourth set of image data; and superposing the third and fourth sets of image data to generating a second superposed x-ray image; wherein the steps of imaging the first and second portions of the object are synchronized with an acquisition frame rate of the x-ray detector. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the x-ray source and x-ray detector are connected by a C-arm, and the step of moving the x-ray source and detector is accomplished by moving the C-arm with respect to the object so that the object remains in the iso-center of the source and detector. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the C-arm is connected to a high-speed movement mechanism, and the step of moving the x-ray source and detector is controlled step-wise along a predetermined path by an automated controller. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the steps of providing x-rays of said first energy and providing x-rays of said second energy comprise providing a rotating filter wheel between said x-ray source and said object, wherein said filter wheel comprises at least one filtering region for changing an energy of x-rays that pass therethrough. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said filter wheel further comprises at least one transparent region that is substantially transparent to x-rays, and wherein the filtering region takes up a substantially larger area of the filter wheel than the transparent region, the method further comprising rotating the filter wheel in synchronization with the acquisition frame rate of the x-ray detector. 6. The method of claim 5, further comprising repeating the imaging and moving steps to accumulate a library of image data sufficient to form a 3-dimensional image volume of at least a portion of said object. 7. A system for dual energy x-ray imaging, comprising: means for positioning an object between an x-ray source and an x-ray detector at a first position; means for imaging a first portion of the object by providing x-rays of a first energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge on the detector to create a first set of image data; means for imaging the first portion of the object by providing x-rays of a second energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge upon the detector to create a second set of image data, the second energy being different from the first energy; means for superposing the first and second sets of image data to generate a first superposed x-ray image; means for moving the x-ray source and detector to a second position with respect to the object; means for imaging a second portion of the object with x-rays of said first energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge on the detector, thus creating a third set of image data; means for imaging the second portion of the object with x-rays of said second energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge upon the detector, thus creating a fourth set of image data; and means for superposing the third and fourth sets of image data to generating a second superposed x-ray image; and means for synchronizing the steps of imaging the first and second portions of the object with an acquisition frame rate of the x-ray detector. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein the x-ray source and x-ray detector are connected by a C-arm, and the means for moving the x-ray source and detector comprises a C-arm that is movable with respect to the object so that the object remains in the iso-center of the source and detector. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the C-arm is connected to a high-speed movement mechanism, and the means for moving the x-ray source and detector is controlled step-wise along a predetermined path by an automated controller. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein providing x-rays of said first energy and providing x-rays of said second energy comprise providing a rotating filter wheel between said x-ray source and said object, wherein said filter wheel comprises at least one filtering region for changing an energy of x-rays that pass therethrough. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said filter wheel further comprises at least one transparent region that is substantially transparent to x-rays, and wherein the filtering region takes up a substantially larger area of the filter wheel than the transparent region, the system further comprising means for rotating the filter wheel in synchronization with the acquisition frame rate of the x-ray detector. 12. The system of claim 11, further comprising means for repeating the imaging and moving steps to accumulate a library of image data sufficient to form a 3-dimensional image volume of at least a portion of said object. 13. The system of claim 7, wherein the detector comprises a flat panel detector having an acquisition rate of from about 30 to about 60 frames per second. 14. A machine readable storage device tangibly embodying a series of instructions executable by the machine to perform a series of steps, the steps comprising: positioning an object between an x-ray source and an x-ray detector at a first position; imaging a first portion of the object by providing x-rays of a first energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge on the detector to create a first set of image data; imaging the first portion of the object by providing x-rays of a second energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge upon the detector to create a second set of image data, the second energy being different from the first energy; superposing the first and second sets of image data to generate a first superposed x-ray image; moving the x-ray source and detector to a second position with respect to the object; imaging a second portion of the object with x-rays of said first energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge on the detector, thus creating a third set of image data; imaging the second portion of the object with x-rays of said second energy from the source that pass through the object and impinge upon the detector, thus creating a fourth set of image data; and superposing the third and fourth sets of image data to generating a second superposed x-ray image; wherein the steps of imaging the first and second portions of the object are synchronized with an acquisition frame rate of the x-ray detector. 15. The machine readable storage device of claim 14, wherein the x-ray source and x-ray detector are connected by a C-arm, and the step of moving the x-ray source and detector is accomplished by moving the C-arm with respect to the object so that the object remains in the iso-center of the source and detector. 16. The machine readable storage device of claim 15, wherein the C-arm is connected to a high-speed movement mechanism, and the step of moving the x-ray source and detector is controlled step-wise along a predetermined path by an automated controller. 17. The machine readable storage device of claim 16, wherein the steps of providing x-rays of said first energy and providing x-rays of said second energy comprise providing a rotating filter wheel between said x-ray source and said object, wherein said filter wheel comprises at least one filtering region for changing an energy of x-rays that pass therethrough. 18. The machine readable storage device of claim 17, wherein said filter wheel further comprises at least one transparent region that is substantially transparent to x-rays, and wherein the filtering region takes up a substantially larger area of the filter wheel than the transparent region, the method further comprising rotating the filter wheel in synchronization with the acquisition frame rate of the x-ray detector. 19. The machine readable storage device of claim 18, further comprising repeating the imaging and moving steps to accumulate a library of image data sufficient to form a 3-dimensional image volume of at least a portion of said object. 20. The machine readable storage device of claim 14, wherein the detector comprises a flat panel detector having an acquisition rate of from about 30 to about 60 frames per second. 