A method and apparatus for moving loaded pallets from one location to another, such as from a region of an assembly line to a vertically lower region of the same assembly line. A first conveyor track is angled downwardly from a source of loaded pallets toward a diverter, which is driven to pivot about one end. The diverter receives the pallet when the diverter is parallel to the first conveyor track and then pivots to a horizontal orientation at which it is unloaded. Upon the last object on the pallet being removed, the diverter pivots downwardly to become parallel to a second conveyor track that is angled downwardly from the diverter, and is released to slide down the second conveyor track. The pallet is preferably precisely located and clamped in the diverter.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of moving a pallet with at least one object disposed thereon from a first level to a second level, the method comprising: (a) conveying the pallet with said at least one object disposed thereon toward a diverter; (b) conveying the pallet onto the diverter while the diverter is disposed at a first angle relative to horizontal; (c) moving the diverter from the first angle to a second angle relative to horizontal that is different from the first angle, and moving the pallet with the diverter; (d) holding the diverter stationary at the second angle while removing said at least one object from the pallet; (e) moving the diverter from the second angle to a third angle relative to horizontal that is different from the second angle, and moving the pallet with the diverter; and (f) conveying the pallet away from the diverter while the diverter is disposed at the third angle. 2. The method in accordance with claim 1, further comprising the step of releasably fixing the pallet to the diverter. 3. The method in accordance with claim 2, wherein the step of releasably fixing the pallet to the diverter further comprises clamping the pallet. 4. The method in accordance with claim 2, further comprising the step of releasing the pallet from the diverter. 5. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the second angle is substantially equal to horizontal. 6. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the step of conveying the pallet toward the diverter further comprises disposing a conveyor belt beneath the pallet and driving the conveyor belt. 7. The method in accordance with claim 5, wherein the step of conveying the pallet away from the diverter further comprises disposing a conveyor track beneath the pallet. 8. A method of moving a pallet with at least one object disposed thereon from a first level vertically to a second level, the method comprising: (a) conveying the pallet with the object disposed thereon along a first conveyor track from an upper conveyor track end toward a diverter disposed adjacent a lower conveyor track end; (b) conveying the pallet onto the diverter while the diverter is disposed substantially parallel to the first conveyor track; (c) releasably fixing the pallet to the diverter; (d) pivoting the diverter to a substantially horizontal orientation, thereby moving the pallet to substantially horizontal; (e) holding the diverter stationary at the substantially horizontal orientation while removing the object from the pallet; (f) pivoting the diverter from the substantially horizontal orientation to substantially parallel to a second conveyor track having an upper conveyor track end adjacent the diverter and a lower conveyor track end spaced from the diverter, thereby moving the pallet with the diverter; (g) releasing the pallet from the diverter; and (h) conveying the pallet onto the second conveyor track while the diverter is substantially parallel to the second conveyor track. 9. The method in accordance with claim 8, further comprising the step of stopping the pallet along the first conveyor track and releasing the pallet to be conveyed onto the diverter. 10. The method in accordance with claim 9, further comprising the step of driving the pallet onto the diverter. 11. The method in accordance with claim 9, further comprising the step of positively locating the pallet on the diverter. 