The present invention provides grasping mechanisms, gripper apparatus/systems, and related methods. Grasping mechanisms that include stops, support surfaces, and height adjusting surfaces to determine three translational axis positions of a grasped object are provided. In addition, grasping mechanisms that are resiliently coupled to other gripper apparatus components are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A grasping mechanism, comprising movably coupled arms that are structured to grasp an object, wherein: i) the arms are movably coupled to each other such that the arms can move towards or away from each other along a first axis; ii) the arms are attached to a body that comprises a resilient coupling which allows the arms to move in a direction substantially perpendicular to the first axis; and iii) one or more of the arms comprise at least one support surface and/or at least one height adjusting surface, wherein the support surface and the height adjusting surface form a channel to grasp the object. 2. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the grasping mechanism is structured to grasp the object between the arms. 3. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the resilient coupling allows the arms to move along a y-axis. 4. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the arms comprise a polished or coated surface that reduces friction between the object and the arms, relative to an unpolished or non-coated surface, when the object is grasped by the arms. 5. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the arms comprise one or more rollers that reduce friction between the object and the grasping mechanism, relative to arms that lack the rollers, when the object is grasped by the arms. 6. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, further comprising the object. 7. The grasping mechanism of claim 6, wherein the object is selected from the group consisting of: a plate, a sample plate, a micro-well plate, a reaction block, a reaction block carrier, a sample holder, a petri dish, a test tube, a vial, a crucible, a reaction vessel, a reaction flask, a semi conductor wafer, a CD, and a tray. 8. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein at least one arm comprises a stop. 9. The grasping mechanism of claim 8, wherein the stop is structured to determine a y-axis position of the object. 10. The grasping mechanism of claim 9, wherein the y-axis position of the object is determined with an accuracy to within about 0.1 millimeters. 11. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein an interface between the arms and the body comprises at least one spring, which spring resiliently couples the arms to the body. 12. The grasping mechanism of claim 11, wherein the interface comprises a sliding interface. 13. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein each support surface is disposed between two height adjusting surfaces, which height adjusting surfaces are angled to push the object into contact with the support surface when the object is grasped. 14. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the support surface comprises a substantially horizontal surface to support the object and the height adjusting surface comprises an angled surface that intersects with the substantially horizontal surface, which angled surface pushes the object into contact with the substantially horizontal surface when the arms grasp the object. 15. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein at least one of the arms comprise a pivot member, which pivot member comprises the support surface and the height adjusting surface. 16. The grasping mechanism of claim 15, wherein the pivot member is resiliently coupled to the arm. 17. The grasping mechanism of claim 16, wherein the arm further comprises a stop that is resiliently coupled to the arm. 18. The grasping mechanism of claim 1, wherein the support surface determines an x-axis position of the object and the height adjusting surface determines a z-axis position of the object when the arms grasp the object. 