A simulated consciousness method (10) for an improved human/computer interface. A computer system (12) is programmed to have a Digital Life Form (32) possessing a plurality of attributes (65). A plurality of actions (64) taken relative to objects (60) in the environment (30) contribute to simulated feelings (76) which ultimately control the viability of the Digital Life Form (32). When there are not sufficient energy packets (66) to sustain the Digital Life Form (32) then simulated death 52 results. Therefore, only actions (64) which contribute to the viability of the Digital Life Form (32) are repeated in the long-run. Some of those actions (64) include perception of reality, concept formation, and natural language processing.
Claims I claim: 1. A computer generated entity, comprising: primary data associated with primary goals of said computer generated entity and indicative of the extent to which said primary goals are currently met, at least one of said primary goals being the continued existence of said computer generated entity; a first programming layer operating on said primary data to simulate life processes of said computer generated entity; secondary data including values associated with a plurality of simulated feelings, said values of said secondary data being dependent at least in part on said primary data; a plurality of actions, at least one of which will affect the vitality of the entity; and a second programming layer to simulate consciousness of said computer generated entity, said second programming layer including at least one perceive process and at least one action selection process; and wherein said perceive process identifies subsequently encountered objects by comparing discerned characteristics of the subsequently encountered objects with at least one percept, each percept identifying discernable characteristics of a respective one of said objects; and said action selection routine is operative to select an action from said plurality of actions based on said secondary data and an encountered object identified by said perceive process. 2. The computer generated entity of claim 1, further comprising a consequence process operative to associate changes in said primary data with a preceding action. 3. The computer generated entity of claim 2, wherein said action selection routine selects actions based at least in part on said associations of said consequence process. 4. The computer generated entity of claim 1, further comprising a consequence process operative to associate changes in said primary data with an object identified by said perceive process. 5. The computer generated entity of claim 4, wherein said consequence process is additionally operative to associate changes in said primary data with a preceding action. 6. The computer generated entity of claim 4, wherein said action selection routine selects actions based at least in part on said associations of said consequence process. 7. The computer generated entity of claim 1, further comprising a consequence process operative to associate changes in said secondary data with a preceding action. 8. The computer generated entity of claim 7, wherein said action selection routine selects actions based at least in part on said associations of said consequence process. 9. The computer generated entity of claim 1, further comprising a consequence process operative to associate changes in said secondary data with an object identified by said perceive process. 10. The computer generated entity of claim 9, wherein said consequence process is additionally operative to associate changes in said secondary data with a preceding action. 11. The computer generated entity of claim 9, wherein said action selection routine selects actions based at least in part on said associations of said consequence process. 12. The computer generated entity of claim 1, wherein said action selection routine is operative to select actions to optimize at least one said values of said secondary data. 13. A computer generated entity, comprising: primary data associated with primary goals of said computer generated entity and indicative of the extent to which said primary goals are currently met; a life processes routine operating on said primary data to simulate life processes of said computer generated entity; secondary data including values associated with a plurality of simulated feelings, said values of said secondary data being dependent at least in part on said primary data; a feelings routine operative to monitor said primary data and update said secondary data responsive to changes in said primary data; a plurality of actions, at least one of which will affect said primary goals; and a perceive process operative to identify subsequently encountered objects by comparing discerned characteristics of the subsequently encountered objects with at least one percept, each percept identifying discernable characteristics of a respective one of said objects; and an action selection routine operative to select an action from said plurality of actions based on said secondary data and an encountered object identified by said perceive process. 14. The computer generated entity of claim 13, wherein at least one of said primary goals is the continued existence of said computer generated entity. 15. The computer generated entity of claim 13, further comprising a consequence process operative to associate changes in said primary data with a preceding action. 16. The computer generated entity of claim 15, wherein said action selection routine selects actions based at least in part on said associations of said consequence process. 17. The computer generated entity of claim 13, further comprising a consequence process operative to associate changes in said primary data with an object identified by said perceive process. 