A disclosed scanner apparatus includes a member having spaced apart proximal and distal portions. An electromagnetic radiation device is configured to direct electromagnetic radiation therefrom and is moveably coupled to the distal portion of the member. The electromagnetic radiation device is configured to move in a first plane of movement to a first position to direct the electromagnetic radiation along a first path and configured to move in the plane of movement to a second position to direct the electromagnetic radiation along a second path. A MicroElectroMechanical Systems (MEMS) actuator is coupled to the electromagnetic radiation device, wherein the MEMS actuator is configured to move in a first direction to move the electromagnetic radiation device to the first position and configured to move in a second direction to move the electromagnetic radiation device to the second position. Other scanning and robotic structure devices are disclosed.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A scanner apparatus comprising: a member having spaced apart proximal and distal portions; an electromagnetic radiation device, configured to direct electromagnetic radiation, moveably coupled to the distal portion of the member and configured to move in a first plane of movement to a first position to direct the electromagnetic radiation along a first path and configured to move in the plane of movement to a second position to direct the electromagnetic radiation along a second path; and a MicroElectroMechanical Systems (MEMS) actuator coupled to the electromagnetic radiation device, wherein the MEMS actuator is configured to move in a first direction to move the electromagnetic radiation device to the first position and configured to move in a second direction to move the electromagnetic radiation device to the second position, wherein the MEMS actuator comprises an integrated force array actuator, wherein the electromagnetic radiation device comprises a reflector, wherein the scanner apparatus further comprises: an electromagnetic radiation source that projects electromagnetic radiation on the reflector; and an ultrasound source on the reflector that is configured to generate ultrasonic radiation. 2. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising: a hinge that moveably couples the electromagnetic radiation device to the distal portion of the member, wherein the electromagnetic radiation device pivots in the plane of movement about the hinge when the electromagnetic radiation device is moved by MEMS actuator. 3. A scanner apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the hinge comprises one of a torsion hinge and a flexion hinge. 4. A scanner apparatus according to claim 2 wherein the hinge comprises polyimide. 5. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1: wherein the MEMS actuator has proximal and distal portions; and wherein the distal portion of the MEMS actuator is coupled to the member. 6. A scanner apparatus according to claim 5 wherein the distal portion of the MEMS actuator is coupled to the proximal portion of the member. 7. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising: a frame coupled to the distal portion of the member, the frame having first and second opposing portions; a first hinge that moveably couples the electromagnetic radiation device to the first opposing portion of the frame; and a second hinge that moveably couples the electromagnetic radiation device to the second opposing portion of the frame, wherein the first and second hinges define an axis therethrough about which the electromagnetic radiation device pivots in the plane of movement when the electromagnetic radiation device is moved by MEMS actuator. 8. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the MEMS actuator comprises a first MEMS actuator, the scanner apparatus further comprising: a first frame coupled to the distal portion of the member, the first frame having two opposing portions that define an interior region the first frame; first and second hinges on the first and second opposing portions of the first frame respectively, wherein the first and second hinges define a first axis therethrough; a second frame in the interior region of the first frame and coupled to the first MEMS actuator, the second frame defining an interior region of the second frame within which the electromagnetic radiation device is located, wherein the second frame has first and second opposing portions, wherein the second frame is movably coupled to the first frame by the first and second hinges to pivot about the first axis when moved by the first MEMS actuator; third and fourth hinges that moveably couple the first and second opposing portions of the second frame to the electromagnetic radiation device, wherein the third and fourth hinges define a second axis therethrough that is substantially orthogonal to the first axis; and a second MEMS actuator coupled to the electromagnetic radiation device, wherein the second MEMS actuator is configured to pivot the electromagnetic radiation device about the second axis when moved. 9. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the electromagnetic radiation device comprises a reflector, wherein the scanner apparatus further comprises: an electromagnetic radiation source that projects electromagnetic radiation on the reflector, wherein the electromagnetic radiation source is selected from the list consisting of a laser light source, a confocal microscope system, an ultraviolet light source, an infrared light source, an image data source, and an Alexandrite laser. 10. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the reflector comprises gold. 11. A scanner apparatus comprising: a member having spaced apart proximal and distal portions; an electromagnetic radiation device, configured to direct electromagnetic radiation, moveably coupled to the distal portion of the member and configured to move in a first plane of movement to a first position to direct the electromagnetic radiation alone a first path and configured to move in the plane of movement to a second position to direct the electromagnetic radiation along a second path; and a MicroElectroMechanical Systems (MEMS) actuator coupled to the electromagnetic radiation device, wherein the MEMS actuator is configured to move in a first direction to move the electromagnetic radiation device to the first position and configured to move in a second direction to move the electromagnetic radiation device to the second position, wherein the electromagnetic radiation device comprises a focusing reflector that reflects electromagnetic radiation projected thereon to direct reflected electromagnetic radiation along a path, wherein the electromagnetic radiation is focused at a distance from the focusing reflector along the path. 12. A scanner apparatus according to claim 11, the focusing reflector further comprising: a substrate layer; a reflective layer on the substrate layer; an optically transparent layer, on the reflective layer, having a convex surface configured to face away from the reflective layer, wherein the electromagnetic radiation passes through the optically transparent layer to the reflective layer and reflects from the reflective layer through the optically transparent layer along the path. 13. A scanner apparatus according to claim 11, the focusing reflector further comprising: a substrate layer having a concave surface; and a reflective layer on the concave surface, wherein the electromagnetic radiation reflects from the reflective layer along the path. 14. A scanner apparatus according to claim 11, the focusing reflector further comprising: a voltage supply that generates a voltage level; a substrate layer electrically coupled to the voltage supply; a flexible membrane layer spaced apart from the substrate layer and electrically coupled to the voltage supply, wherein the flexible membrane is configured to deflect towards the substrate layer to assume a concave shape in response to the voltage level; a reflective layer on the flexible membrane layer that is configured to reflect the electromagnetic radiation along the path. 15. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the electromagnetic radiation device comprises a lens, wherein the scanner apparatus further comprises: an electromagnetic radiation source that projects electromagnetic radiation through the lens along the path. 16. A scanner apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the electromagnetic radiation device comprises one of a LED, a semiconductor laser, and an incandescent light that is configured to direct the electromagnetic radiation along the path. 17. A scanner apparatus according to claim 11 further comprising: a hinge that moveably couples the electromagnetic radiation device to the distal portion of the member, wherein the electromagnetic radiation device pivots in the plane of movement about the hinge when the electromagnetic radiation device is moved by the MEMS actuator. 18. A scanner apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the hinge comprises one of a torsion hinge and a flexion hinge. 19. A scanner apparatus according to claim 17 wherein the hinge comprises polyimide. 20. A scanner apparatus according to claim 11: wherein the MEMS actuator has proximal and distal portions; and wherein the distal portion of the MEMS actuator is coupled to the member. 21. A scanner apparatus according to claim 20 wherein the distal portion of the MEMS actuator is coupled to the proximal portion of the member. 22. A scanner apparatus according to claim 11 further comprising: a frame coupled to the distal portion of the member, the frame having first and second opposing portions; a first hinge that moveably couples the electromagnetic radiation device to the first opposing portion of the frame; and a second hinge that moveably couples the electromagnetic radiation device to the second opposing portion of the frame, wherein the first and second hinges define an axis therethrough about which the electromagnetic radiation device pivots in the plane of movement when the electromagnetic radiation device is moved by the MEMS actuator. 23. A scanner apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the MEMS actuator comprises a first MEMS actuator, the scanner apparatus further comprising: a first frame coupled to the distal portion of the member, the first frame having two opposing portions that define an interior region of the first frame; first and second hinges on the first and second opposing portions of the first frame respective, wherein the first and second hinges define a first axis therethrough; a second frame in the interior region of the first frame and coupled to the first MEMS actuator, the second frame defining an interior region of the second frame within which the electromagnetic radiation device is located, wherein the second frame has first and second opposing portions, wherein the second frame is movably coupled to the first frame by the first and second hinges to pivot about the first axis when moved by the first MEMS actuator; third and fourth hinges that moveably couple the first and second opposing portions of the second frame to the electromagnetic radiation device, wherein the third and fourth hinges define a second axis therethrough that is substantially orthogonal to the first axis; and a second MEMS actuator coupled to the electromagnetic radiation device, wherein the second MEMS actuator is configured to pivot the electromagnetic radiation device about the second axis when moved. 24. A scanner apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the scanner apparatus further comprises: an electromagnetic radiation source that projects electromagnetic radiation on the reflector, wherein the electromagnetic radiation source is selected from the list consisting of a laser light source, a confocal microscope system, an ultraviolet light source, an infrared light source, an image data source, and an Alexandrite laser. 25. A scanner apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the scanner apparatus further comprises: an electromagnetic radiation source that projects electromagnetic radiation on the reflector; and an ultrasound source on the reflector that is configured to generate ultrasonic radiation. 26. A scanner apparatus according to claim 25 wherein the reflector comprises gold. 