An automated modular storage library is formed by a plurality of available library elements. Each available library element is selected from a predetermined limited subset of library elements made available for library assembly. This creates a library that is modular by restricting the library elements used during assembly to the limited subset of library elements. According to a partial audit principle, an area where an intervention is to be performed may be physically separated prior to the intervention. After the intervention, the partial audit is conducted in a separated area where the intervention occurred, as the remainder of the library was protected during the intervention by the physical separation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated modular storage facility method, wherein an automated storage facility is assembled from basic configuration elements, the method comprising: defining a limited subset of basic configuration elements, the limited subset including a blank wall segment, a storage wall segment, a corner segment, a U-turn element, an elevator segment, and a robot; making the basic configuration elements that are in the limited subset of basic configuration elements available; and assembling a plurality of available basic configuration elements to form an automated storage facility including at least one of each basic configuration element that is in the limited subset of basic configuration elements, thereby creating a facility that is modular by restricting the basic configuration elements used during assembly to the limited subset of basic configuration elements. 2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: assembling a plurality of available basic configuration elements to form a complete self-sufficient automated data storage facility from available configuration elements. 3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: assembling a plurality of available basic configuration elements to form a more complex sub-facility part composed of available basic configuration elements; and making the more complex sub-facility part available as a member of the limited subset of basic configuration elements. 4. The method of claim 3 further comprising: assembling a plurality of available basic configuration elements to form a complete self-sufficient automated data storage facility from available basic configuration elements. 