A method includes installing a device under test (DUT) into each of a plurality of burn-in boards. The method further includes docking each of the burn-in boards to a respective docking location, each of the burn-in boards with a single respective DUT installed therein. The method further includes subjecting the DUTs to a self-heating burn-in procedure while the burn-in boards are docked to the docking locations. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A semiconductor device comprising: a thermal sensing circuit to monitor an internal temperature of the semiconductor device; and a terminal pin coupled to the thermal sensing circuit to provide a signal external to the semiconductor device, the signal to indicate whether the internal temperature exceeds a threshold temperature; wherein the thermal sensing circuit includes: a thermal sensor; and one or more fuses coupled to the thermal sensor and programmed to set the threshold temperature. 2. A semiconductor device comprising: a thermal sensing circuit to monitor an internal temperature of the semiconductor device; a terminal pin coupled to the thermal sensing circuit to provide a signal external to the semiconductor device, the signal to indicate whether the internal temperature exceeds a threshold temperature; a plurality of gates; and a multiplexer coupled to the plurality of gates; wherein the thermal sensing circuit is coupled to the multiplexer and is adapted to supply to the multiplexer a signal which is identical to the signal provided by the terminal pin, the multiplexer to select, in response to the signal supplied by the thermal sensing circuit, a clock signal out of a plurality of clock signals supplied to the multiplexer to toggle the plurality of gates to generate heat internally to the device for burn-in. 3. The semiconductor device of claim 2, further comprising: a state machine coupled to the gates to execute a plurality of test modes during burn-in. 4. A system comprising: one or more dynamic random access memory (DRAM) devices; and a chipset coupled to the one or more DRAM devices, the chipset including a device, wherein the device includes: a thermal sensing circuit to monitor an internal temperature of the device; and a terminal pin coupled to the thermal sensing circuit to provide a signal external to the device, the signal to indicate whether the internal temperature exceeds a threshold temperature; wherein the thermal sensing circuit includes: a thermal sensor; and one or more fuses coupled to the thermal sensor and programmed to set the threshold temperature. 5. A system comprising: one or more dynamic random access memory (DRAM) devices; and a chipset coupled to the one or more DRAM devices, the chipset including a device, wherein the device includes: a thermal sensing circuit to monitor an internal temperature of the device; and a terminal pin coupled to the thermal sensing circuit to provide a signal external to the device, the signal to indicate whether the internal temperature exceeds a threshold temperature; wherein the device further includes: a plurality of gates; and a multiplexer coupled to the plurality of gates; wherein the thermal sensing circuit is coupled to the multiplexer and is adapted to supply to the multiplexer a signal which is identical to the signal provided by the terminal pin, the multiplexer to select, in response to the signal supplied by the thermal sensing circuit, a clock signal out of a plurality of clock signals supplied to the multiplexer to toggle the plurality of gates to generate heat internally to the device for burn-in. 6. The system of claim 5 wherein the device further includes a state machine coupled to the gates to execute a plurality of test modes during burn-in. 