An integrated system is disclosed for workpiece handling and/or inspection at the front end of a tool. The system comprises a rigid member of unitary construction such as a metal plate which mounts to the front of a tool associated with a semiconductor process. The front end components, including the load port assemblies, prealigners and workpiece handling robot, are mounted to the plate to provide precise and repeatable positioning of the front end components with respect to each other.
Claims We claim: 1. A system for transporting a workpiece, comprising: a first process tool having a plate mounted to a front end of said first process tool, a load port assembly and a port door, said plate having a port door aperture and a workpiece transfer opening, said port door for moving between a open position and a closed position; a second process tool having a plate mounted to a front end of said second process tool, a load port assembly and a port door, said plate having an port door aperture and a workpiece transfer opening, said port door for moving between a open position and a closed position; a workpiece transfer tunnel providing an enclosed connection between said workpiece transfer opening of said first process tool and said workpiece transfer opening of said second process tool; and a workpiece transfer apparatus for receiving a workpiece from the interior of said first process tool through said workpiece transfer opening and transporting the workpiece within said workpiece transfer tunnel directly to said workpiece transfer opening of said second process tool, wherein said workpiece is transported in a horizontal orientation; wherein multiple workpieces are transported in a stacked horizontal orientation and wherein each of the multiple workpieces are supported on a bottom peripheral edge. 2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said workpiece transfer opening in said plate of said first and second process tools is located at a lower elevation in said plate than said port door aperture. 3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said port door of said second process tool, when located in said open position, allows a workpiece to pass unobstructed through said port door aperture and said workpiece transfer opening. 4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said load port assembly of said first process tool includes a container advance plate for moving a container towards and away from said plate. 5. The systems as recited in claim 4, further including a workpiece handling robot being adapted to access both said container and said workpiece transfer opening. 6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein said load port assembly of said second process tool includes a container advance plate for moving a container towards and away from said plate. 7. The systems as recited in claim 6, further including a workpiece handling robot being adapted to access both the container and said workpiece transfer opening. 8. A system for transporting a workpiece between a first process tool and a second process tool, the first and second process tools each include an interior, a front plate having a port door aperture and a workpiece transfer opening, the system comprising: a workpiece transfer tunnel providing an enclosed connection between the workpiece transfer opening of the first process tool and the workpiece transfer opening of the second process tool; and a workpiece transfer apparatus for receiving a workpiece from the interior of the first process tool through the workpiece transfer opening and transporting the workpiece within said workpiece transfer tunnel to the workpiece transfer opening of the second process tool, wherein said workpiece is transported in a horizontal orientation; wherein multiple workpieces are transported in a stacked horizontal orientation and wherein each of the multiple workpieces are supported on a bottom peripheral edge. 9. The system as recited in claim 8, wherein the workpiece transfer opening in the front plate of the first process tool is located at a lower elevation in the front plate than the port door aperture. 10. The system as recited in claim 8, wherein the workpiece transfer opening in the front plate of the second process tool is located at a lower elevation in the front plate than the port door aperture. 11. A system for transporting a workpiece between the interior of a first process tool and a the interior of a second process tool, wherein both the first and second process tools each have a front end, the system comprising: a first front plate being adapted to secure to the front end of the first process tool, said first front plate having a port door aperture and a workpiece transfer opening; a second front plate being adapted to secure to a front end of the second process tool, said second front plate having a port door aperture and a workpiece transfer opening; a workpiece transfer mechanism for transferring a workpiece directly between said workpiece transfer opening of said first front plate and said workpiece transfer opening of said second front plate, including: a workpiece transfer tunnel connected between said workpiece transfer opening of said first front plate and said workpiece transfer opening of said second front plate; a workpiece transfer apparatus for receiving a workpiece from the interior of the first process tool through the workpiece transfer opening of said first front plate and transporting the workpiece within said workpiece transfer tunnel to said workpiece transfer opening of said second front plate, wherein said workpiece is transported in a horizontal orientation; wherein multiple workpieces are transported in a stacked horizontal orientation and wherein each of the multiple workpieces are supported on a bottom peripheral edge. 12. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein said workpiece transfer opening in said first front plate is located at a lower elevation in said first front plate than said port door aperture. 13. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein said workpiece transfer opening in said second front plate is located at a lower elevation in said second front plate than said port door aperture. 