A heart monitoring system for a person includes one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless mesh network and a wearable appliance having a sound transducer coupled to the wireless transceiver; and a heart disease recognizer coupled to the sound transducer to determine cardiovascular health and to transmit heart sound over the wireless mesh network to a remote listener or processor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A heart monitoring system for a person, comprising: one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless mesh network; and a wearable appliance having a wireless transceiver adapted to communicate with the one or more wireless nodes; a sound transducer coupled to the wireless transceiver; and a heart disease recognizer coupled to the sound transducer and programmed to determine cardiovascular health and to transmit heart sound over the wireless mesh network to a remote location if the heart disease recognizer identifies a cardiovascular problem. 2. The system of claim 1, comprising an accelerometer to detect a dangerous condition and to generate a warning when the dangerous condition is detected. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance is coupled to one of: a plain old telephone service (POTS) network and a public switched telephone network (PSTN) network through the mesh network. 4. The system of claim 1, comprising one of: EKG detector, ECG detector, electromagnetic detector, ultrasonic detector, optical detector, a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) recognizer, a dynamic time warp (DTW) recognizer, a neural network, a fuzzy logic engine. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance monitors patient movement. 6. The system of claim 1, comprising an in-door positioning system coupled to one or more mesh network appliances to provide location information. 7. The system of claim 1, comprising a call center coupled to the appliance to provide a human response. 8. The system of claim 1, comprising a web server coupled to the mesh network and to the plain old telephone service (POTS) to provide information to an authorized remote user. 9. The system of claim 1, comprising a wireless router coupled to the mesh network and wherein the wireless router comprises one of: 802.11 router, 802.16 router, WiFi router, WiMAX router, Bluetooth router, X10 router. 10. The system of claim 1, comprising a mesh network appliance coupled to a power line to communicate X10 data to and from the mesh network. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network. 12. The system of claim 1, comprising computer readable code to transmit a help request to a remote computer. 13. The system of claim 1, comprising voice over IP (VOIP) code to allow a user and a remote person to audibly communicate with each other. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the appliance transmits and receives voice from the person over the mesh network to one of: a doctor, a nurse, a medical assistant, a caregiver, an emergency response unit, a family member. 15. The system of claim 1, comprising code to store and analyze patient information. 16. The system of claim 15, wherein the patient information includes medicine taking habits, eating and drinking habits, sleeping habits, or excise habits. 17. The system of claim 1, further comprising a patient interface for accessing information including: a touch screen; voice-activated text reading; and one touch telephone dialing. 18. The system of claim 1, comprising code to store and analyze information relating to the person's habit. 19. The system of claim 1, comprising: one or more cameras positioned to capture three dimensional (3D) video of the patient; and a server coupled to the one or more cameras, the server executing code to detect a dangerous condition for the patient based on the 3D video and allow a remote third party to view images of the patient when the dangerous condition is detected. 20. A monitoring system for a person, comprising: one or more wireless nodes forming a wireless mesh network; and a wearable appliance having a wireless transceiver adapted to communicate with the one or more wireless nodes; a sound transducer coupled to an artery; and a heart sound analyzer coupled to the sound transducer and the wireless transceiver, the heart sound analyzer programmed to detect cardiovascular health and transmit the heart sound from the sound transducer over the wireless mesh network to a remote location to render assistance. 