A system, method and apparatus for taking a Raman spectrum of a sample is disclosed. In one embodiment, for example, an integrated Raman spectrometer is provided. In another embodiment, a portable Raman spectrometer is provided. In another embodiment, a Raman spectrometer is provided comprising a collimated beam tube for transmitting excitation radiation to an external optical system, such as a microscope, a telescope or a camera lens. In another embodiment, a method for correcting a Raman spectrum for background interference is provided. In yet another embodiment, a method for rejecting fluorescence in a Raman spectrometer is provided. A chemical reactor comprising a built-in Raman detector for monitoring a chemical reaction in a reaction chamber of the reactor is also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A spectrometer for obtaining Raman spectrum information from a sample, the spectrometer comprising: a light source for providing an excitation radiation; a detector for detecting Raman scattered light; an optical system for directing said excitation radiation toward the sample, receiving Raman scattered light from the sample, and providing the Raman scattered light to said detector, wherein said optical system comprises a collimated beam tube for transmitting said excitation radiation in the form of a collimated light signal on-axis to the sample via an external optical system. 2. The spectrometer of claim 1, wherein said external optical system comprises at least one of a microscope, a telescope and a camera lens. 3. The spectrometer of claim 1, wherein the spectrometer is adapted to couple to a microscope to provide microscopic Raman spectroscopy analysis. 4. The spectrometer of claim 1, wherein a microscopic Raman spectroscopy system comprises the spectrometer coupled to a microscope. 5. The spectrometer of claim 1, wherein the spectrometer is adapted to couple to the external optical system to provide remote Raman spectroscopy analysis. 6. The spectrometer of claim 1, wherein a remote Raman spectroscopy system comprises the spectrometer coupled to a telescope. 7. The spectrometer of claim 1, wherein said collimated beam tube comprises a quartz material. 8. The spectrometer of claim 7, wherein said collimated beam tube comprises a quartz tube. 9. The spectrometer of claim 1, wherein said collimated beam tube comprises an output module. 10. The spectrometer of claim 9, wherein said output module comprises a releasably engageable output module. 11. The spectrometer of claim 1, wherein said light source comprises a diode laser. 12. The spectrometer of claim 11, wherein said diode laser comprises a near-infrared (NIR) wavelength diode laser. 13. The spectrometer of claim 11, wherein said diode laser comprises an infrared (IR) wavelength diode laser. 14. The spectrometer of claim 13, wherein said detector comprises an InGaAs detector. 15. The spectrometer of claim 1, wherein said detector comprises an InGaAs detector. 16. An integrated Raman spectrometer for obtaining Raman spectrum information from a sample, the integrated Raman spectrometer comprising: a plate having a mounting surface; a light source module for providing an excitation radiation, the light source module mounted to said mounting surface of said plate; a detector module for detecting Raman scattered light mounted to said mounting surface of said plate; an optical system adapted to direct said excitation radiation toward the sample, receive Raman scattered light from the sample, and provide the Raman scattered light to said detector module, said optical system mounted to said mounting surface of said plate, and a collimated beam tube for transmitting said excitation radiation from said optical system toward the sample in the form of a collimated light signal. 17. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 16, wherein said plate comprises a base plate. 18. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 16, further comprising a control electronics for controlling an operation of the integrated Raman spectrometer. 19. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 18, wherein said control electronics is mounted on a single board that is mounted to said plate. 20. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 18, further comprising a power supply for powering said control electronics. 21. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 20, wherein said power supply is adapted to receive a battery to power said control electronics. 22. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 20, wherein said power supply is adapted to receive alternating current power. 23. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 16, wherein said optical system comprises an adjustable diffraction grating for dividing the Raman scattered light into spatial separated wavelengths and for directing said spatial separated wavelengths toward said detector module. 24. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 23, wherein said adjustable diffraction grating comprises a diffraction surface fixed to a rocker. 25. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 24, wherein said rocker is adjustable to target the spatial separated wavelengths vertically at said detector module. 26. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 16 further comprising an output port for communicating with an external device. 27. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 16, wherein said output port comprises an antenna for wirelessly communicating with an external device. 28. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 27, wherein said output port is adapted for wireless communication with an external device using at least one of a Bluetooth communication, an IEEE 802.11a communication, an IEEE 802.11b communication, an IEEE 802.11g communication, an infrared communication, and an IrDA communication. 29. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 27, wherein said output port comprises at least one of a parallel port, a serial port, a universal serial port, an IEEE 1394 port, a FireWire (.TM.) port, an Ethernet port, a modem port, and a cable modem port. 30. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 16, wherein said light source comprises a diode laser. 31. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 30, wherein said diode laser comprises a near-infrared (NIR) wavelength diode laser. 32. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 30, wherein said diode laser comprises an infrared (IR) wavelength diode laser. 33. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 32, wherein said detector comprises an InGaAs detector. 34. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 16, further comprising a protective container for protecting the portable spectrometer from a harmful environment. 35. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 34, wherein said protective container comprises a waterproof container for protecting the portable spectrometer underwater. 36. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 16, wherein said housing comprises a protective housing for protecting the portable spectrometer from a harmful environment. 37. The integrated Raman spectrometer of claim 36, wherein said housing comprises a waterproof housing for protecting the portable spectrometer underwater. 38. A portable spectrometer for obtaining Raman spectrum information from a sample, the portable spectrometer comprising: a housing comprising a handle and an activation switch; a light source mounted within said housing for providing an excitation radiation; a detector mounted within said housing for detecting Raman scattered light; and an optical system for directing said excitation radiation toward the sample external to said housing, receiving Raman scattered light from the sample, and providing the Raman scattered light to said detector, wherein said optical system comprises a collimated beam tube for transmitting said excitation radiation in the form of a collimated light signal. 39. The portable spectrometer of claim 38, wherein said optical system comprises an output module attached to said housing for directing said excitation radiation to the sample and for receiving the Raman scattered light from the sample. 40. The portable spectrometer of claim 39, wherein said output module is releasably attachable to said housing. 41. The portable spectrometer of claim 39, wherein said output module comprises a terminal end and an output focusing lens that focuses said excitation radiation at about said terminal end. 42. The portable spectrometer of claim 38, further comprising a power supply for powering said control electronics. 43. The portable spectrometer of claim 42, wherein said power supply is adapted to receive a battery to power said control electronics. 44. The portable spectrometer of claim 42, wherein said power supply is adapted to receive alternating current power. 45. The portable spectrometer of claim 38 further comprising an output port for communicating with an external device. 46. The portable spectrometer of claim 45, wherein said output port comprises an antenna for wirelessly communicating with an external device. 47. The portable spectrometer of claim 45, wherein said output port is adapted for wireless communication with an external device using at least one of a Bluetooth communication, an IEEE 802.11a communication, an IEEE 802.11b communication, an IEEE 802.11g communication, an infrared communication, and an IrDA communication. 48. The portable spectrometer of claim 45, wherein said output port comprises at least one of a parallel port, a serial port, a universal serial port, an IEEE 1394 port, a FireWire (.TM.) port, an Ethernet port, a modem port, and a cable modem port. 49. The portable spectrometer of claim 38, wherein said light source comprises a diode laser. 50. The portable spectrometer of claim 49, wherein said diode laser comprises a near-infrared (NIR) wavelength diode laser. 51. The portable spectrometer of claim 49, wherein said diode laser comprises an infrared (IR) wavelength diode laser. 52. The portable spectrometer of claim 51, wherein said detector comprises an InGaAs detector. 53. The portable spectrometer of claim 38, further comprising a protective container for protecting the portable spectrometer from a harmful environment. 54. The portable spectrometer of claim 53, wherein said protective container comprises a waterproof container for protecting the portable spectrometer underwater. 55. The portable spectrometer of claim 38, wherein said housing comprises a protective housing for protecting the portable spectrometer from a harmful environment. 56. The portable spectrometer of claim 55, wherein said housing comprises a waterproof housing for protecting the portable spectrometer underwater. 57. The spectrometer of claim 38, wherein said detector comprises an InGaAs detector. 58. A chemical reactor having a built-in Raman spectrometer for monitoring a chemical reaction, the chemical reactor comprising: a reaction chamber for providing a chemical reaction; and a Raman spectrometer built-in to the reactor for monitoring a chemical reaction in said reaction chamber, the Raman spectrometer comprising: a light source for providing an excitation radiation, a detector for detecting Raman scattered light, and an optical system for directing said excitation radiation toward said reaction chamber, receiving Raman scattered light from said reaction chamber, and providing the Raman scattered light to said detector, wherein said optical system comprises a collimated beam tube for transmitting said excitation radiation in the form of a collimated light signal. 59. The chemical reactor of claim 58, wherein said Raman spectrometer monitors an amount of a product formed in said reaction chamber. 60. The chemical reactor of claim 59, wherein the reactor indicates that a reaction is complete based upon said amount of a product formed in said reaction chamber. 61. The chemical reactor of claim 59, wherein the reactor indicates that the reaction is complete when said amount of a product formed in said reaction chamber substantially plateaus. 62. A method for receiving a Raman spectrum of a sample, the method comprising: providing a Raman spectrometer comprising: a light source for providing an excitation radiation, a detector for detecting Raman scattered light, and an optical system comprising a collimated beam tube, wherein the excitation radiation is directed on-axis to the sample via the collimated beam tube; receiving Raman scattered light from the sample, and providing the Raman scattered light to said detector via the collimated beam tube. 63. The method of claim 62, wherein the excitation radiation is provided to the sample via the collimated beam tube and an external optical system. 64. The method of claim 63, wherein the external optical system comprises at least one of a microscope, a telescope, and a camera lens. 65. The method of claim 63, wherein the Raman spectrometer is adapted to couple to a microscope to provide microscopic Raman spectroscopy analysis. 66. The method of claim 63, wherein the Raman spectrometer is adapted to couple to the external optical system to provide remote Raman spectroscopy analysis. 67. The method of claim 62, wherein Raman spectrometer comprises an integrated Raman spectrometer comprising a plate having a mounting surface, wherein the light source comprises a light source module mounted to the mounting surface of the plate and the detector comprises a detector module mounted to the mounting surface of the plate. 68. The method of claim 62, wherein the Raman spectrometer comprises a portable Raman spectrometer comprising a housing and a switch, wherein the light source and the detector are mounted within the housing. 69. The method of claim 62, further comprising providing a chemical reaction within a chemical reactor and monitoring the chemical reaction within the chemical reactor via the Raman spectrometer. 70. A spectrometer for obtaining Raman spectrum information from a sample, the spectrometer comprising: a light source for providing an excitation radiation; a detector for detecting Raman scattered light; an optical system for directing said excitation radiation toward the sample, receiving Raman scattered light from the sample, and providing the Raman scattered light to said detector, wherein said optical system comprises a collimated beam tube for transmitting said excitation radiation in the form of a collimated light signal on-axis to the sample via a lens. 