An imaging system includes an image receiving unit for receiving an input image, and a spatial light modulator. The spatial light modulator is interposed between the image receiving unit and an input image. The spatial light modulator is for selectively modulating the input image such that at least one portion of the input image may be blurred as it passes through the spatial light modulator toward the image receiving unit.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An imaging system for receiving images, said system comprising: an image receiving unit for receiving an input image; and a spatial light modulator interposed between said image receiving unit and an input image, said spatial light modulator including a first area for selectively refracting the input image only along a principle axis of refraction toward said image receiving unit, and a second area for selectively refracting the input image along the principle axis of refraction and along a second axis of refraction, said second axis of refraction being angularly disposed to said principle axis of refraction such that a first portion of the input image that passes through the first area of said spatial light modulator is not blurred, while a second portion of the input image that passes through the second area of said spatial light modulator is blurred. 2. An imaging system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said image receiving unit comprises an array of photodetector cells. 3. An imaging system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said spatial light modulator comprises an array of liquid crystal opto-electronic elements. 4. An imaging system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said system includes a plurality of spatial light modulators interposed between the input image and said image receiving unit. 5. An imaging system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said image receiving unit includes a holographic material. 6. An imaging system as claimed in clam 1, wherein said image receiving unit includes a robotic vision system. 7. An imaging system as claimed in clam 1, wherein said image receiving unit includes a visual monitoring system. 8. An imaging system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said imaging system further includes a control unit for varying the angular direction of said second axis of direction with respect to said principle axis of refraction. 9. An imaging system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said spatial light modulator comprises an array of birefringent elements for selectively effecting a blurring of the input image. 10. An imaging system as claimed in claim 9, wherein birefringent characteristics of each birefringent element are selectively controlled independent of other birefringent elements. 11. An imaging system as claimed in claim 1, wherein said spatial light modulator includes liquid crystal cell. 12. An imaging system as claimed in claim 11, wherein said liquid crystal cell is surrounded along its periphery by a plurality of electrodes. 13. An imaging system for receiving images, said system comprising: an image receiving unit for receiving an input image; and a spatial light modulator interposed between said image receiving unit and an input image, said spatial light modulator including: a first area for selectively refracting the input image only along a principle axis of refraction toward said image receiving unit, a second area for selectively refracting the input image along the principle axis of refraction and along a second axis of refraction, said second axis of refraction being angularly disposed to said first axis of refraction such that a first portion of the input image that passes through the first area of said spatial light modulator is not blurred, while a second portion of the input image that passes through the second area of said spatial light modulator is blurred, and a third area for selectively refracting the input image along the principle axis of refraction and along a third axis of refraction, said third axis of refraction being angularly disposed to said first axis of refraction such that a first portion of the input image that passes through the first area of said spatial light modulator is not blurred, while a third portion of the input image that passes through the third area of said spatial light modulator is blurred. 14. The imaging system as claimed in claim 13, wherein said first axis of refraction is substantially normal to the imaging receiving unit. 15. An imaging system for receiving images, said system comprising: an image receiving unit for receiving an input image; and a spatial light modulator interposed between said image receiving unit and an input image, said spatial light modulator including: a first area for selectively refracting the input image only along a principle axis of refraction toward said image receiving unit at a first angle with respect to said imaging unit, a second area for selectively refracting the input image along the principle axis of refraction and along a second axis of refraction at a second angle with respect to said imaging unit such that a first portion of the input image that passes through the first area of said spatial light modulator is not blurred, while a second portion of the input image that passes through the second area of said spatial light modulator is blurred, and a third area for selectively refracting the input image along the principle axis of refraction and along a third axis of refraction at a third angle with respect to said imaging unit such that a first portion of the input image that passes through the first area of said spatial light modulator is not blurred, while a third portion of the input image that passes through the third area of said spatial light modulator is blurred, said second angle being between said first angle and said third angle. 