A robot for marking an encoded surface is provided. The encoded surface has coded data identifying a plurality of locations thereon. The robot has an image sensor for sensing the coded data, and a processor for generating indicating data using the coded data sensed by the image sensor. The indicating data has data regarding a position of the robot on the encoded surface. The robot uses a communication means to transmit the indicating data to a computer system and receiving instructions from the computer system. A steerable drive system moves the robot over the encoded surface in response to movement instructions received from the computer system and a marking device selectively marks the encoded surface in response to marking instructions received from the computer system.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robot for marking an encoded surface, the encoded surface having coded data identifying a plurality of locations thereon, the robot comprising: an image sensor for sensing the coded data; a processor for generating indicating data using the coded data sensed by the image sensor, said indicating data comprising data regarding a position of the robot on the encoded surface; communication means for transmitting the indicating data to a computer system and receiving instructions from the computer system; a steerable drive system for moving the robot over the encoded surface in response to movement instructions received from the computer system; and a marking device for selectively marking the encoded surface in response to marking instructions received from the computer system. 2. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the marking device is at least one pen, or the like, attached to or held by the robot. 3. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the marking device is at least one printhead attached to or held by the robot. 4. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the marking device is selectively moveable into and out of a marking configuration. 5. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a characteristic of the marking device is determined by the robot decoding a barcode on the marking device. 6. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a characteristic of the marking device is determined by the robot reading a value from a solid-state memory associated with the marking device. 7. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a characteristic of the marking device is determined by a user activating a hyperlink on the encoded surface using the robot. 8. The robot as claimed in claim 7, wherein said characteristic of the marking device is the color of the ink in the marking device. 9. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot is operable in a raster mode or a vector mode. 10. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot is remotely controllable by a user. 11. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the drive system comprises electronically driven wheels. 12. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein a computer application runs on said computer system, said computer application controlling the marking device and/or the drive system in response to the indicating data received by the computer system. 13. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the robot has a unique robot identifier which for distinguishing the robot from other robots. 14. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the indicating data is transmitted to the computer system by a wireless signal. 15. The robot as claimed in claim 14, wherein the computer system is configured for receiving the indicating data via a relay device in wireless communication with the robot. 16. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the encoded surface is a netpage. 17. The robot as claimed in claim 1, wherein the coded data also uniquely identifies the encoded surface. 