The present invention discloses a system and method for confining a robot to a particular space. The system includes a portable barrier signal transmitter that produces a barrier signal primarily along an axis, and a mobile robot capable of avoiding the barrier signal upon detection of the barrier signal. In the preferred embodiment the barrier signal is emitted in an infrared frequency and the robot includes an omni-directional signal detector. Upon detection of the signal, the robot turns in a direction selected by a barrier avoidance algorithm until the barrier signal is no longer detected.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robot, comprising: a motor drive that independently drives each of at least two wheels of the robot; a light beam receiver that receives light substantially omnidirectional and detects when the robot encounters a confinement light beam directed along a substantially horizontal axis; and a processor, connected to the light beam receiver and to the motor drive, that recognizes the confinement light beam, and upon detection of the confinement light beam, controls the motor drive to turn the robot until the confinement light beam is no longer detected; wherein the processor controls the motor drive to turn the robot in a direction decided according to gradient levels of the confinement light at different orientations of the robot. 2. The robot of claim 1 wherein the processor continues to control the motor drive to turn the robot after the confinement light beam is no longer detected, by an amount that generally prevents the robot from re-encountering the confinement light beam immediately after the confinement light beam is no longer detected. 3. The robot of claim 1 configured to conduct obstacle following operations keeping obstacles to one side of the robot, and wherein the processor controls the motor drive to turn the robot in a direction away from the one side to which obstacles are kept during obstacle following operations. 4. The robot of claim 1 wherein the processor controls the motor drive to turn the robot toward a direction from which the confinement light beam is detected with a smallest gradient level. 5. The robot of claim 1 wherein the light beam receiver includes an omnidirectional lens having an axis normal to the plane to movement of the robot and that accepts rays substantially in a plane at the heights of the lens but rejects rays substantially above below the plane at the height of the lens. 6. The robot of claim 1 wherein the light beam receiver includes a plurality of receivers distributed about the perimeter of the robot. 7. A robot, comprising: a motor drive that independently drives each of at least two wheels of the robot; a light beam receiver that receives light substantially omnidirectionally and detects when the robot encounters an omnidirectional diffuse light light region directed along a horizontal plane substantially at the height of the light beam receiver; and a processor, connected to the light beam receiver and to the motor drive, that recognizes the omnidirectional diffuse light region, and upon detection of the omnidirectional diffuse light region controls the motor drive to turn the robot until the omnidirectional diffuse light region is no longer detected; wherein the light beam receiver is configured to detect a confinement light beam having a most narrow region closet to a source of the omnidirectional diffuse light region, such that the processor controls the motor drive to turn the robot to avoid crossing the most narrow region of the confinement light beam. 8. The robot of claim 7 wherein the processor controls the motor drive to turn the robot until the omnidirectional diffuse light region is no longer detected, that the detection of the omnidirectional diffuse light region prevents the robot from coming into direct contact with a source of the omnidirectional diffuse light region. 9. The robot of claim 7 wherein the confinement light beam and the omnidirectional diffuse light region detected by the light beam receiver have a single active emitter and modulation frequency. 10. The robot of claim 7 wherein beyond the omnidirectional diffuse light region, the confinement light beam detected by the light beam receiver is at least as wide as a distance from the center of the motor drive to the light beam receiver. 11. The robot of claim 7 wherein the light beam receiver includes an omnidirectional lens having an axis normal to the plane of movement of the robot and that accepts rays substantially in a plane at the height of the lens but rejects rays substantially above or substantially below the plane at the height of the lens. 12. The robot of claim 7 wherein the light beam receiver includes a plurality of receivers distributed about the perimeter of the robot. 13. A robot confinement emitter, comprising: at least one confinement light beam emitter that emits a modulated directed light beam; and at least one omnidirectional diffuse light region emitter that emits a modulated diffuse light region, each of the at least one confinement light beam and the at least one onimdirectional diffuse light region overlapping in a plane parallel to ground level such that a light beam receiver borne by a robot may detect either one or both of the at least one confinement light beam and the at least one omnidirectional diffuse light region; wherein the robot confinement emitter is responsive to a control system used to turn on and turn off one or more robot confinement emitters in order to allow automatic cleaning of multiple rooms in a controlled manner. 14. The robot confinement emitter of claim 13 wherein the modulated directed light beam is a modulated signal in an infrared frequency. 15. The robot confinement emitter of claim 13 wherein the robot confinement emitter is responsive to a control system that communicates directly with one or more robot confinement emitters allowing a cycling of work spaces. 16. The robot confinement emitter of claim 13 wherein the robot confinement emitter is responsive to a robot that sends a signal to the robot confinement emitter to turn the robot confinement emitter on. 17. A robot system, comprising: a "home base" transmitter that emits at least one light along a substantially horizontal axis, a robot, including: a substantially circular shell and two wheels mounted on opposite sides of a center line, each of the wheels being independently driven to allow the robot to turn and to turn substantially in place, and a light beam receiver that receives light from different directions and detects when the robot encounters a light beam directed along a substantially horizontal axis, and a processor that controls the robot to use a detection of the at least one light beam by the light beam receiver to return to the "home base" transmitter when the voltage of the robot's battery drops below a predetermined level, the light beam receiver and the at least one light beam being substantially at or below the height of the robot, the height of the robot being minimized to allow the robot to pass under furniture. 18. The robot system of claim 17 wherein the light beam receiver comprises a plurality of side-mounted sensors, each of the sensors being oriented in a manner to have a field of view corresponding to one of the different directions. 19. The robot system of claim 18 wherein the plurality of side-mounted sensors includes a sensor facing directly rearward and responsive to a light beam that originates behind the robot. 20. The robot system of claim 19 wherein the plurality of side-mounted sensors includes at least one sensor facing toward the side and toward the rear of the robot, responsive to a light beam that originates to the side and rear of the robot. 21. The robot system of claim 20 wherein the plurality of side-mound sensor includes includes at least one sensor facing toward the side and toward the front of the robot, responsive to a light beam that originates to the side and front of the robot. 22. The robot system of claim 21 wherein the plurality of side-mounted sensors includeds a sensor facing directly forward and responsive to the a light beam that originates in front of the robot. 23. The robot system of claim 22 wherein the home base transmitter includes a substantially omni-directional lens, having an axis normal to the plane of movement of the robot, that transmits rays substantially in a plane at the height of the lens but not substantially above or substantially below the plane at the height of the lens. 24. A robot, comprising: a motor drive that independently drives each of at least two wheels of the robot; a light beam receiver that receives light substantially omnidirectionally and detects when the robot encounters a confinement light beam directed along a substantially horizontal axis, the light beam receiver including an omnidirectional lens having an axis formal to the plane of movement of the robot and that accepts rays substantially in a plane at the height of the lens but rejects rays substantially above or substantially below the plane at the height of the lens; and a processor, connected to the height beam receiver and to the motor drive, that recognizes the confinement light beam, and upon detection of the confinement light beam, controls the motor drive to turn the robot until the confinement light beam is no longer detected. 25. The robot of claim 24 wherein the processor continues to control the motor drive to turn the robot after the confinement light beam is no longer detected, by an amount that generally prevents the robot from re-encountering the confinement light beam immediately after the confinement light beam is no longer detected. 26. The robot of claim 24 configured to conduct obstacle following operations keeping obstacles to one side of the robot, and wherein the processor controls the motor drive to turn the robot in a direction away from the one side to which obstacles are kept during obstacle following operations. 27. The robot of claim 24 wherein the processor controls the motor drive to turn the robot in a randomly determined direction. 28. The robot of claim 24 wherein the processor controls the motor drive to turn the robot successively in a same direction, then in a randomly determined direction. 29. The robot of claim 24 wherein the processor controls the motor drive to turn the robot in place until the confinement light beam is no longer detected. 30. The robot of claim 24 wherein the light beam receiver includes a plurality of receivers distributed about the perimeter of the robot. 31. A robot, comprising: a motor drive that independtly drives each of at least two wheels of the robot; a light beam receiver that receives light substantially omnidirectionally and detects when the robot encounters an omnidirectional diffuse light region directed along a horizontal plane substantially at the height of the light beam receiver, the light beam receiver including an omnidirectional lens having an axis normal to the plane of movement of the robot and that accepts rays substantially in a plane at the height of the lens but rejects rays substantially above or substantially below the plane at the height of the lens; and a processor, connected to the light beam receiver and to the motor drive, that recognizes the omnidirectional diffuse light region, and upon detection of the omnidirectional diffuse light region controls the motor drive to turn the robot until the omnidirectional diffuse light region is no longer detected. 32. The robot of claim 31 wherein the processor controls the motor drive to turn the robot until the omnidirectional diffuse light region is no longer detected, such that the detection of the omnidirectional diffuse light region prevents the robot from coming into direct contact with a source of the omnidirectional diffuse light region. 33. The robot of claim 31 wherein the light beam receiver includes a plurality of receivers distributed about the perimeter of the robot. 34. A robot confinement emitter, comprising: at least on confinement light beam emitter that emits a modulated directed light beam; and at least one omnidirectional diffuse light region emitter that emits a modulated diffuse light region, each of the at least one confinement light beam and the at least one omnidirectional diffuse light region overlapping in a plane parallel to ground level such that a light beam receiver borne by a robot may detect either one or both of the at least one confinement light beam and the at least one omnidirectional diffuse light region; wherein the robot confinement emitter is responsive to a control system that communicates directly with one or more robot confinement emitters allowing a cycling of work spaces. 35. The robot confinement emitter of claim 34 wherein the modulated directed light beam is a modulated signal in an infrared frequency. 36. The robot confinement emitter of claim 34 wherein the robot confinement emitter is responsive to a robot that sends a signal to the robot confinement emitter to turn the robot confinement emitter on. 37. A robot confinement emitter, comprising: at least one confinement light beam emitter that emits a modulated directed light beam; and at least one omnidirectional diffuse light region emitter that emits a modulated diffuse light region, each of the at least one confinement light beam and the at least one omnidirectional diffuse light region overlapping in a plane parallel to ground level such that a light beam receiver borne by a robot may detect either one or both of the at least one confinement light beam and the at least one omnidirectional diffuse light region; wherein the robot confinement emitter is responsive to a robot that sends a signal to the robot confinement emitter to turn the robot confinement emitter on. 38. The robot confinement emitter of claim 37 wherein the modulated directed light beam is a modulated signal in an infrared frequency. 