An apparatus and method for extracting energy from an internal combustion engine. The internal combustion engine includes a chamber having a primary piston and a secondary piston with a combustion portion of the chamber situated adjacently between the primary piston and secondary piston. The secondary piston includes a substantially lesser mass than that of the primary piston. The chamber includes at least one fluid port for supplying fuel to the combustion portion and an out-take port for releasing combustive exhaust. The chamber includes a controller for controlling the combustion therein at selected cycles of the primary piston. With this arrangement, the secondary piston is configured to draw a portion of energy from combustion controlled by the controller in the chamber. Such portion of energy is provided with a rapid response to an energy transferring portion interconnected to the secondary piston, which in turn, transfers and/or converts the energy for acting on a load or external application.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An internal combustion (IC) engine comprising: a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure to said chamber, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; a controller for controlling said combustion in said chamber; and a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber, said rapid response component situated adjacent said combustion portion of said chamber, said rapid response component configured to draw a portion of said energy from said combustion in said chamber, said chamber comprising a first compartment and a second compartment with a divider portion therebetween, said first compartment including said piston and said second compartment including said rapid response component, said divider portion defining an aperture therein extending between said first compartment and said second compartment. 2. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said wherein said rapid response component comprises a secondary piston disposed in said chamber, said secondary piston comprising an energy receiving portion and an energy transferring portion, said energy receiving portion configured to draw said portion of said energy from said combustion in said chamber. 3. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said fluid is compressed at least partially into said second compartment by said piston, wherein said controller comprises a spark ignition source configured to at least partially facilitate said combustion in said second compartment. 4. The IC engine of claim 2, wherein said energy transferring portion is configured to transfer said portion of said energy from said combustion to at least one form of energy selected from the group consisting of hydraulic energy, pneumatic energy, electric energy and mechanical energy. 5. The IC engine of claim 2, further comprising a secondary energy conversion system operatively coupled to said energy transferring portion of said secondary piston, said secondary energy conversion system being selected from the group consisting of a hydraulic system, a pneumatic system, an electric generator system and a mechanical system. 6. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said controller comprises a spark ignition source configured to at least partially facilitate said combustion in said chamber. 7. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said controller comprises a fuel controller for combining a fuel with an oxidizer to at least partially facilitate said combustion in said chamber. 8. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said controller includes structure for releasing a fuel into compressed oxidizer fluid to at least partially facilitate said combustion in said chamber. 9. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said chamber is configured to operate in combination with an engine selected from the group consisting of a spark ignition IC engine and a compression ignition IC engine. 10. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said rapid response component is configured to provide greater bandwidth than direct bandwidth supplied directly by the piston of said IC engine. 11. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said rapid response component is configured to draw said portion of said energy from said chamber during a time period from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to said piston reciprocating to a position at a median between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position. 12. The IC engine of claim 1, wherein said piston is configured to substantially continuously reciprocate in said chamber. 13. The IC engine of claim 12, wherein said controller is configured to initiate said combustion at selected cycles of one or more cycles, wherein said selected cycles are non-continuous compared to that of said piston substantially continuously reciprocating in said chamber. 14. A method for extracting energy from an IC engine, the method comprising: providing a chamber having a piston, at least one fluid port coupled to said chamber for supplying fluid thereto and an out-take port, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to provide a variable pressure to said chamber, said piston configured to reciprocate in said chamber between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position, each reciprocation of said piston defining a cycle, said piston and said fluid configured to at least partially facilitate combustion to provide energy from said combustion in a combustion portion of said chamber; providing a rapid response component, said chamber comprising a first compartment and a second compartment with a divider portion therebetween, said first compartment including said piston and said second compartment including said rapid response component, said divider portion defining an aperture therein extending between said first compartment and said second compartment; positioning said piston to be in fluid communication with said first compartment; positioning said rapid response component to be in fluid communication with said second compartment; and causing a combustion in said chamber and enabling said rapid response component to draw at least a portion of said energy from said combustion. 15. The method of claim 14, further comprising controlling said combustion in said chamber with a controller interconnected to said chamber. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein said controlling comprises controlling said controller to provide said combustion to said chamber at selected cycles of one or more cycles of said piston such that said selected cycles are non-continuous compared to that of said piston continuously reciprocating in said chamber. 