A printhead assembly is provided, comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a support member supporting the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and a casing in which the at least one printhead module is removably mounted. The support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits, and two fluid connectors are provided to each connect with a longitudinal end of the at least one printhead module, each of the fluid connectors being arranged to connect at least one fluid delivery hose from a fluid supply to the at least one channel at the corresponding longitudinal end of the at least one printhead module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least two printhead modules each comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, and a support member supporting the at least two printhead integrated circuits, each support member having at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits; and a casing in which the at least two printhead modules are removably mounted, wherein two fluid connectors are provided to each connect with a longitudinal end of a respective printhead module and to connect at least one fluid delivery hose from a fluid supply to the respective printhead modules, and complementary female and male end portions of the support members are configured to interconnect the support member channels of adjacent printhead modules and to connect with the respective fluid connectors so as to communicate the printing fluid from the fluid delivery hoses to the printhead integrated circuits supported by all of the printhead modules. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: a first one of the two fluid connectors is arranged to interconnect with the female end portion; and a second one of the two fluid connectors is arranged to interconnect with the male end portion. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein a sealing adhesive is provided at the interfaces of the interconnected fluid connectors and printhead module. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 3, wherein the sealing adhesive is an epoxy. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 2, wherein the fluid connectors have at least one tubular portion for connecting with the associated at least one fluid delivery hose and each tubular portion is arranged to be in fluid connection with the at least one channel of the printhead module. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein each tubular portion is arranged so as to form a linear fluid connection with the at least one first channel. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 6, wherein the at least one tubular portion is arranged so as to form a linear fluid connection with the at least one first channel. 8. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: each printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the respective at least two printhead integrated circuits, support member, associated fluid distribution members, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; and each support member has a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid from the respective channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 