A carrier, such as an autonomous surface treatment device, e.g., a robotic vacuum cleaner, has motive units, such as wheels, for transporting the carrier over a field of operation. The state of the carrier, which can be its position on the field of operation, is determined based, at least in part, on the actual track width of the motive units which will change depending on the carrier's driving mode. For example, when the carrier is operating in a driving mode where it is turning, the actual track width of the motive units will be different from the actual track width of those units when the carrier is proceeding straight ahead. A determination is made of the driving mode in which the carrier is operating at the time its state is to be determined, and the actual track width of the motive units that corresponds to that driving mode is employed in determining the state of the carrier.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of determining the state of a carrier on a field of operation, the carrier having means comprising two oppositely disposed motive units for transporting it over the field of operation, the method comprising the steps of: employing an actual track width of the motive units as a determinant, at least in part, of the state of the carrier, relating one or more potential driving modes for the carrier to respective actual track widths that result when the carrier operates in those modes, determining the driving mode in which the carrier is operating at the time its state is to be determined, applying the actual track width that corresponds to that driving mode in determining the state of the carrier, and using the state of the carrier for controlling an operation of the carrier. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the motive units comprise wheels that are arranged to be driven independently of one another. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by the overlap of a range of rotational velocities for each wheel. 4. The method of claim 2 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by a range of rotational velocities for only one of the wheels. 5. The method of claim 2 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by a single ratio between the rotational velocities of the two wheels. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by a range of ratios between the rotational velocities of the two wheels. 7. The method of claim 2 wherein five driving modes are employed, a first mode being defined by both wheels having equal rotational velocities in a direction tending to move the carrier in a forward direction, second and third modes being defined, respectively, by the rotation of one wheel in one direction or the other and the rotation of the other wheel in the opposite direction at the same rotational velocities, and a fourth and fifth modes being defined, respectively, by the rotation at one rotational velocity of one or the other of the wheels in a direction tending to move the carrier forward either alone or together with the rotation in the same direction at a lower rotational velocity of the other of the wheels. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the state of the carrier to be determined is the position of the carrier on the field of operation. 9. The method of claim 8 wherein the carrier is an autonomous vacuum cleaner. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the motive units comprise wheels that are arranged to be driving independently of one another. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by the overlap of a range of rotational velocities for each wheel. 12. The method of claim 10 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by a range of rotational velocities for only one of the wheels. 13. The method of claim 10 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by a single ratio between the rotational velocities of the two wheels. 14. The method of claim 10 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by a range of ratios between the rotational velocities of the two wheels. 15. The method of claim 10 wherein five driving modes are employed, a first mode being defined by both wheels having equal rotational velocities in a direction tending to move the carrier in a forward direction, second and third modes being defined, respectively, by the rotation of one wheel in one direction or the other and the rotation of the other wheel in the opposite direction at the same rotational velocities, and a fourth and fifth modes being defined, respectively, by the rotation at one rotational velocity of one or the other of the wheels in a direction tending to move the carrier forward either alone or together with the rotation in the same direction at a lower rotational velocity of the other of the wheels. 16. The method of claim 2 wherein the procedure of relating potential driving modes to actual track widths that result when the carrier operates in those modes includes the steps of aligning the carrier in an initial known direction, driving the carrier in accordance with a driving mode, determining the angle through which the carrier has turned while being driven in that driving mode, determining the distance each of the wheels has traveled while the carrier turned through that angle, and calculating the actual track width for that driving mode based on the distance and angle determinations. 17. The method of claim 16 wherein said calculating step comprises calculating an approximate angle through which it is estimated the carrier has turned based on the distance determinations for the wheels and an assumed track width, calculating the difference between the approximate angle and the determined angle, and calculating the actual track width as a correction to the assumed track width based on that difference. 18. The method of claim 16 wherein the state of the carrier to be determined is the position of the carrier on the field. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the carrier is an autonomous vacuum cleaner. 20. The method of claim 19 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by the overlap of a range of rotational velocities for each wheel. 21. The method of claim 19 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by a range of rotational velocities for only one of the wheels. 22. The method of claim 19 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by a single ratio between the rotational velocities of the two wheels. 23. The method of claim 19 wherein a driving mode employed is defined by a range of ratios between the rotational velocities of the two wheels. 24. The method of claim 1, wherein the operation of the carrier includes the operation of at least one of the motive units. 25. A carrier having means comprising two oppositely disposed motive units for transporting the carrier over a field of operation, the carrier having the capability of operating in one or more driving modes, means for determining the driving mode of the carrier, and means for calculating the position of the carrier on the field of operation based on an actual track width of the motive units that corresponds to the driving mode that has been determined and the respective distances the motive units have moved. 26. The carrier of claim 25 wherein the carrier comprises an autonomous vacuum cleaner. 27. The carrier of claim 25 wherein the motive units comprise wheels that are arranged to be driven independently of one another. 28. The carrier of claim 27 wherein the carrier comprises an autonomous vacuum cleaner. 29. The carrier of claim 25 and including means for aligning the carrier in a known direction, means for determining the angle through which the carrier turns when operating in a driving mode, and means for calculating an actual track width associated with that driving mode based on the angle through which the carrier turns and the respective distances the motive units move when the carrier moves through that angle. 30. The carrier of claim 29 wherein the carrier comprises an autonomous vacuum cleaner. 31. The carrier of claim 29 wherein the motive means comprises wheels that are arranged to be driven independently of one another. 32. The carrier of claim 31 wherein the carrier comprises an autonomous vacuum cleaner. 33. A method of transporting a carrier on a field of operation, the carrier having means comprising two oppositely disposed motive units for transporting it over the field of operation, the method comprising the steps of: employing an actual track width of the motive units as a determinant, at least in part, of the state of the carrier, relating one or more potential driving modes for the carrier to respective actual track widths that result when the carrier operates in those modes, determining the driving mode in which the carrier is operating at the time its state is to be determined, applying the actual track width that corresponds to that driving mode in determining the state of the carrier, and using the state of the carrier for controlling an operation of the carrier. 34. The method of claim 33, wherein the operation of the carrier includes the operation of at least one of the motive units. 