A method and system is provided for detecting, commanding and controlling diverse home devices currently connected to a home network. An interface is provided for accessing the home devices that are currently connected to a home network. According to the method, a device link file is generated, wherein the device link file identifies home devices that are currently connected to the home network. A device link page is created, wherein the device link page contains a device button that is associated with each home device that is identified in the device link file. A hyper-text link is associated with each device button, wherein the hyper-text link provides a link to an HTML page that is contained on the home device that is associated with the device button, and the device link page is displayed on a browser based home device.
Claims What is claimed is 1. A method for performing a service on a home network having a plurality of home devices connected thereto, the method comprising the steps of: connecting a client device to the home network wherein the client device is capable of displaying a user interface; executing a software agent on the client device, wherein executing the software agent causes a user interface to be displayed on the client device, which displays a top list of one or more devices that are connected to the network for individually selecting each of said devices to cooperate with one or more other devices to provide the service; selecting a first home device from the user interface for performing the service in cooperation with a second device; selecting a second home device from the user interface for performing the service in cooperation with the first device; sending control and command data from the client device through the network to cause the first and second home devices to communicate with each other to perform the service. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of executing a software agent comprises executing a session manager program for acting on behalf of the user and for assisting the user to cause the first and second home devices to communicate with each other to perform the service. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the client device includes a generator that generating a human graphical user interface (GUI), and the step of executing the session manager on the client device includes the step of generating and displaying on the client device a graphics user interface object page containing device buttons associated with the first home device and the second home device. 4. The method of claim 2, wherein the client device includes a browser for generating a human graphical user interface (GUI). 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the graphics user interface is coded in HTML, wherein the HTML coded graphics user interface object includes a page containing device buttons associated with the first home device and the second home device. 6. The method of claim 2 wherein: the first home device includes a control application that handles communication between the first home device and the session manager; the second home device includes a control application that handles communication between the second home device and the session manager; the method further including the steps of utilizing the control applications for communicating between the two selected devices, and the session manager coordinating the communication between the selected devices to establish configurations therebetween to perform a requested service. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the step of selecting the first home device includes the step of selecting at least one information sink-like home device; and the step of selecting the second home device includes the step of selecting an information source-like home device. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein: the step of selecting the first home device includes the step of reading a first home device capabilities file, wherein the first home device capabilities file identifies the capabilities of the first home device; and the step of selecting the second home device includes the step of comparing the content of the capabilities file of the first home device with that of one or more devices to find a second device capable of cooperating with the first home device to perform the service. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein: the step of selecting the first home device includes the step of, upon user selection of the first home device, determining the capabilities of the first home device; the step of selecting the second home device further includes the steps of matching capabilities of the first home device with that of one or more other devices to determine a second device, capable of cooperating with the first home device to perform the service. 10. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: upon selection of the two home devices to perform a particular service, then selecting certain device options for each of the selected home devices to perform that particular service. 11. A method for performing a service on a home network having a plurality of home devices connected thereto, the method comprising the steps of: connecting a client device to the home network wherein the device is capable of displaying a user interface; executing a software agent on the client device, wherein executing the software agent causes a user interface to be displayed on the client device, which displays a top list of devices that are connected to the network for individually selecting each of said devices; selecting a first home device from the user interface being displayed on the device, wherein the first home device is connected to the home network; selecting a second home device from the user interface being displayed on the device, wherein the second home device is connected to the home network; sending control and command data from the client device to the first and second home devices to cause the first and second home device to communicate with each other to perform the service; wherein: the step of selecting the first home device further includes the step of reading a first home device capabilities file, wherein the first home device capabilities file identifies the capabilities of the first home device; the step of selecting the second home device further includes the steps of: reading capabilities files of one or more other devices in the network and comparing capabilities of the first home device with that of said one or more other devices to determine devices capable of cooperating with the first home device to perform a service. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the step of selecting the second home device further includes the steps of: selecting the second home device from devices determined to be capable of cooperating with the first home device to perform a service. 13. The method of claim 12 wherein the step of determining devices capable of cooperating with the first home device to perform a service, further includes the steps of matching contents of capabilities files of the first home device and said one or more other devices. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the step of selecting the second home device further includes the steps of: displaying a listing of said second devices determined to be capable of cooperating with the first home device to perform a service, on said user interface; and receiving user selection of one said devises on the listing, as the second home device. 15. A method for performing a service on a home network having a plurality of home devices connected thereto, the method comprising the steps of: connecting a client device to the home network wherein the device is capable of displaying a user interface; executing a software agent on the client device, wherein executing the software agent causes a user interface to be displayed on the client device, which displays a top list of devices that are connected to the network for individually selecting each of said devices; selecting a first home device from the user interface being displayed on the device, wherein the first home device is connected to the home network; selecting a second home device from the user interface being displayed on the device, wherein the second home device is connected to the home network; sending control and command data from the client device to the first and second home devices to cause the first and second home device to communicate with each other to perform the service; wherein: selecting the first home device further includes the steps of selecting a first home device from said top list; selecting the second home device further includes the steps of: determining one or more devices on the list capable of cooperating with the first home device to perform a service, updating said top list to only allow selection of said one or more devices, and receiving user selection of a device from the updated list as the second home device. 