An endoscope is provided which comprises an elongated body adapted for insertion into a body lumen, and a plurality of electrically controlled actuators associated with the body which are controllable to impart an orientation to the body that is complimentary to the natural orientation of the lumen into which the endoscope is inserted.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An EAP actuator assembly comprising a first plurality of electroactive polymer actuators disposed upon a first flexible sheet and a second plurality of electroactive polymer actuators disposed upon a second flexible sheet, wherein said first and second flexible sheets are fixed together, wherein the first and second flexible sheets are in the form of a tube, and wherein the first plurality of said electroactive polymer actuators disposed upon said first flexible sheet is oriented in a different direction from the second plurality of said electroactive polymer actuators disposed upon said second flexible sheet. 2. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 1, wherein said electroactive polymer actuators comprise an electroactive polymer selected from the group consisting of polyaniline, polypyrrole, and polyacetylene. 3. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 1, wherein each of said electroactive polymer actuators is connected to a controlling device by way of interconnection lines that are printed on said first and second flexible sheets. 4. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 1, wherein the first and second flexible sheets are positioned around a tubular structural member. 5. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 4, wherein said tubular structural member further comprises a plurality of tubular structural elements. 6. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 5, wherein said structural elements comprise a series of short tubes. 7. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 5, wherein said structural elements are disposed on one or more flexible sheets that are in the form of a tube. 8. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 4, further comprising a plurality of sensors that are adapted to provide feedback regarding the orientation of the tubular structural member. 9. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 8, wherein said sensors are strain gauges. 10. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 8, wherein said sensors are disposed upon one or more flexible sheets that are in the form of a tube. 11. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 8, wherein said sensors are disposed on said first and second flexible sheets along with said electroactive polymer actuators. 12. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 4, wherein the electroactive polymer actuators on said first flexible sheet are aligned with the longitudinal axis of said tubular structural member, and wherein the electroactive polymer actuators on said second flexible sheet range from about 45 to about 90 degrees out of alignment with the longitudinal axis of said tubular structural member. 13. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 1, wherein said electroactive polymer actuators are disposed on inner surfaces of said tubes. 14. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 1, wherein each of said electroactive polymer actuators is connected to a controlling device by way of an individual cable. 15. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 1, wherein each of said electroactive polymer actuators is connected to a controlling device by way a multiplexed cable. 16. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 1, wherein said first and second flexible sheets are spot welded to one another. 17. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 1, wherein said first and second flexible sheets are laminated to one another. 18. The EAP actuator assembly of claim 1, wherein the electroactive polymer actuators on said first flexible sheet are aligned with the longitudinal axis of the tube, and wherein the electroactive polymer actuators on said second flexible sheet range from about 45 to about 90 degrees out of alignment with the longitudinal axis of the tube. 