A robotic tool coupling system includes a first connecting unit including a piston movable along a longitudinal axis. The piston includes a multifaceted contact surface comprising a tapered locking surface; an initial actuating surface having an angle with respect to the axis not greater than the angle of the tapered locking surface; and a failsafe surface interposed between the tapered locking surface and the initial actuating surface. The system includes a second connecting unit having a plurality of rolling members disposed in a retention chamber including at least one angled surface operative to lock the first and second units together when the rolling members are forced against the angled surfaces by the tapered locking surface. The piston contact surface may additionally include a step surface, generally normal to the longitudinal axis, and a retention surface generally parallel to the axis.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic tool coupling piston moveable along a longitudinal axis, comprising: a tapered locking surface; an initial actuating surface having an angle with respect to said axis not greater than the angle of said tapered locking surface; and a failsafe surface interposed between said tapered locking surface and said initial actuating surface. 2. The piston of claim 1 wherein said failsafe surface is generally parallel to said axis. 3. The piston of claim 1 wherein said initial actuating surface is generally parallel to said axis. 4. The piston of claim 1 wherein said tapered locking surface increases outwardly in an axial direction away from said failsafe surface. 5. The piston of claim 1 further comprising a step surface. 6. The piston of claim 5 wherein said step surface abuts said initial actuating surface. 7. The piston of claim 6 wherein said step surface extends generally normal to said axis. 8. The piston of claim 7 wherein said initial actuating surface is parallel to said axis, and wherein said step surface and said initial actuating surface form a generally 90-degree edge. 9. The piston of claim 8 wherein said edge is chamfered. 10. The piston of claim 8 wherein said edge is rounded. 11. The piston of claim 5 further comprising a retention surface. 12. The piston of claim 11 wherein said retention surface abuts said step surface. 13. The piston of claim 12 wherein said step surface extends outwardly from said retention surface to said initial actuating surface. 14. The piston of claim 11 wherein said retention surface is generally parallel to said axis. 15. A robotic tool connecting system, comprising: a first robotic tool connecting unit, having a plurality of rolling members disposed in a retention chamber, and including a piston selectively movable along a longitudinal axis, said piston including a multifaceted contact surface comprising: i) a tapered locking surface disposal at an angle with respect to said axis; ii) an initial actuating surface having an angle with respect to said axis not greater than the angle of said tapered locking surface; and iii) a failsafe surface interposed between said tapered locking surface and said initial actuating surface; and a second robotic tool connecting unit including at least one angled surface operative to lock said first and second units together when said rolling members are forced against said angled surface by said tapered locking surface. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein said rolling members are disposed generally circumferentially around said axis. 17. The system of claim 16 wherein said rolling members are operative to roll in a generally radial direction. 18. The system of claim 16 wherein said rolling members comprise balls. 19. The system of claim 16 wherein said rolling members comprise cylinders. 20. The system of claim 15 wherein said failsafe surface is generally parallel to said axis. 21. The system of claim 20 wherein no component of force exerted by said rolling members on said failsafe surface is operative to retract said piston from said second robotic tool connecting unit. 22. The system of claim 15 wherein said initial actuating surface is parallel to said axis. 23. The system of claim 15 wherein said multifaceted contact surface further comprises a step surface extending generally normal to said axis and abutting said initial actuating surface. 24. The system of claim 23 wherein said initial actuating surface is parallel to said axis, and wherein said step surface and said initial actuating surface form a generally 90-degree edge. 25. The system of claim 23 further comprising a retention surface abutting said step surface inwardly of said initial actuating surface, said retention surface operative to retain said rolling members within said retention chamber. 26. The system of claim 25 wherein said retention surface is generally parallel to said axis. 27. A robotic tool coupler comprising: a first connecting unit; a second connecting unit; a piston associated with the first connecting unit and adapted to engage at least one locking member associated with the first connecting unit and urge the locking member into a locked position against an angled surface associated with the second connecting unit, resulting in the first connecting unit being coupled to the second connecting unit; the piston movable back and forth along an axis between an unlocked position and a locked position and including an outer surface, and wherein at least portions of the outer surface contact and engage the locking member as the piston moves from the unlocked position to the locked position; wherein the outer surface of the piston includes at least three distinct surface areas including a step surface, a tapered locking surface spaced from the step surface and operative to engage said locking member when the piston assumes the locked position and maintain the locking member in the locked position, and a contact surface disposed between the step surface and the tapered locking surface and operative to contact the locking member prior to the tapered locking surface contacting the locking the member as the piston moves from the unlocked position to the locked position; and wherein the intermediate contact surface is disposed at an angle equal to or less than the angle of the tapered locking surface wherein the angles are measured relative to the axis of the piston. 28. The robotic tool coupler of claim 27 wherein the angle of the tapered locking surface, relative to the axis of the piston, ranges from approximately 5.degree. to approximately 30.degree. and the angle of the contact surface, relative to the axis of the piston, ranges from approximately 5.degree. to approximately 30.degree.. 29. The robotic tool coupler of claim 27 wherein the intermediate contact surface is disposed at an angle of approximately 0.degree. with respect to the axis of the piston and wherein the tapered locking surface is disposed at an angle of at least 5.degree. with respect to the axis of the piston. 30. The robotic tool coupler of claim 27 wherein the step surface is formed on an end portion of the piston. 31. The robotic tool coupler of claim 27 wherein the step surface includes a surface that extends inwardly towards the axis of the piston and at an angle generally perpendicular to the arm of the piston. 32. The robotic tool coupler of claim 31 wherein the intermediate contact surface connects with the step surface and extends therefrom towards the tapered locking surface. 33. The robotic tool coupler of claim 27 wherein the outer surface of the piston includes a failsafe surface disposed between the intermediate contact surface and the tapered locking surface. 