A substrate is transferred from an environment at about vacuum into a load lock through a first door. The substrate is then sealed within the load lock. The pressure within the load lock is raised to a high pressure above vacuum. A second door coupling the load lock to a high-pressure processing chamber is then opened and the substrate moved from the load lock into the high-pressure chamber. The substrate is then sealed within the high-pressure chamber. High-pressure processing, such as high pressure cleaning or high pressure deposition, is then performed on the substrate within the high-pressure chamber. Subsequently, the second door is opened and the substrate transferred into the load lock. The substrate is then sealed within the load lock. The pressure within the load lock is lowered to about vacuum and the first door opened. The substrate is then removed from the load lock into the environment.
Claims What we claim is: 1. A method for processing a semiconductor substrate with a dense phase fluid, comprising; transferring a semiconductor substrate from an environment at about vacuum into a load lock through a first door; sealing said substrate within said load lock; raising pressure within said load lock to a pressure of from about 60 to about 3000 psi above vacuum; opening a second door coupling said load lock to a first processing chamber; moving said substrate from said load lock into said first processing chamber; sealing said substrate within said first processing chamber; and processing said substrate by contacting said substrate with a dense phase fluid within said first processing chamber. 2. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 1, wherein said processing is cleaning. 3. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 1, wherein said substrate had been subject to a deposition process prior to said processing. 4. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 1, further comprising; opening said second door; transferring said substrate into said load lock at the pressure of said first processing chamber; sealing said substrate within said load lock; lowering the pressure within said load lock to about vacuum; opening said first door; and removing said substrate from said load lock. 5. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 1, further comprising before said transferring; loading said substrate from an environment at about atmospheric pressure into an additional load lock through a third door; sealing said additional load lock; reducing pressure in said additional load lock to about vacuum. 6. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 1, wherein said dense phase fluid is CO.sub.2, where said contacting is at a temperature of about 35 degrees C. 7. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 1, wherein said first processing chamber is at a pressure of between about 1070 psi to about 1800 psi at a temperature of about 35 degrees C. 8. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 1, wherein said processing comprises cleaning said substrate with liquid CO.sub.2, where said pressure within said first processing chamber is between about 100 psi to about 500 psi at a temperature of about 35 degrees C. 9. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 4, further comprising: removing said substrate from said load lock into a second processing chamber at vacuum; sealing said substrate within said second processing chamber; and processing said substrate within said second processing chamber. 10. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 5, further comprising after said reducing: transferring said substrate from said additional load lock into a second processing chamber at vacuum; sealing said substrate within said second processing chamber; and processing said substrate within said second processing chamber. 11. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 5, further comprising after said reducing: transferring said substrate from said additional load lock into a transfer chamber at vacuum; transferring said substrate from said transfer chamber into a second processing chamber; sealing said substrate within said second processing chamber; and processing said substrate within said second processing chamber. 12. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 7, wherein said dense phase fluid is selected from a group consisting of: methane, ethane, propane, butane, pentane, hexane, ethylene, propylene, tetrafluoromethane, chlorodifluoromethane, sulfur hexafluoride, perfluoropropane, carbon dioxide, ammonia, helium, krypton, argon, sulfur trioxide, nitrous oxide, and mixtures of the aforementioned. 13. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of claim 9, further comprising removing said substrate from said second processing chamber. 14. The method for processing a semiconductor substrate of either claim 4 or 13, further comprising: transferring said substrate into an additional load lock; sealing said additional load lock; raising the pressure in said additional load lock from vacuum to atmospheric pressure; and unloading said substrate from said additional load lock into an ambient environment. 