A multiple well plate and method for media exchange, including a body defining a plurality of cell wells each connected via a channel to one of a plurality of aspiration holes, is provided. The cell wells contain a porous, hydrophilic frit which is suspended on a ledge above a reservoir of fluid media and supports a tissue sample. The properties of the frit wick the fluid media upwards to supply the tissue sample with nutrients for growth and proliferation. Old media is aspirated from the wells by a liquid handling device which inserts a pipette tip into the aspiration holes. The pipette tip applies a suction pressure which draws the media out of the cell well, through the channel, into the aspiration hole and out through the pipette tip. New media is dispersed through the pipette tip and directly into the cell well.
Claims That which is claimed: 1. An assembly for supporting a tissue which is to be bathed in a media that is regularly aspirated and refreshed by a top-loading pipette device, said assembly comprising: a porous frit; and a body having an upper surface, said body defining: a first hole having a first hole upper edge defined by the upper surface of the body and a first hole bottom portion defined within the body and below the upper surface of the body, said first hole being configured to receive the porous frit and the tissue and to hold the media bathing the porous frit and the tissue; a crescent-shaped ledge protruding into the first hole bottom portion and configured to support the frit thereon; and a second hole having a second hole upper edge defined by the upper surface of the body and a second hole bottom portion defined within the body and below the upper surface of the body, the second hole bottom portion being connected in fluid communication with the first hole bottom portion such that the pipette device can access the first hole through the second hole upper edge to aspirate the media through vacuum application and refresh the media by pumping in fresh media without removal of the tissue and the porous frit from the plate. 2. An assembly of claim 1, wherein the top surface of the body is configured to receive a cover plate disposed thereon. 3. An assembly of claim 2, further comprising a cover plate that is transparent to light transmission and wherein the first hole upper edge is configured to allow light transmission to the tissue contained in the first hole by having a height to diameter ratio of less than 2 to 1 so that growth of the tissue is promoted. 4. An assembly of claim 1, wherein the second hole has a diameter that is compatible with pre-existing pipette tips. 5. An assembly of claim 1, wherein the body is formed from a single piece of material. 6. An assembly for supporting a tissue which is to be bathed in a media that is regularly aspirated and refreshed by a top-loading pipette device, said assembly comprising: a porous frit; a body being formed from a single piece of material and having an upper surface, said body defining: a first hole having a first hole upper edge defined by the upper surface of the body and a first hole bottom portion defined within the body and below the upper surface of the body, said first hole being configured to receive the porous frit and the tissue and to hold the media bathing the porous frit and the tissue; and a second hole having a second hole upper edge defined by the upper surface of the body and a second hole bottom portion defined within the body and below the upper surface of the body, the second hole bottom portion being connected in fluid communication with the first hole bottom portion such that the pipette device can access the first hole through the second hole upper edge to aspirate the media through vacuum application and refresh the media by pumping in fresh media without removal of the tissue and the porous frit from the plate. 7. An assembly of claim 6, wherein the porous frit is constructed of a sintered polyethylene material. 8. An assembly of claim 7, wherein the frit is hydrophilic. 9. An assembly of claim 6, wherein the frit is about 0.25 inches thick. 10. An assembly of claim 6, wherein the frit has a pore size of 90 to 130 micrometers. 11. An assembly of claim 6, wherein the body further comprises a ledge protruding into the first hole bottom portion and configured to support the frit thereon. 12. An assembly of claim 1, wherein the porous frit is constructed of a sintered polyethylene material. 13. An assembly of claim 12, wherein the frit is hydrophilic. 14. An assembly of claim 1, wherein the frit is about 0.25 inches thick. 15. An assembly of claim 1, wherein the frit has a pore size of 90 to 130 micrometers. 