A robotic vehicle includes a chassis supported on right and left driven tracks, right and left elongated flippers disposed on corresponding sides of the chassis, and a battery unit holder disposed on the chassis for removably receiving a battery unit weighing at least 50 lbs. The battery unit holder includes a guide for receiving and guiding the battery unit to a connected position and a connector mount having locating features and communication features. The locating features receive corresponding locating features of the battery unit, as the battery unit is moved to its connected position, to align the communication features of the connector mount with corresponding communication features of the battery unit. The communication features of the connector mount are movable in a plane transverse to the guide to aid alignment of the communication features for establishment of an electrical connection therebetween when the battery unit is in its connected position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A robotic vehicle comprising: a chassis having front and rear ends and supported on right and left driven tracks, each track trained about a corresponding front wheel rotatable about a front wheel axis; right and left elongated flippers disposed on corresponding sides of the chassis and operable to pivot about the front wheel axis of the chassis, each flipper having a driven track about its perimeter; a battery unit holder disposed on the chassis for removably receiving a battery unit weighing at least 50 lbs, the battery unit holder comprising: a guide for receiving and guiding the battery unit to a connected position; and a connector mount having locating features and communication features, the locating features receiving corresponding locating features of the battery unit, as the battery unit is moved to its connected position, to align the communication features of the connector mount with corresponding communication features of the battery unit; wherein the communication features of the connector mount are movable in a plane transverse to the guide to aid alignment of the communication features for establishment of an electrical connection therebetween when the battery unit is in its connected position. 2. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the battery unit holder further comprises a latch for securing the battery unit in its connected position. 3. The robotic vehicle of claim 2, wherein the latch comprises a gate pivotally coupled to the chassis. 4. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the battery unit holder guide comprises right and left battery unit guides configured to receive corresponding guide features of the battery unit. 5. The robotic vehicle of claim 4, wherein the battery unit holder comprises: right and left side plates having the corresponding right and left battery unit guides; and a front plate connected to the right and left side plates, the connector mount of the battery unit holder disposed on the front plate; wherein the battery unit slides along the battery unit guides to substantially align a connector of the battery unit with the connector mount of the battery unit holder. 6. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the guide is configured to withstand at least a 50G shock load while remaining operational. 7. The robotic vehicle of claim 1, wherein the locating features of the connector mount comprise first and second spaced apart projections configured to be received by and mate with corresponding first and second locating receptacles of the battery unit. 8. A robotic vehicle comprising: a chassis having front and rear ends and supported on right and left driven tracks, each track trained about a corresponding front wheel rotatable about a front wheel axis; right and left elongated flippers disposed on corresponding sides of the chassis and operable to pivot about the front wheel axis of the chassis, each flipper having a driven track about its perimeter; a deck assembly configured to receive a removable payload; and a linkage connecting the deck assembly to the chassis, the linkage having a first end rotatably connected to the chassis at a first pivot, and a second end rotatably connected to the deck assembly at a second pivot, both of the first and second pivots including independently controllable pivot drivers operable to rotatably position their corresponding pivots to control both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the deck assembly with respect to the chassis; wherein the linkage comprises a single unitary link connecting the deck assembly to the chassis; and wherein the independently controllable pivot drivers provide both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the deck assembly with respect to the chassis to selectively displace a center of gravity of the deck assembly both forward and rearward of a center of gravity of the chassis. 9. A robotic vehicle comprising: a chassis having front and rear ends and supported on right and left driven tracks, each track trained about a corresponding front wheel rotatable about a front wheel axis; right and left elongated flippers disposed on corresponding sides of the chassis and operable to pivot about the front wheel axis of the chassis, each flipper having a driven track about its perimeter; a deck assembly configured to receive a removable payload; and a linkage connecting the deck assembly to the chassis, the linkage having a first end rotatably connected to the chassis at a first pivot, and a second end rotatably connected to the deck assembly at a second pivot, both of the first and second pivots including independently controllable pivot drivers operable to rotatably position their corresponding pivots to control both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the deck assembly with respect to the chassis; wherein the linkage comprises a single unitary link connecting the deck assembly to the chassis; and wherein the deck assembly is configured to receive a removable payload on top and bottom portions of the deck assembly, a controller recognizing the receipt and placement of the payload on the deck assembly. 10. A robotic vehicle comprising: a chassis having front and rear ends and supported on right and left driven tracks, each track trained about a corresponding front wheel rotatable about a front wheel axis; right and left elongated flippers disposed on corresponding sides of the chassis and operable to pivot about the front wheel axis of the chassis, each flipper having a driven track about its perimeter; a deck assembly configured to receive a removable payload; and a linkage connecting the deck assembly to the chassis, the linkage having a first end rotatably connected to the chassis at a first pivot, and a second end rotatably connected to the deck assembly at a second pivot, both of the first and second pivots including independently controllable pivot drivers operable to rotatably position their corresponding pivots to control both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the deck assembly with respect to the chassis; wherein the linkage comprises a single unitary link connecting the deck assembly to the chassis; and wherein the chassis has a center of gravity between its front and rear ends, each flipper having a pivot end, a distal end, and a center of gravity therebetween, the linkage having a center of gravity between its first and second ends, and the deck assembly having a leading end, and a trailing end, and a center of gravity therebetween, the second pivot disposed on the deck assembly substantially at a mid-point between the leading and trailing ends of the deck assembly. 11. The robotic vehicle of claim 10, wherein the linkage together with the deck assembly shifts between about 10% and about 50% of the vehicle weight, shifting a combined center of gravity of the vehicle between an aft center of gravity position intermediate the front and rear ends of the chassis and a fore center of gravity position intermediate the distal and pivot ends of the flippers. 12. A robotic vehicle comprising: a chassis having front and rear ends and supported on right and left driven tracks, each track trained about a corresponding front wheel rotatable about a front wheel axis; right and left elongated flippers disposed on corresponding sides of the chassis and operable to pivot about the front wheel axis of the chassis, each flipper having a driven track about its perimeter; a deck assembly configured to receive a removable payload; and a linkage connecting the payload deck to the chassis, the linkage having a first end rotatably connected to the chassis at a first pivot, and a second end rotatably connected to the deck assembly at a second pivot, both of the first and second pivots including independently controllable pivot drivers operable to rotatably position their corresponding pivots to control both fore-aft position and pitch orientation of the deck assembly with respect to the chassis; wherein the deck assembly comprises: a deck base pivotably connected to the linkage at the second pivot and electrically connected to the chassis to receive power and communication therefrom; and at least one connection point disposed on the deck base and configured to provide a payload power link and a payload communication link; wherein top and bottom portions of the deck base are each configured to receive a removable payload. 13. The robotic vehicle of claim 12, further comprising a controller in communication with the deck assembly, the controller recognizing the receipt and placement of a payload on the deck assembly. 14. The robotic vehicle of claim 12, wherein the top portion of the deck base receives a modular platform configured to support a removable payload. 15. The robotic vehicle of claim 12, wherein the chassis has a center of gravity between its front and rear ends, each flipper having a pivot end, a distal end, and a center of gravity therebetween, the linkage having a center of gravity between its first and second ends, and the deck assembly having a leading end, and a trailing end, and a center of gravity therebetween, the second pivot disposed on the deck assembly substantially at a mid-point between the leading and trailing ends of the deck assembly. 16. The robotic vehicle of claim 15, wherein the linkage together with the deck assembly shifts more between about 10% and about 50% of the vehicle weight, shifting a combined center of gravity of the vehicle between an aft center of gravity position intermediate the front and rear ends of the chassis and a fore center of gravity position intermediate the distal and pivot ends of the flippers. 17. The robotic vehicle of claim 12, wherein at least a portion of the deck assembly has a width at least as wide as the chassis. 