The present invention features a rapid fire rapid response power conversion system comprising (a) a chamber having at least one fluid port configured to supply combustible fluid to the chamber, and an out-take port; (b) a compressor for supplying compressed combustible fuel to the chamber at a variable pressure to at least partially facilitate combustion therein; (c) a controller for initiating and controlling a combustion of the combustible fluid in a combustion portion of the chamber to generate energy; (d) a rapid response component in fluid communication with the chamber and situated adjacent the combustion portion of the chamber, wherein the rapid response component is configured to draw an optimized portion of the energy generated from the combustion and to convert this optimized portion of energy into kinetic energy; and (e) a dynamic mass structure situated between the rapid response component and an energy transfer component and allowing the rapid response component and the energy transfer component to be independent of one another, wherein the dynamic mass structure is configured to receive and store the kinetic energy from the rapid response component upon being acted upon by the rapid response component, wherein the dynamic mass structure is displaced a pre-determined distance and at a given velocity such that it is caused to impact the energy transfer component, thereby transferring substantially all of the kinetic energy stored therein into the energy transfer component. The transfer of stored kinetic energy into the energy transfer component by the dynamic mass structure effectively causes the energy transfer component to displace, wherein the displacement is used to perform work used to power the device or system operable with the energy transfer component.
Claims What is claimed and desired to be secured by Letters Patent is: 1. A rapid response power conversion system comprising: a chamber having at least one fluid port configured to supply combustible fluid to said chamber, and an out-take port; a local compressor for displacing a piston within said chamber, said piston and said at least one fluid port configured to selectively provide a variable pressure to said chamber and to at least partially facilitate a combustion therein; a controller for initiating and controlling said combustion of said combustible fluid in a combustion portion of said chamber to generate energy; a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber and said combustion portion of said chamber, said rapid response component configured to extract an optimized portion of said available energy generated from said combustion and to convert said optimized portion of said energy into kinetic energy; an energy transfer component independent of said rapid response component and configured to convert available energy to power a powered device; a dynamic mass structure situated between said rapid response component and said energy transfer component, said dynamic mass structure configured to receive and store said kinetic energy upon interacting with said rapid response component, wherein said dynamic mass structure is displaced and caused to impact said energy transfer component to transfer substantially all of said kinetic energy into said energy transfer component to power said powered device. 2. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said rapid response component comprises a secondary piston disposed in said chamber, said secondary piston comprising an energy receiving portion and an impacting portion, said energy receiving portion configured to draw said optimized portion of said energy generated from said combustion in said chamber. 3. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 2, wherein said impacting portion is configured to transfer said optimized portion of said energy received from said combustion to said dynamic mass structure. 4. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said energy transfer component converts said kinetic energy received from said dynamic mass structure into at least one form of usable energy selected from the group consisting of hydraulic energy, pneumatic energy, electric energy and mechanical energy. 5. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said rapid response component is configured to return to an initial starting position after transferring said kinetic energy to said dynamic mass structure. 6. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said dynamic mass structure displaces a pre-determined distance prior to impacting said energy transfer component. 7. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said dynamic mass structure comprises a pre-determined mass. 8. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said dynamic mass structure is configured to return to its initial starting position adjacent said rapid response component after impacting said energy transfer component and prior to a subsequent combustion. 9. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said dynamic mass structure is biased to return to its initial starting position adjacent said rapid response component after impacting said energy transfer component and prior to a subsequent combustion. 10. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said rapid response component is biased to return to its initial starting position prior to a subsequent combustion. 11. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said controller comprises a spark ignition source configured to at least partially facilitate said combustion in said chamber. 12. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said controller comprises a fuel controller for combining a fuel with an oxidizer to at least partially facilitate said combustion in said chamber. 13. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 12, wherein said oxidizer is selected from the group consisting of pure oxygen and air. 14. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said controller includes structure for releasing a fuel into compressed oxidizer fluid to at least partially facilitate said combustion in said chamber. 15. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said chamber is configured to operate in combination with an engine selected from the group consisting of a spark ignition internal combustion engine and a compression ignition internal combustion engine. 16. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said rapid response component is configured to provide greater bandwidth than direct bandwidth supplied directly by said piston of said internal combustion engine. 17. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said rapid response component is configured to draw said portion of said energy from said chamber during a time period from a proximate instant of said combustion and prior to said piston reciprocating to a position at a median between a top dead center position and a bottom dead center position. 18. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 1, wherein said piston is configured to substantially continuously reciprocate in said chamber. 19. The rapid response power conversion system of claim 14, wherein said controller is configured to initiate said combustion at selected cycles of one or more cycles of said piston, wherein said selected combustion cycles are non-continuous. 20. A rapid response power conversion system comprising: a chamber having at least one fluid intake port configured to receive combustible fluid into said chamber, and an outtake port; a remote compressor in fluid communication with said chamber and configured to selectively provide compressed combustible fluid at a variable pressure to said chamber through said fluid intake port to at least partially facilitate combustion therein; a controller for initiating and controlling a combustion of said combustible fluid in a combustion portion of said chamber to generate energy; a rapid response component in fluid communication with said chamber and said combustion portion of said chamber, said rapid response component configured to extract an optimized portion of said energy generated from said combustion and to convert said optimized portion of said energy into kinetic energy; an energy transfer component independent of said rapid response component and configured to convert available energy to power a powered device; a dynamic mass structure situated between said rapid response component and said energy transfer component, said dynamic mass structure configured to receive and store said kinetic energy upon interacting with said rapid response component, wherein said dynamic mass structure is displaced and caused to impact said energy transfer component to transfer substantially all of said kinetic energy into said energy transfer component to power said powered device. 21. A method of powering a powered device comprising: providing an internal combustion engine configured to generate energy from a combustion occurring within a combustion chamber and to power a powered device; providing a rapid response component to be in fluid communication with said combustion chamber, said rapid response component configured to displace in response to said combustion and to extract said generated energy and convert said energy into kinetic energy; providing an energy transfer component separate from and independent of said rapid response component, said energy transfer component operably coupled to said powered device and configured to power said powered device from said energy generated from said internal combustion engine; operating said internal combustion engine to generate said energy from said combustion; configuring said rapid response component to displace in response to said combustion until substantially all of said energy generated in said combustion is extracted, said rapid response component converting said energy to kinetic energy; providing a dynamic mass structure configured to interact with said rapid response component, said dynamic mass structure independent of said rapid response component and said energy transfer component; causing said rapid response component to interact with said dynamic mass structure to transfer at least a portion of said kinetic energy into said dynamic mass structure, said interaction causing said dynamic mass component to displace; configuring said dynamic mass structure to depart from said rapid response component; and causing said dynamic mass structure to impact said energy transfer component to transfer said kinetic energy in said dynamic mass structure into said energy transfer component, wherein said energy transfer component converts said kinetic energy into usable energy capable of powering and operating said powered device. 22. The method of claim 21, further comprising returning said rapid response component to an initial starting position prior to a subsequent engine cycle. 23. The method of claim 21, further comprising returning said dynamic mass structure to an initial starting position prior to a subsequent engine cycle. 24. The method of claim 21, wherein said dynamic mass structure departs from said rapid response component at the moment all of said kinetic energy from said rapid response component is transferred to said dynamic mass structure. 25. A method for optimizing the output power of an internal combustion engine, said method comprising: operating an internal combustion engine to generate energy from a combustion occurring within a combustion chamber; positioning a rapid response component in fluid communication with said combustion chamber, said rapid response component configured to extract and convert into kinetic energy said energy generated by said internal combustion engine; and configuring said rapid response component to displace in response to said combustion until substantially all of said energy is extracted and converted into kinetic energy; and causing said rapid response component to interact with and displace an independent dynamic mass structure to transfer substantially all of said kinetic energy to said dynamic mass structure, said rapid response component being caused to come to rest upon said transfer, with said dynamic mass structure continuing in motion, thus isolating said kinetic energy from said rapid response component. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising configuring said dynamic mass structure to depart from said rapid response component after substantially all of said kinetic energy is transferred to said dynamic mass structure. 27. The method of claim 26, further comprising returning said rapid response component and said dynamic mass structure to an initial starting position prior to a subsequent engine cycle. 28. The method of claim 25, further comprising causing said dynamic mass structure to impact an energy transfer component to transfer substantially all of said kinetic energy into said energy transfer component. 