Biodynamic feedthrough in a master control system can be mitigated. An accelerometer is used to measure the acceleration of an environment. In one embodiment, mitigation damping forces can then be determined based on the velocity of an effector of a haptic manipulator and the measured accelerations. The haptic manipulator applies the mitigation damping forces as force feedback. In another embodiment, biodynamic feedthrough can be filtered from the input signal. Parameters for a model can be accessed based on the position of the effector, and the model can be used to predict biodynamic feedthrough from the measured accelerations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A master control system adapted to allow a user of the master control system to operate a slave apparatus, the master control system comprising: a three-axis accelerometer to measure acceleration of an environment in three-dimensional space, the environment containing both the master control system and the user of the master control system; a haptic manipulator having an effector, wherein the master control system is adapted to measure a velocity of the effector; a biodynamic feedthrough mitigation module to determine feedthrough mitigation forces using the acceleration of the environment from the accelerometer and the velocity of the effector; and a feedback module to cause the haptic manipulator to apply the feedthrough mitigation forces, wherein the feedthrough mitigation forces resist biodynamic feedthrough caused by the acceleration of the environment. 2. The master control system of claim 1, wherein the biodynamic feedthrough mitigation module determines the feedthrough mitigation forces by determining a first damping coefficient for a first axis of motion, wherein the first damping coefficient is based on the acceleration of the environment along the first axis of motion. 3. The master control system of claim 2, wherein the biodynamic feedthrough mitigation module determines the feedthrough mitigation forces by determining a first damping force by multiplying the first damping coefficient by the velocity of the effector along the first axis of motion. 4. The master control system of claim 1, wherein the haptic manipulator comprises a surgical control apparatus, and the environment comprises a moving vehicle. 5. A master control system adapted to allow a user of the master control system to operate a slave apparatus, the master control system comprising: a three-axis accelerometer to measure acceleration of an environment in three-dimensional space, the environment containing both the master control system and the user of the master control system; a haptic manipulator comprising an effector, one or more sensors to measure an instantaneous position of the effector, and one or more motors adapted to apply force feedback to the effector; and a processor adapted to determine a velocity of the effector using the one or more sensors, to determine feedthrough damping forces using the acceleration of the environment and the velocity of the effector, and to command the one or more motors to apply the feedthrough damping forces, wherein the feedthrough damping forces resist biodynamic feedthrough caused by the acceleration of the environment. 6. The master control system of claim 5, wherein the haptic manipulator further comprises a haptic processor to process data from the one or more sensors to determine the instantaneous position of the effector. 7. A master control system adapted to allow a user of the master control system to operate a slave apparatus, the master control system comprising: a three-axis accelerometer to measure acceleration of an environment in three-dimensional space, the environment containing both the master control system and the user of the master control system; a haptic manipulator having an effector; an input module to generate an input signal based on movements of the effector; a biodynamic feedthrough mitigation module to determine whether to temporarily lock out the user from moving the effector, the determination being based at least in part on the measured acceleration of the environment; and a feedback module to cause the haptic manipulator to apply lockout damping forces to prevent the user from moving the effector. 8. The master control system of claim 7, wherein the biodynamic feedthrough mitigation module determines whether to temporarily lock out the user from moving the effector by filtering high-frequency accelerations from the measured acceleration of the environment. 9. The master control system of claim 8, wherein the biodynamic feedthrough mitigation module determines whether to temporarily lock out the user from moving the effector by determining an instantaneous rate of change of the filtered acceleration of the environment. 10. The master control system of claim 9, wherein the biodynamic feedthrough mitigation module determines whether to temporarily lock out the user from moving the effector by determining whether the instantaneous rate of change of the filtered acceleration of the environment is above a threshold value. 11. The master control system of claim 7, wherein the feedback module is adapted to cause the haptic manipulator to cease applying lockout damping forces after a predetermined duration of time. 12. The master control system of claim 11, wherein the predetermined duration of time is substantially transparent to the user. 13. A master control system adapted to allow a user of the master control system to operate a slave apparatus, the master control system comprising: an accelerometer to measure an instantaneous gravitational force experienced by the master control system and the user of the master control system; a haptic manipulator having an effector, wherein the haptic manipulator accepts as input a weight of the effector; and a processor to determine the instantaneous apparent weight of the effector using the weight of the effector and the measured instantaneous gravitational force, and to input the instantaneous apparent weight of the effector as the weight of the effector into the haptic manipulator. 14. The master control system of claim 13, wherein the effector is swappable, and the haptic manipulator is adapted to balance effectors of different weights by accepting the weight of the effector as input. 