A parallel robot or parallel kinematics mechanism is provided for uses such as robotics or machining. The mechanism comprises a fixed base, a main arm, and a first and second support arm to position and orient an object in a cylindrical space with at least three degrees of freedom and retained inclination. The main arm includes an end component for supporting the object and linkage means to retain the inclination of the end component with respect to the base for all positions and orientations of the end component. The mechanism advantageously provides a large cylindrical workspace and a small footprint and is capable of moving an object at high accelerations and speeds. The mechanism can be equipped with an additional motor to orient an object, thereby providing the mobility of a SCARA robot. Alternatively, it can be equipped with passive transmission means that allow for an object to be displaced in parallel to itself.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mechanism for positioning and orienting an object in space with at least three degrees of freedom, the mechanism comprising: a base; a main arm, said main arm comprising a platform rotatably mounted to said base and allowed to rotate about a central axis, an end component for supporting said object, linkage means interposed between said platform and said end component, said linkage means allowing said end component two and only two translational degrees of freedom with respect to said platform and retaining the inclination of said end component with respect to said central axis for all positions and orientations of said end component, and an actuator for influencing one of said translational degrees of freedom of said end component; and a first and a second support arm, each of said first and second support arm comprising an actuator arm rotatably connected to said base, an actuator for rotating said actuator arm relative to said base about a respective first and second actuator axis, and a forearm movably connected to said actuator arm, wherein the forearms of said first and said second support arm are movably connected to said main arm and capable of fully supporting said main arm and said end component, so that said first and said second support arm influence the position and orientation of said end component. 2. A mechanism according to claim 1, wherein said linkage means comprise an actuator arm rotatably connected to said platform and actuated by the actuator of said main arm relative to said platform about a main actuator axis, a forearm movably connected to said actuator arm with at least one rotational degree of freedom about a forearm axis, said forearm further being movably connected to said end component with at least one rotational degree of freedom about an end axis. 3. A mechanism according to claim 2, wherein said main actuator axis is substantially perpendicular to said central axis and substantially parallel to said forearm axis and said end axis for all positions and orientations of said end component. 4. A mechanism according to claim 2, wherein said linkage means further comprise a reference link rotatably connected to the actuator arm of said main arm about said forearm axis, a first link movably connected to each of said platform and said reference link, said first link being of equal length as the actuator arm of said main arm and offset in parallel thereto; and a second link movably connected to each of said reference link and said end component, said second link being of equal length as the forearm of said main arm and offset in parallel Thereto. 5. A mechanism according to claim 1, wherein said linkage means comprise: a reference link; an actuator arm rotatably connected to each of said platform and said reference link on opposing ends, wherein said actuator arm is actuated by the actuator of said main arm relative to said platform about a main actuator axis; a first link movably connected to each of said platform and said reference link on opposing ends, said first link being of equal length as the actuator arm of said main arm and offset in parallel thereto; a forearm rotatably connected to each of said reference link and said end component on opposing ends; and a second link movably connected to each of said reference link and said end component on opposing ends, said second link being of equal length as the forearm of said main arm and offset in parallel thereto. 6. A mechanism according to claim 1, wherein said first and said second actuator axis are substantially parallel to said central axis. 7. A mechanism according to claim 1, wherein said first and said second actuator axis are substantially coincident with said central axis. 8. A mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the forearm of at least one of said first and said second support arm is connected to the respective actuator arm by at least two revolute joints in series, said revolute joints having mutually non-parallel and intersecting axes of rotation. 9. A mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the forearm of at least one of said first and said second support arm is connected to said main arm by at least two revolute joints in series, said revolute joints having mutually non-parallel and intersecting axes of rotation. 10. A mechanism according to claim 1, wherein the forearm of at least one of said first and said second support arm is movably connected to the end component. 11. A mechanism according to claim 2, wherein the forearm of at least one of said first and said second support arm is movably connected to the forearm of said main arm. 12. A mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising an intermediate link for movably connecting the forearms of said first and said second support arm to said main arm, said intermediate link being rotatably connected to each of the forearms of said first and said second support arm, said intermediate link being further rotatably connected to said main arm. 13. A mechanism according to claim 1, further comprising a work tool movably mounted to said end component and a work tool actuator mounted to said end component and operably linked to said work tool, said work tool actuator driving said work tool to move relative to said end component. 14. A mechanism according to claim 2, further comprising elastic means for statically balancing said mechanism, said elastic means comprising at least a first spring interposed between said platform and said actuator arm of said main arm, wherein said elastic means compensate gravitational forces acting on the actuators of said main arm and said first and said second support arm for at least one position and orientation of said end component. 15. A method of moving an object in space with at least three degrees of freedom and retained inclination, comprising: providing a mechanism, said mechanism including a base, a main arm comprising an end component for supporting said object and an actuator for actuating said main arm, said main arm being rotatably mounted to said base about a central axis, said mechanism further including a first and a second support arm comprising an actuator for actuating the respective support arm, each of said first and second support arm being interposed between said base and said main arm, actuating said main arm and said first and second support arm with the respective actuator to influence the position and orientation of said end component relative to said base; and retaining the inclination of said end component with respect to said central axis with said main arm and only said main arm, wherein said main arm further comprises a platform rotatably mounted to said base and allowed to rotate about said central axis and linkage means interposed between said platform and said end component said linkage means allowing said end component two and only two translational degrees of freedom with respect to said platform and retaining the inclination of said end component with respect to said central axis, and wherein each of said first and second support arm comprises an actuator arm rotatably connected to said base and actuated by said actuator relative to said base, and a forearm movably connected to said actuator arm, wherein the forearms of said first and said second support arm are movably connected to said main arm and capable of fully supporting said main arm and said end component. 