Exposure equipment adapted for use in the manufacture of semiconductor devices and a related control are disclosed. A wafer stage in the exposure equipment comprises an image sensor adapted to detect patterned light from the reticle. Image data corresponding to the detected patterned light is compared to reference image data to verify a state of overlay mismatch of reticle pattern accuracy prior to wafer exposure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Exposure equipment useful in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, comprising: a wafer stage adapted to seat a wafer; a light system adapted to provide light having a desired wavelength; a reticle adapted to pass the light received from the light system and generate patterned light; an optical system positioned between the wafer stage and the reticle and adapted to direct the patterned light; an image sensor adapted to detect the patterned light and generate image data corresponding to the patterned light; a comparing section adapted to compare the image data with stored reference image data; and a control section controlling operation of the comparing section and allowing exposure of the wafer to the pattern light when the image data and the stored reference image data are substantially similar, but generating an interlock condition when the image data and the stored reference image data are not substantially similar, wherein the interlock condition prevents exposure of the wafer to the patterned light. 2. The exposure equipment of claim 1, wherein the wafer stage comprises a holding region adapted to seat the wafer and a detecting region adapted to receive the image sensor. 3. The exposure equipment of claim 2, wherein the wafer stage further comprises a wafer stage transfer unit controlled by the control section and adapted to move the wafer stage so as to selectively expose the holding region and the detecting region to the patterned light. 4. The exposure equipment of claim 1, further comprising: a storage device controlled by the control section and adapted to store image data and reference image data, wherein the comparing section receives both image data and reference image data from the storage device. 5. The exposure equipment of claim 4, wherein the reference image data comprises image data related to a previously exposed reticle or image data related to a design reference. 6. The exposure equipment of claim 1, wherein comparison of the image data and reference image data indicate a state of overlay mismatch between two or more reticles. 7. The exposure equipment of claim 1, wherein the image sensor comprises a CMOS image sensor or a CCD image sensor. 8. A method of controlling exposure equipment during the manufacture of a semiconductor device, the method comprising: emitting light having a desired wavelength and passing the light through a reticle and an optical system to expose either a wafer seated on a wafer stage or an image sensor to patterned light generated by the reticle; detecting the patterned light with the image sensor; comparing image data generated by the image sensor in response to the detected patterned light with reference image data stored in a storage device, and if the image data and reference data are substantially similar, then exposing the wafer to the patterned light, else entering an interlock condition that precludes exposure of the wafer to the patterned light. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the reference image data comprises image data related to a previously exposed reticle or image data related to a design reference. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the comparison of the image data and reference image data indicates a state of overlay mismatch between the reticle and the previously exposed reticle. 11. The method of claim 9, wherein the comparison of the image data and reference image data verifies the accuracy of a pattern formed on the reticle in relation to a design reference associated with the pattern. 12. The method of claim 8, wherein the wafer stage comprises a holding region adapted to seat the wafer and a detecting region holding the image sensor. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the wafer stage further comprises a wafer stage transfer unit adapted to move the wafer stage so as to selectively expose the holding region or the detecting region to the patterned light. 14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: storing the image data and the reference image data in a storage device; and, selectively transferring image data or reference image data from the storage device to a comparing section in order to compare the image data with the reference data. 15. The method of claim 8, wherein the image sensor comprises a CMOS image sensor or a COD image sensor. 16. A method of controlling exposure equipment during the manufacture of a semiconductor device, the method comprising: emitting light having a desired wavelength and passing the light through a reticle and an optical system to expose either a wafer seated on a wafer stage or an image sensor to patterned light generated by the reticle; detecting the patterned light with the image sensor; comparing image data generated by the image sensor in response to the detected patterned light with reference image data stored in a storage device, wherein the reference image data comprises image data related to a previously exposed reticle or image data related to a design reference, and wherein the comparison of the image data and reference image data indicates a state of overlay mismatch between the reticle and the previously exposed reticle; and upon determining that the image data and reference image data are substantially similar, exposing the wafer to the pattern light, but upon determining that the compared image data and reference image data are not substantially similar, entering an interlock condition. 17. A method of controlling exposure equipment during the manufacture of a semiconductor device, the method comprising: emitting light having a desired wavelength and passing the light through a reticle and an optical system to expose either a wafer seated on a wafer stage or an image sensor to patterned light generated by the reticle; detecting the patterned light with the image sensor; comparing image data generated by the image sensor in response to the detected patterned light with reference image data stored in a storage device, wherein the comparison of the image data and reference image data verifies the accuracy of a pattern formed on the reticle in relation to a design reference associated with the pattern; and upon determining that the compared image data and reference image data are substantially similar exposing the wafer to the pattern light, or upon determining that the compared image data and reference image data are not substantially similar entering an interlock condition. 