A flexible container for fluid administration is provided having a body defining a cavity, a base, and at least one port comprising a flange in contact with a flange of a terminal port having a punctureable membrane layer. The body has a cross-sectional configuration including a lower body section of a first dimension, a middle body section of a second dimension, and an upper body section of a third dimension, wherein the second dimension is smaller than the first dimension and the third dimension. The flexible container may also include a base having a plurality of creases that are foldable to form two folded ends each including an extension having a base of a first dimension and a tip of a second dimension.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A container comprising a body section, a base, and a nozzle section comprising at least one nozzle attached to a terminal port comprising a housing having a stopper positioned therein; said stopper comprising an outer wall defining a first central space, a central wall located inside the first central space and connected to a top wall, a base wall joining the outer wall to the central wall, and a plurality of gaps between the outer wall and the central wall; said plurality of gaps defined by a plurality of spaced-apart ribs, each of said plurality of spaced-apart ribs being in contact with both the outer wall and the central wall; and wherein at least two of the plurality of ribs are aligned evenly with the top wall to form a continuous surface from one section of the outer wall to another section of the outer wall. 2. The container of claim 1, wherein said terminal port is a set port comprising a punctureable membrane located subjacent the base wall. 3. The container of claim 1, further comprising a second nozzle spaced apart from the at least one nozzle and having a web therebetween. 4. The container of claim 1, wherein the central wall defines a cavity sized to grip a spike. 5. The container of claim 1, wherein the body section comprises at least three edges having a front container wall surface and a rear container wall surface extending therefrom. 6. The container of claim 1, wherein the stopper is made from a self-lubricating silicone material. 7. The container of claim 6, wherein the self-lubricating silicone material is impregnated with antimicrobial metals. 8. The container of claim 1, wherein the stopper comprises a material adapted for being pierced by a sharp spike. 9. A container comprising a body section, a base, and a nozzle section comprising at least one nozzle comprising a puncturable membrane attached to a terminal port comprising a housing having a stopper positioned therein; said stopper comprising an outer wall, a central section that is rupturable by an IV spike, a central wall connected to the central section to define a central cavity, and a gap between the outer wall and the central wall; said gap being occupied by a plurality of spaced-apart ribs, each of said plurality of spaced-apart ribs being in contact with both the outer wall and the central wall; and wherein a top wall is fixed axially relative to the ribs and the central wall is expandable radially into the gap to accommodate an IV spike. 10. The container of claim 9, further comprising a second nozzle spaced apart from the at least one nozzle and having a web therebetween. 11. The container of claim 9, wherein the top wall punctured before the central wall can expand radially. 12. The container of claim 9, wherein the stopper is made from a self-lubricating silicone material. 13. The container of claim 9, wherein a base wall connects the central wall to the outer wall. 14. The container of claim 12, wherein the self-lubricating silicone material is impregnated with antimicrobial metals. 15. The container of claim 9, wherein at least two of the plurality of spaced-apart ribs align with the top wall to define a planar surface extending from one section of the outer wall to another section of the outer wall. 