A robot control unit for controlling a robot mechanism unit constantly detects the status of a robot and stores it as robot status data. An operation command input by voice from a head set is converted into character data by a voice/character data conversion device, and input to a control device. The control device searches a command corresponding to an operation command input in operation commands stored in management data. An executing program group is specified for link and storage with the corresponding operation command.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An industrial robot, comprising: storage means for storing a plurality of operation commands in which one or more executing programs are associated with each of said operation commands; means for detecting an operation command corresponding to an input operation command, from among the plurality of operation commands stored in the storage means; determination means for determining whether or not one or more executing programs corresponding to the detected operation command are to be executed, according to the status of a robot; and means for executing said executing program determined to be executed. 2. The industrial robot according to claim 1, wherein a determination order is preset by said determination means on the plurality of executing programs corresponding to each of said operation commands. 3. The industrial robot according to claim 1, further comprising voice input means for inputting an operation command by voice of an operator. 4. The industrial robot according to claim 3, wherein said voice input means is provided for a teaching pendant of said industrial robot. 5. The industrial robot according to claim 3 or 4, further comprising public address system using an operator's voice. 6. The industrial robot according to claim 1, further comprising: means for displaying contents of said executing program determined to be executed; and means for accepting an execution permission. 7. The industrial robot according to claim 1, wherein an accepted operation command is displayed using characters on a teaching pendant of said industrial robot or a screen of an operation panel. 8. The industrial robot according to claim 1, wherein an accepted operation command is displayed using characters on a screen of an information processing device connected to said industrial robot. 9. The industrial robot according to claim 1, wherein an accepted operation command is also notified by a lamp or voice. 10. An industrial robot, comprising: storage means for storing a plurality of operation commands and a predetermined units of execution programs that may be required to execute and complete said operation command, in which said executing programs are associated with each of said operation commands and execution order; means for detecting an operation command corresponding to an input operation command, from among the plurality of operation commands stored in the storage means; determination means for determining whether or not the executing programs corresponding to the detected operation command are to be executed according to the status of a robot and the execution order; and means for executing said executing program determined to be executed. 11. The industrial robot according to claim 2 or 10, wherein in case where said determination means determine to execute one executing program, among a plurality of executing programs corresponding to said each operation command, the determination means determine not to execute the other executing programs in the same execution order. 