A slitting mechanism has one or more slitting shafts between rotating brackets. Each shaft has one or more slitting disks arranged along its length. Each disk has a cutting edge and the slitting mechanism can either enter or not enter a path followed by a web of media such as wallpaper media, according to a requirement of an operator. An optional transverse cutter for the mechanism is disclosed. The mechanism and the cutter extend across a chassis with end plates. The end plates are separated enough to allow a web of media to pass between them. The end plates support a motorised cutting blade. The blade is supported at each end to perform a cutting stroke which begins on one side of the web and finished on an opposite side of the web.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A slitting mechanism for a wallpaper printer, the slitting mechanism comprising: a chassis having end plates, the end plates being separated by a transverse portion of the chassis to allow a web of media to pass between them; and a rotating carrousel of rotating slitting shafts arranged about a central support shaft extending between the end plates, each slitting shaft having at least one slitter arranged along its length in a predetermined position different from those of the slitters of the other slitting shafts, each slitter having a cutting edge, wherein the slitting mechanism is selectively engageable to either enter or not enter a path followed by the web according to an input provided by an operator of the printer, the position of the slitting mechanism in relation to the path determining a width or widths of wallpaper output from the printer, based on a discrete number of width options provided to the operator. 2. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the slitting mechanism further comprises a pair of rotating end brackets between which extend the slitting shafts and the support shaft, at least one of the brackets rotated by a motor carried by one of the end plates. 3. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a guide roller which extends between the end plates and under the path of the media; the guide roller having a number of circumferential grooves, one groove corresponding to the location of each slitter associated with the slitting mechanism. 4. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 3, wherein each shaft is positionable such that each slitter carried by a selected shaft enters a corresponding groove of the guide roller when the selected shaft is rotated into a cutting position. 5. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a transverse cutter extending between the end plates; the transverse cutter supported at each end to perform a cutting motion which begins on one side of the web and finished on an opposite side of the web. 6. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 5, wherein: one end plate supports a motor which is coupled to the transverse cutter. 7. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 5, wherein: the transverse cutter has a driven end that is carried eccentrically by a rotating member. 8. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 7, wherein: each end of the transverse cutter is carried eccentrically by a rotating member. 9. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 5, wherein the transverse cutter is configured: to perform the cutting motion in response to a signal received from a processor in a self contained wallpaper printer in which the cutter is located; and so that the performance of the cutting motion determines a length of wallpaper output from the printer, based on a length selected by an operator of the printer. 10. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the end plates have extending between them a pair of entry rollers in proximity, at least one of the entry rollers being powered. 11. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 10, wherein: the end plates have extending between them a pair of exit rollers in proximity, at least one of the exit rollers being powered. 12. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 11, wherein: one each of the entry and exit rollers is powered by a single motor carried by the chassis. 13. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 12, wherein: the one each of the entry and exit rollers are powered by a belt which passes around the one each of the entry and exit rollers and a rotating shaft associated with the motor. 14. A slitting mechanism as claimed in claim 13, wherein: the belt is external to one of the end plates which carries it. 