A system and method places a printed label on a bag. A first plurality of rollers can feed one or more bags, and a second plurality of rollers can feed one or more labels. A tamp pad can place the label on the bag.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for filling a plurality of prescription orders, comprising the steps of: transporting in at least a first direction a plurality of containers by a first plurality of rollers; transporting in the first direction a plurality of labels by a second plurality of rollers, optionally disposed on a backing sheet; printing on a label for at least one of the plurality of containers, the name and address information of a recipient of a prescription order; securely placing a label on the at least one of the plurality of containers, one container at a time, when the at least one of the plurality of containers reach a predetermined position; opening the at least one of the plurality of containers; and placing in the opened at least one of the plurality of containers a pharmaceutical container with enclosed medication, corresponding to the prescription order associated with the label, and sending the at least one of the plurality of containers with the medication to the recipient of the prescription. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of discarding a container that cannot be opened. 3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of placing a literature pack in the opened container. 4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising the step of sealing the opened container. 5. The method according to claim 4, further comprising the step of transporting the at least one of the plurality of containers in at least a second direction subsequent to sealing the container. 6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of sealing the opened container. 7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of conveying the plurality of containers a predetermined amount in the at least first direction to a position where the container is opened. 8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising the step of sensing whether the at least one of the plurality of containers is in position for opening. 9. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step sensing whether the at least one of the containers is in position for opening. 10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of separating the label from the backing sheet prior to said placing step. 11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising the step of providing a vacuum to hold the label in place prior to placing the label on the at least one of the plurality of containers. 12. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of providing a vacuum to hold the label in place prior to placing the label on at least one of the plurality of containers. 13. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of placing the label on a first one of the plurality of containers substantially simultaneously while opening a second one of the plurality of containers having another label placed thereon. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the first plurality of rollers and second plurality of rollers rotate in concert in the first direction to convey at least one of the plurality of containers and plurality of labels. 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first plurality of rollers define an area through which the containers are conveyed. 16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the second plurality of rollers define an area through which the plurality of labels and the backing material are conveyed. 17. A method for filling a plurality of prescription orders, comprising the steps of: transporting in at least a first direction a plurality of containers by a first plurality of rollers; transporting in the first direction a plurality of labels by a second plurality of rollers, optionally disposed on a backing sheet; printing on a label for at least one of the plurality of containers, information corresponding to a recipient of a prescription order; securely placing a label on the at least one of the plurality of containers, one container at a time, when the at least one of the plurality of containers reach a predetermined position; opening the at least one of the plurality of containers; and placing in the opened at least one of the plurality of containers a pharmaceutical container with enclosed medication, corresponding to the prescription order associated with the label, and sending the at least one of the plurality of containers with the medication to the recipient of the prescription. 18. The method according to claim 17, further comprising the step of discarding a container that cannot be opened. 19. The method according to claim 17, further comprising the step of placing a literature pack in the opened container. 20. The method according to claim 17, further comprising the step of conveying the plurality of containers a predetermined amount in the at least first direction to a position where the container is opened. 21. The method according to claim 20, further comprising the step of sensing whether the at least one of the plurality of containers is in position for opening. 22. The method according to claim 17, further comprising the step sensing whether the at least one of the containers is in position for opening. 23. The method according to claim 17, further comprising the step of transporting the at least one of the plurality of containers in at least a second direction subsequent to sealing the container. 24. The method according to claim 17, further comprising the steps of separating the label from the backing sheet prior to said placing step, and providing a vacuum to hold the label in place prior to placing the label on the at least one of the plurality of containers. 25. The method according to claim 17, further comprising the step of placing the label on a first one of the plurality of containers substantially simultaneously while opening a second one of the plurality of containers having another label placed thereon. 26. The method according to claim 17, wherein at least one of the first plurality of rollers and second plurality of rollers rotate in concert in the first direction to convey at least one of the plurality of containers and plurality of labels. 27. The method according to claim 17, wherein the first plurality of rollers define an area through which the containers are conveyed. 28. The method according to claim 17, wherein the second plurality of rollers define an area through which the plurality of labels and the backing material are conveyed. 