A single use, disposable reservoir of low volume for use in conjunction with a spray gun for spray painting small areas, for example `spray out` cards for color matching a paint mix for spray painting a vehicle. The reservoir is in the form of a syringe body with a plunger having a sealing member slidable within the body for drawing paint into the body via an open end. The body has an aperture adjacent to a closed end and the plunger can be moved to position the sealing member between the aperture and closed end for releasing a partial vacuum created when the paint is drawn into the body and allow the paint to be withdrawn, in use, when the reservoir is connected to a spray gun without actuating the plunger. In other embodiments, the reservoir comprises a concertina-type body or a pipette body.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A fluid reservoir for a spray gun, the reservoir comprising a syringe body having a first, substantially closed end and a second, open end, the open end being connectable, in use, to a spray gun, and a plunger having a sealing member resident in the body and a shank passing through an opening in the first end operable to create at least a partial vacuum within the body for drawing fluid into the reservoir via the open end when disconnected from the spray gun, characterised in that means is provided for controlling the at least partial vacuum, wherein the means for controlling the at least partial vacuum comprises an aperture through a wall of the body proximate the first end of the body such that, in use, the scaling member can be moved away from the second, open end to a first position between the second, open end and the aperture to draw fluid into the reservoir, and to a second position between the aperture and the first, closed end to allow fluid to be withdrawn from the reservoir via the second, open end whereby, when the oven end of the reservoir is connected to the spray gun, fluid can be withdrawn from the reservoir via the open end for supply to the spray gun independently of an actuation force applied to the plunger externally of the reservoir. 2. A fluid reservoir as claimed in claim 1 wherein the means for controlling the at least partial vacuum comprises a passageway extending through the plunger from the sealing member within the body to a position externally of the body, and a releasable closure for opening/closing the passageway such that in use, the passageway is closed by the closure to allow fluid to be drawn into the body by movement of the sealing member away from the second, open end and is opened by releasing the closure to allow fluid to be withdrawn front the second, open end. 3. A fluid reservoir as claimed in claim 1 wherein the body is a collapsible concertina-type body of which the first, closed end constitutes the vacuum forming element such that fluid can be draw into the body by the partial vacuum created by movement of the closed end away from the open end, and the means for controlling the partial vacuum is provided by the collapsible body. 4. A fluid reservoir as claimed in claim 1 wherein the body is a pipette having a filler at the first, closed end providing the vacuum forming element for drawing fluid into the body, and valve means for controlling the partial vacuum to allow the fluid to be withdrawn from the body. 5. A fluid reservoir as claimed in claim 1 wherein the second, open end of the body is provided with a mounting adapted for releasably connecting the second, open end to a spray gun in use or a closure for sealing the reservoir. 6. A fluid reservoir as claimed in claim 5 wherein an adapter is provided for releasably attaching the mounting to a spray gun, in use. 7. A fluid reservoir as claimed in claim 1 wherein the reservoir has a volume of at least 100 ml. 8. A fluid reservoir as claimed in claim 1 wherein the reservoir is a single-use, disposable reservoir. 9. A fluid reservoir as claimed in claim 1 wherein the reservoir substantially prevents the escape of solvent vapour from a solution, or mixture, in use. 10. A fluid reservoir as claimed claim 1 wherein the body is substantially made of a plastics material. 11. A fluid reservoir as claimed in claim 10 wherein the body is substantially transparent or translucent or has a transparent or translucent window and is provided with a scale marking to indicate a volume of fluid within the body. 12. A spray gun comprising a fluid reservoir according to claim 1. 13. A spray gun according to claim 12 wherein the spray gun is a hand-held gravity feed or pressure feed spray gun. 14. A fluid reservoir as claimed in claim 1 wherein the sealing member slidably and sealably engages a wall of the body to divide the syringe body into two chambers, and movement of the plunger away from the second, open end towards the first end creates the at least partial vacuum in the body for drawing fluid into the reservoir. 15. A method of spraying a vehicle comprising the steps of: a) preparing a paint mix; b) forming an at least partial vacuum within a disposable reservoir of low volume and withdrawing a portion of the paint mix into the reservoir by moans of a vacuum forming element; c) attaching the reservoir to a spray gun; d) controlling the at least partial vacuum to allow the paint to be withdrawn from the reservoir without actuating the vacuum forming element to expel the paint and spraying a test card; e) comparing the test card with a vehicle to be spray painted; f) repeating steps (b) to (e) as necessary with adjustments to the paint mix and using a new disposable reservoir when preparing each test card until a colour match is obtained between the test card and the vehicle; g) charging the spray gun with the paint mix; and h) spraying the vehicle. 16. A method according to claim 15 wherein the spray gun has a detachable reservoir and the method further includes providing the detachable reservoir with a removable, disposable liner when charging the spray gun with paint mix in step (g). 