The invention is a computerized mobile robot with an onboard internet web server, and a capability of establishing a first connection to a remote web browser on the internet for robotic control purposes, and a capability of establishing a second short range bi-directional digital radio connection to one or more nearby computerized digital radio equipped devices external to the robot. The short-range bi-directional digital radio connection will typically have a maximum range of about 300 feet. In a preferred embodiment, this short-range wireless digital connection will use the 2.4 gHz band and digital protocols following the IEEE 802.11, 802.15, or other digital communications protocol. By employing the proper set of external short-range digital radio devices capable of interfacing with the robot (such as sensors, mechanical actuators, appliances, and the like), a remote user on the internet may direct the robot to move within range of the external devices, discover their functionality, and send and receive commands and data to the external devices through the CGI interface on the robot's onboard web server.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A mobile robot with an onboard web server, telecommunications means to link the onboard web server with the internet, said internet consisting of an interconnected system of networks that connects computers around the world via the TCP/IP protocol, and onboard telecommunications means to establish additional short-range bi-directional digital radio links with a plurality of external digital radio controlled devices: wherein the mobile robot, under control by commands sent over the internet, travels into the vicinity of one or more of the external digital radio controlled devices and establishes a direct bi-directional, short-range, digital radio link with the short-range bi-directional digital radio link controlled external device. 2. The robot of claim 1, in which the radio link from the robot to the external digital radio controlled device is used to power the external device, and the external device returns a digital radio signal to the robot. 3. The robot of claim 1, in which the external device is a radio frequency identification tag. 4. A mobile robot with an onboard web server, telecommunications means to link the onboard web server with the internet, said internet consisting of an interconnected system of networks that connects computers around the world via the TCP/IP protocol, and onboard telecommunications means to establish additional short-range bi-directional digital radio links with a plurality of non internet connected external digital radio controlled devices; wherein the mobile robot, under control by commands sent over the internet, travels into the vicinity of one or more of the external digital radio computer controlled devices and establishes a direct bi-directional, short-range, digital radio link with the short-range bi-directional digital radio link controlled external device. 5. The robot of claim 4, in which the radio link from the robot to the external digital radio controlled device is used to power the external device, and the external device returns a digital radio signal to the robot. 6. The robot of claim 4, in which the external device is a radio frequency identification tag. 7. A mobile robot with an onboard web server, telecommunications means to link the onboard web server with the internet, said internet consisting of an interconnected system of networks that connects computers around the world via the TCP/IP protocol, and onboard telecommunications means to establish additional short-range bi-directional digital radio links with a plurality of non internet connected external digital radio controlled devices: said devices selected from the group of memory caches and environmental sensors; wherein the mobile robot, under control by commands sent over the internet, travels into the vicinity of one or more of the external digital radio controlled devices and establishes a direct bi-directional, short-range, digital radio link with the short-range bi-directional digital radio link controlled external device. 8. The robot of claim 7, in which the radio link from the robot to the external digital radio controlled device is used to power the external device, and the external device returns a digital radio signal to the robot. 9. The robot of claim 7, in which the external device is a radio frequency identification tag. 10. A mobile robot with an onboard web server, telecommunications means to link the onboard web server with the internet, said internet consisting of an interconnected system of networks that connects computers around the world via the TCP/IP protocol, and onboard telecommunications means to establish additional short-range bi-directional digital radio links with a plurality of external digital radio controlled devices: wherein the mobile robot, under control by commands sent over the internet, travels into the vicinity of one or more of the external digital radio controlled devices and establishes a direct bi-directional, short-range, digital radio link with the short-range bi-directional digital radio link controlled external device; wherein said external device transmits a device identifier that enables the robot to determine the nature of said device or the services offered by said device. 11. The robot of claim 10, in which said robot passes said device identifier information to a remote controller on the internet, and automatically receives new commands or scripts for control of said device from said internet controller, allowing devices not previously known to the robot to be utilized. 12. The robot of claim 10, in which the radio link from the robot to the external digital radio controlled device is used to power the external device, and the external device returns a digital radio signal to the robot. 13. The robot of claim 10, in which the external device is a radio frequency identification tag. 