A break-away mounting system for a continuous-motion, high-speed position conveyor system is disclosed. A support cradle may be suspended from a conveyor belt such that the support cradle maintains a fixed position and orientation relative to at least one point on the conveyor belt without inducing appreciable stress on the conveyor belt, the support cradle, or the coupling between the conveyor belt and the support cradle. The mount may include a leading rotatable bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a first key attached to the conveyor belt, the rotatable bearing adapted to accommodate rotational forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. The mount may also include a slide bearing attached to the support cradle which may releasably engage a second key attached to the conveyor belt, the slide bearing adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method comprising: driving a conveyor belt continuously along a transport path having at least one bend; and suspending a support cradle from the conveyor belt such that the support cradle maintains a fixed position and orientation relative to at least one point on the conveyor belt without inducing appreciable stress on any one of the conveyor belt, the support cradle, and a coupling between the conveyor belt and the support cradle, wherein suspending a support cradle includes coupling a rotatable bearing of the support cradle to a first key attached to the conveyor belt, the rotatable bearing being adapted to accommodate rotational forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt, and wherein suspending a support cradle further includes coupling a slide bearing of the support cradle to a second key attached to the conveyor belt, the slide bearing being adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces applied to the support cradle by the conveyor belt. 2. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt; and a support cradle mounted on the conveyor belt via a first coupling adapted to accommodate rotational forces and a second coupling adapted to accommodate longitudinal forces, wherein the first coupling includes a rotatable bearing and a first dowel, the second coupling includes a slide bearing and a second dowel, and the dowels are rigidly mounted vertically on the conveyor belt. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the dowels are bisected by the conveyor belt to form pieces having at least two relief surfaces that do not contact the conveyor belt. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the relief surfaces angle away from the conveyor belt such that at the minimum radius of the conveyor belt the relief surfaces can not contact the conveyor belt. 5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the support cradle is adapted to decouple from the conveyor belt in a predetermined direction upon experiencing an impact greater that a predefined amount of force. 6. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt; at least one mounting location on the conveyor belt including at least two keys; and a support including at least a rotatable bearing and a slide bearing, each bearing adapted to engage either of the at least two keys, wherein the support may be mounted on the conveyor belt at the mounting location by engaging at least two keys with the bearings, wherein the bearings are operative to release from the at least two keys in response to a predetermined amount of force applied to the support. 7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the rotatable bearing is disposed as a lead bearing relative to the direction of the conveyor belt. 8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the at least two keys are rigidly attached to the conveyor belt so as to minimize a contact area of the at least two keys. 9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the at least two keys are rigidly attached to the conveyor belt such that a height of the conveyor belt is the same without the at least two keys attached. 10. An apparatus comprising: a conveyor belt; at least one mounting location on the conveyor belt including at least two keys; and a support including at least a rotatable bearing and a slide bearing, each bearing adapted to engage either of the at least two keys, wherein the support may be mounted on the conveyor belt at the mounting location by engaging at least two keys with the bearings, wherein the at least two keys are rigidly attached to the conveyor belt such that a height of the conveyor belt is the same without the at least two keys attached. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the rotatable bearing is disposed as a lead bearing relative to the direction of the conveyor belt. 12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the at least two keys are attached to the conveyor belt so as to minimize a contact area of the at least two keys. 