An ellipsometric apparatus provides two impinging focused probe beams directed to reflect off the sample along two mutually distinct and preferably substantially perpendicular directions. A rotating stage rotates sections of the wafer into the travel area defined by two linear axes of two perpendicularly oriented linear stages. As a result, an entire wafer is accessed for measurement with the linear stages having a travel range of only half the wafer diameter. The reduced linear travel results in a small travel envelope occupied by the wafer and, consequently, a small footprint of the apparatus. The use of two perpendicularly directed probe beams permits measurement of periodic structures along a preferred direction while permitting the use of a reduced motion stage.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for evaluating a sample, comprising the steps of: generating a polychromatic probe beam, splitting the polychromatic probe beam into first and second portions, whereby the first portion is directed to reflect off the sample in a first direction and the second portion is directed to reflect off the sample in a second direction; determining the change in polarization state of the first and second portions and generating output signals in response thereto; and evaluating the sample based on the output signals. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein: determining the change in polarization state includes using a common detector system to selectively monitor the first and second portions. 3. A method according to claim 1, wherein: splitting the polychromatic probe beam includes directing the second portion to reflect off the sample in a second direction that is perpendicular to the first direction. 4. A method for evaluating a sample, comprising the steps of: directing a first polychromatic probe beam to reflect off the sample in a first direction; directing a second polychromatic probe beam to reflect off the sample in a second direction; directing the reflected first and second probe beams along a common path; selectively monitoring the directed first and second probe beams and generating output signals in response thereto; and evaluating the sample based on the output signals. 5. A method as recited in claim 4, further comprising: generating said first and second polychromatic probe beams includes using a single light source. 6. A method according to claim 4, wherein: directing a second polychromatic probe beam to reflect off the sample in a second direction includes directing the second polychromatic probe beam to reflect off the sample in a second direction that is substantially perpendicular to the first direction. 7. A method according to claim 4, wherein: selectively monitoring the directed first and second probe beams includes using a single photodetector to selectively monitor the first and second probe beams. 8. A method for evaluating a sample, comprising: generating a polychromatic probe beam, selectively splitting the probe beam into first and second portions, whereby the first portion is directed to reflect off the sample in a first direction and the second portion is directed to reflect off the sample in a second direction; directing the reflected first and second portions along a common path; selectively monitoring the directed first and second portions and generating output signals in response thereto; and evaluating the sample based on the output signals. 9. A method for evaluating a sample, comprising: generating a polychromatic probe beam, selectively directing the probe beam along first and second paths, the first path directing the probe beam to reflect off the sample in a first direction and the second path directing the probe beam to reflect off the sample in a second direction; selectively determining the change in polarization state of the probe beam along either the first or second path and generating output signals in response thereto; and evaluating the sample based on the output signals. 10. A method according to claim 9, wherein: selectively determining the change in polarization state includes using a single photodetector to selectively monitor the first and second paths. 11. A method according to claim 9, wherein: selectively determining the change in polarization state includes using two physically separate photodetectors for monitoring the first and second paths respectively. 12. A method according to claim 9, wherein: selectively directing the probe beam includes using first and second mirrors, at least one of said first and second mirrors being moveable in order to selectively direct the probe beam. 13. A method according to claim 9, wherein: selectively determining the change in polarization state includes using a photodetector having a plurality of photodetecting elements generating a plurality of output signals corresponding to a plurality of wavelengths of the polychromatic probe beam. 14. A method according to claim 9, further comprising: selectively directing the probe beam from the first and second paths along a common path. 15. A method according to claim 9, further comprising; moving the sample with respect to the probe beam using a moveable stage assembly permitting both rotation and linear motion of the sample. 16. A method according to claim 9, wherein: selectively directing the probe beam along first and second paths includes selectively directing the probe beam to reflect off the sample in a second direction that is perpendicular to the first direction. 