Systems and methods for handling wafers include retrieving a first wafer from a wafer cassette using a first arm, transferring the first wafer from the first transfer arm to a second arm, delivering the first wafer for processing to a process chamber using the second arm, removing the first wafer from the process chamber using the first arm, and returning the first wafer to the cassette using the first arm. The systems and methods can include retrieving a first wafer from a wafer cassette using a first arm, delivering the first wafer for processing to a process chamber using the first arm, removing a processed wafer from the process chamber using a second arm, returning the processed wafer to the cassette using the second arm, and iteratively retrieving, delivering, removing and returning wafers from the cassette while alternating arms between iterations.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for handling wafers, the method comprising: extending a first arm from a first position for retrieving a first wafer from a storage position, returning the first arm to the first position, transferring the first wafer from the first arm to a second arm at the first position, rotating the second arm about an axis for delivering the first wafer to a processing position for processing to generate a processed wafer, rotating the first arm about the axis for removing the processed wafer from the processing position, rotating the first arm about the axis return the first arm to the first position, and, extending the first arm from the first position for returning the processed wafer to the storage position. 2. A method according to claim 1, where delivering includes delivering while extending the first arm from the first position for retrieving a next wafer from the storage position. 3. A method according to claim 2, where the storage position is in a wafer cassette and retrieving includes indexing the cassette. 4. A method according to claim 1, further including processing the first wafer in a process chamber. 5. A method according to claim 4, where processing includes performing at least one of: photoresist, dry etch, ion implantation, chemical deposition, and diffusion. 6. A method according to claim 5, where processing includes at least one of orienting the next wafer and transferring the next wafer from the first arm to the second arm. 7. A method according to claim 1, where the storage position is in a wafer cassette and retrieving includes Indexing the cassette. 8. A method according to claim 1 where the storage position is in a wafer cassette and returning the processed wafer to the cassette includes indexing the cassette. 9. A method according to claim 1, further including orienting the first wafer prior to transferring the first wafer. 10. A method according to claim 1, where returning the processed wafer to the storage position includes retrieving a next wafer. 11. A method according to claim 10, where returning the processed wafer to the storage position includes rotating the second arm to a standby position. 12. A method according to claim 1, where transferring includes aligning the first arm and the second arm to facilitate the transfer of the first wafer from the first arm to the second arm. 13. A method according to claim 1, where transferring includes: controlling an orienter to lift the first wafer from the first arm, rotating the second arm from a standby position to the first position, and, controlling the orienter to lower the first wafer onto the second arm. 14. A method for handling wafers, the method comprising: retrieving a first wafer from a wafer cassette using a first arm, lifting the first wafer from the first arm, rotating a second arm about an axis from a standby position to a position aligned with the, flint arm, lowering the first wafer onto the second arm far transferring the first wafer from the first arm to the second arm, delivering the first wafer for processing by rotating the second arm about the axis to a processing position while retrieving a distinct next wafer from the wafer cassette using the first arm, processing the first wafer to generate a processed wafer, while transferring the next wafer from the first arm to the second arm, removing the processed wafer from processing by rotating the first arm about the axis to the processing position, and, delivering the next wafer for processing using the second arm while returning the processed wafer to the cassette using the first arm. 15. A method according to claim 14, further including retrieving a distinct next wafer from the cassette using the first arm while processing the next wafer, and iteratively performing the processing, removing, and delivering. 16. A method according to claim 14, where processing includes performing at least one of: photoresist, dry etch, ion implantation, chemical deposition, and diffusion. 17. A method according to claim 14, where transferring includes controlling an orienter to orient the first wafer for processing between lifting the first wafer from the first arm and lowering the first wafer onto the second arm. 18. A method according to claim 14, where retrieving includes indexing the cassette. 19. A method for handling wafers, the method comprising: retrieving a next wafer from a selected cassette using a first arm, transferring the next wafer to a second arm at a transfer position, rotating the first and second arms about a common axis from the transfer position to a processing position, removing a processed wafer from a process system at the processing position using the first arm, delivering the next wafer to the process system using the second arm, and, returning the processed wafer to the selected cassette using the first arm. 20. A method according to claim 19, further including iteratively returning to retrieving, wherein: returning comprises rotating the first arm about the axis to the transfer position and rotating the second arm about the axis to a standby position, and, transferring comprises rotating the second arm to the transfer position. 21. A method according to claim 19, where transferring includes using an orienter to transfer the next wafer. 22. A method according to claim 19, further including orienting the processed wafer before returning. 23. A method according to claim 19, further including selecting a cassette prior to retrieving. 24. A method according to claim 19, further including determining whether unprocessed wafers remain in the selected cassette. 25. A method according to claim 24, including when no unprocessed wafers remain in the selected cassette, performing at least one of: load lock processing associated with the selected cassette, and selecting a next cassette and iteratively returning to retrieving. 26. A method for handling wafers, the method comprising retrieving a next wafer from a storage position using a first arm, removing a processed wafer from processing using a second arm, delivering the next wafer for processing using the first arm, returning the processed wafer to the storage position using the second arm, and iteratively performing the retrieving, removing, delivering and returning while alternating using the first arm and the second arm between iterations. 27. A method according to claim 26, where returning includes returning while processing the next wafer in a process chamber. 28. A method according to claim 27, where processing includes performing at least one of: photoresist, dry etch, ion implantation, chemical deposition, and diffusion. 29. A method according to claim 26, further including orienting the next wafer prior to delivering the next wafer. 30. A method according to claim 26, where the storage position is in a wafer cassette and retrieving includes indexing the cassette. 31. A method according to claim 26, where the storage position is in a wafer cassette and returning the processed wafer to the cassette includes indexing the cassette. 32. A method according to claim 26, where returning the processed wafer to the storage position using the second arm includes placing the first arm in a standby position. 33. A method for handling wafers, the method comprising: retrieving a first wafer from a wafer cassette using a first arm while removing a processed wafer from processing using a second arm, delivering the first wafer for processing, returning the processed wafer to the wafer cassette while processing the first wafer to generate a processed wafer, retrieving a next wafer from the wafer cassette using the second arm while removing the processed wafer from processing rising the first arm, delivering the next wafer for processing, returning the processed wafer to the wafer cassette while processing the next wafer to generate a next processed wafer, and iteratively performing the retrieving, delivering and returning while alternating using the first arm and the second arm between iterations. 34. A method according to claim 33, further including orienting the first wafer prior to delivering the first wafer, and orienting the next wafer prior to delivering the next wafer. 35. A method according to claim 33, wherein retrieving includes indexing the cassette. 36. A method according to claim 33, where delivering the first wafer includes processing the first wafer in a process chamber, and delivering the next wafer includes processing the next wafer in a process chamber. 37. A method according to claim 36, where processing includes performing at least one of: photoresist, dry etch, ion implantation, chemical deposition, and diffusion. 