A system and method for creating a derivative view from graphical data which is derived from native application data. The native application data may be extracted from a graphical application, such as a CAD application, converted to an intermediate or derivative format, and a derivative view of the graphic information produced by the original, native application is provided from the intermediate format.
Claims We claim: 1. A method for creating a graphic view of a part, comprising: extracting graphical data in a native application format, the graphical data includes a plurality of parts and includes an assembly including a hierarchical relationship for said plurality of parts; converting said graphical data from the native application format to a derivative graphical data format, wherein said converting includes providing a binary derivative graphical file for each said part; receiving an instruction to provide a derivative view; and creating a derivative view of at least a portion of the graphical data from the derivative graphical data format. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the native application format is included in a data store for a graphical application. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the native application format is a commonly understood export file from a native application. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein said graphical data is CAD data. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein said step of converting includes providing a hierarchical data file. 6. The method of claim 5 wherein said hierarchical data file is in XML format. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the derivative view is a three-dimensional view. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein the derivative view is a two-dimensional view. 9. A method for creating a graphic view of a part, comprising: extracting graphical data in a native application format; converting said graphical data from the native application format to a derivative graphical data format; receiving an instruction to provide a derivative view; and creating a derivative view of at least a portion of the graphical data from the derivative graphical data format; wherein said step of creating includes providing a binary derivative graphic file. 10. The method of claim 9 wherein the derivative view is a composite of a plurality of binary part files. 11. The method of claim 10 wherein said receiving step includes receiving a modified hierarchical data structure of parts. 12. A method for creating a graphic view of a part, comprising: extracting graphical data in a native application format; converting said graphical data from the native application format to a derivative graphical data format; receiving an instruction to provide a derivative view; and creating a derivative view of at least a portion of the graphical data from the derivative graphical data format; wherein the derivative view is an assembly view constructed of a plurality of binary derivative part files. 13. A method for creating an assembly visualization, comprising: extracting graphical data from a CAD system, said graphical data including rendering data and a hierarchical structure; for each part in the assembly, creating a binary data representation of the part; receiving a new hierarchical structure for a new rendering view; and creating a binary merge file of a rendering the new assembly based on said part assemblies and said new hierarchical structure. 