A manual-mode operating system for a robot provided with an end-effector. The manual-mode operating system includes a display section including a screen for displaying an image of an end-effector; a first input section for an input of coordinate system data on the screen of the display section, displaying the image of the end-effector, the coordinate system data designating a manual-mode coordinate system used for describing an orientation of the end-effector; a coordinate system setting section for setting the manual-mode coordinate system at a spatial position corresponding to an input position on the screen of the display section, based on the coordinate system data input through the first input section; a second input section for an input of orientation data using the manual-mode coordinate system set through the coordinate system setting section, the orientation data instructing the orientation of the end-effector; and an orientation adjusting section for adjusting the orientation of the end-effector, based on the orientation data input through the second input section.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A manual-mode operating system for a robot provided with an end-effector, comprising: a display section including a screen for displaying an image of an end-effector; a first input section for an input of coordinate system data on said screen of said display section, displaying said image of said end-effector, said coordinate system data designating a manual-mode coordinate system used for describing an orientation of said end-effector; a coordinate system setting section for setting said manual-mode coordinate system at a spatial position corresponding to an input position on said screen of said display section, based on said coordinate system data input through said first input section; a second input section for an input of orientation data using said manual-mode coordinate system set through said coordinate system setting section, said orientation data instructing said orientation of said end-effector; an orientation adjusting section for adjusting said orientation of said end-effector, based on said orientation data input through said second input section; and a teaching unit connected to said orientation adjusting section, wherein said display section, said first input section and said second input section are provided in said teaching unit. 2. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 1, comprising a robot mechanism including said end-effector, wherein said orientation adjusting section controls an actual motion of said robot mechanism in a manual mode, to adjust an actual orientation of said end-effector, based on said orientation data. 3. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 2, comprising a robot controller for controlling a motion of said robot mechanism, wherein said orientation adjusting section is provided in said robot controller. 4. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 3, wherein said coordinate system setting section is provided in said robot controller. 5. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said coordinate system setting section is provided in said teaching unit. 6. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 1, comprising a data processor connected to said orientation adjusting section, wherein said coordinate system setting section is provided in said data processor. 7. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 1, comprising a data processor provided with said orientation adjusting section, wherein said orientation adjusting section adjusts said orientation of said end-effector represented as said image displayed on said screen of said display section, based on said orientation data. 8. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said display section displays said manual-mode coordinate system, set through said coordinate system setting section, on said screen. 9. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said display section displays a shifting state of said end-effector during a period when said orientation is adjusted by said orientation adjusting section. 10. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 1, further comprising a storage section for storing working environment data including shape data of said end-effector, wherein said display section acquires said working environment data from said storage section and displays an image of a working environment including said image of said end-effector on said screen. 11. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said coordinate system data, input through said first input section, includes origin coordinate data of said manual-mode coordinate system, and wherein said coordinate system setting section sets said manual-mode coordinate system, including a coordinate axis parallel to a coordinate axis of another coordinate system previously set for describing position and orientation of the robot, based on said origin coordinate data input through said first input section. 12. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said coordinate system data, input through said first input section, includes data of a geometrical image implying an input position on said screen of said display section, and wherein said coordinate system setting section sets said manual-mode coordinate system so as to coincide with a coordinate system previously set in association with said geometrical image, based on said data of said geometrical image input through said first input section. 13. A manual-mode operating system, as set forth in claim 1, wherein said end-effector is provide with a movable portion and wherein, when said coordinate system data designating said manual-mode coordinate system is input on an image of said movable portion displayed on said screen of said display section, said coordinate system setting section changes said coordinate system data in correspondence to an actual motion of said movable portion and sets said manual-mode coordinate system, based on said coordinate system data as changed. 