An apparatus, system, and method are disclosed for quick access of stored removable storage media. The apparatus includes an automated data storage library, a communications processor, and a media interface module. The automated data storage library has a plurality of storage cells, each storage cell having a media interface module for communicating with removable storage media. The communication processor module communicates with the media interface module of each storage cell. A grid bus couples the media interface module and the communication processor module. The system includes a storage area network coupling multiple hosts to at least one automated data storage library. The method includes communicating with the removable storage media, communicating with the media interface modules, and coupling the media interface modules to the communication processor module.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for communicating with stored removable storage media, the apparatus comprising: an automated data storage library having a plurality of storage cells configured to engage removable storage media, each storage cell having a media interface module configured to communicate with the removable storage media, wherein the removable storage media is read and written with a drive disposed outside of the storage cells; a communication processor module configured to communicate with the media interface module of each storage cell; and a communications network configured to couple the media interface modules and the communication processor module, wherein each media interface module comprises a radio frequency (RF) module coupled to the communications network and configured to communicate wirelessly with a second RF module in each removable storage media, the second RF module identifying the removable storage media without mounting the removable storage media in the drive. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the media interface module comprises a physical connection configured to interface with a second physical connection of the removable storage media. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the physical connection further comprises an RS-232 standard interface connection. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the communications network further comprises a grid bus. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the communication processor is further configured to selectively transmit and receive unique identifying information for each removable storage media. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the media interface module is further configured to monitor the communications network and transmit an acknowledgement to the communication processor module in response to received unique identifying information. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the communication processor module is further configured to transmit a data packet comprising ten bits, wherein a first bit signals a start bit, a second bit specifies if the data packet is an address, and ninth and tenth bits signal an end of the data packet. 8. A system for communicating with stored removable storage media, the system comprising: an automated data storage library; a host configured to communicate a data access request to the data storage library; a first accessor and a second accessor within the data storage library, the first and second accessors configured to facilitate the data access request; the automated storage library having a plurality of storage cells configured to engage removable storage media, each storage cell having a media interface module configured to communicate with the removable storage media, wherein the removable storage media is read and written with a drive disposed outside of the storage cells; a communication processor module configured to communicate with the media interface module of each storage cell; and a communications network configured to couple the media interface modules and the communication processor module, wherein each media interface module comprises a RF module coupled to the communications network and configured to communicate wirelessly with a second RF module in each removable storage media, the second RF module identifying the removable storage media without mounting the removable storage media in the drive. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the media interface module comprises a physical connection configured to interface with a second physical connection of the removable storage media. 10. The system of claim 8, wherein the physical connection further comprises an Electronic Industries Alliance (EIA) 232 standard interface connection. 11. The system of claim 8, wherein the communications network further comprises a grid bus. 12. The system of claim 8, wherein the communication processor is further configured to selectively transmit and receive unique identifying information for each removable storage media. 13. The system of claim 8, wherein the media interface module is further configured to monitor the communications network and transmit an acknowledgement to the communication processor module in response to received unique identifying information. 14. The system of claim 8, wherein the communication processor module is further configured to transmit a data packet comprising ten bits, wherein a first bit signals a start bit, a second bit specifies if the data packet is an address, and ninth and tenth bits signal an end of the data packet. 15. A computer readable storage medium tangibly embodying a program of machine-readable instructions executable by a digital processing apparatus to perform operations to communicate with stored removable storage media, the operations comprising: communicate with removable storage media, wherein the removable storage media is read and written with a drive disposed outside of a plurality of storage cells; communicate with a plurality of media interface modules, each media interface module coupled to a storage cell; and couple the media interface modules and a communication processor module, wherein each media interface module comprises a RF module coupled to a communications network and configured to communicate wirelessly with a second RF module in each removable storage media, the second RF module identifying the removable storage media without mounting the removable storage media in the drive. 16. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further comprise operations to interface a first physical connection with a second physical connection of the removable storage media. 17. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further comprise operations to wirelessly couple the media interface module to the communications network. 18. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further comprise operations to selectively transmit and receive unique identifying information for each removable storage media. 19. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further comprise operations to monitor the communications network and transmit an acknowledgement to the communication processor module in response to received unique identifying information. 20. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the communication processor module is further configured to transmit a data packet comprising ten bits, wherein a first bit signals a start bit, a second bit specifies if the data packet is an address, and ninth and tenth bits signal an end of the data packet. 