An inkjet printhead module is provided having an elongate support member longitudinally supporting a plurality of printhead integrated circuits via respective ink distribution members. The support member has a plurality of channels for carrying and delivering ink to inkjet nozzles of the printhead integrated circuits via a plurality of apertures. The ink distribution members each incorporate a laminated stack of layers for distributing the ink from the support member apertures to the respective printhead integrated circuit via distribution apertures of successively smaller diameter.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An inkjet printhead module comprising an elongate support member longitudinally supporting a plurality of printhead integrated circuits via respective ink distribution members, wherein the support member has a plurality of channels for carrying and delivering ink to inkjet nozzles of the printhead integrated circuits via a plurality of apertures, and the ink distribution members each incorporate a laminated stack of layers for distributing the ink from the support member apertures to the respective printhead integrated circuit via distribution apertures, the distribution apertures of each successive layer of the stack from the support member to the nozzles having a successively smaller diameter. 2. An inkjet printhead module according to claim 1, wherein the printhead integrated circuits, the support member and the ink distribution members are formed as a unitary arrangement with electrical connectors for connecting electrical signals to the printhead integrated circuits. 3. An inkjet printhead module according to claim 2, wherein each laminated stack comprises an upper layer upon which the associated printhead integrated circuit is mounted, a middle layer, and a lower layer which is attached to the support member. 4. An inkjet printhead module according to claim 3, wherein: the lower layer includes first distribution apertures arranged to align with respective ones of the support member apertures and first distribution channels associated with respective ones of the first distribution apertures, the first distribution apertures having substantially the same diameter as the support member apertures; the middle layer includes second distribution apertures arranged to align with the first distribution channels of the lower layer, the second distribution apertures having a smaller diameter than the first distribution apertures; the upper layer includes second distribution channels arranged to communicate with the second distribution apertures of the middle layer and third distribution apertures associated with the second distribution channels, the third distribution apertures having a smaller diameter than the second distribution apertures. 5. An inkjet printhead module according to claim 4, wherein the printhead integrated circuits include nozzle supply apertures arranged to align with the third distribution apertures of the upper layer of the respective laminated stack and to supply ink to respective ones of the nozzles, the nozzle supply apertures having substantially the same diameter as the third distribution apertures. 6. An inkjet printhead module according to claim 5, wherein the support member apertures have a diameter of the order of millimeters and the nozzle supply apertures have a diameter of the order of micrometers. 7. An inkjet printhead module according to claim 1, wherein each support member channel is arranged to carry a different ink. 8. An inkjet printhead module according to claim 1, wherein the ink distribution members are attached to the support member by an adhesive material. 9. An inkjet printhead module according to claim 8, wherein the adhesive material is deposited to form a gasket which surrounds the support member apertures and corresponding distribution apertures of the ink distribution members so as to form a seal between the respective apertures. 10. An inkjet printhead module according to claim 9, wherein the support member apertures extend in a row across the support member with respect to the longitudinal direction of the support member, the adhesive material being deposited on either side of the row. 11. An inkjet printhead module according to claim 10, wherein the adhesive material is a curable resin. 