A working robot, which is able to perform a required operation by locating a tool on a working position of a moving object, comprises a robot body moving with the object according to the movement of the object with more than one degree of freedom; an actuator mounted on a free end of the robot body and including a tool mounting unit, on which the tool is mounted, connected by a passive joint which reacts passively to small displacement of the object for locating the tool on the working position; and a control device for controlling the robot body, the actuator, and the tool.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A working robot comprising: a robot body for tracking a moving object of working; an actuator mounted on a free end of the robot body according to a displacement form and direction of said moving object of working and having a tool mounting unit on which a tool may be mounted, said actuator moving the tool mounting unit according to a displacement form and direction of said moving object of working so as to minimize a tracking error of the robot body; and a control device for controlling the robot body, the actuator, and the tool. 2. The working robot of claim 1, wherein the actuator includes: a frame mounted at the free end of the robot body; and a driving device on which the tool mounting unit is mounted, said driving device being installed at the frame according to a displacement form and direction of said moving object of working. 3. The working robot of claim 2, wherein the actuator includes the frame in which a guide for driving the driving device is installed. 4. The working robot of claim 1, further comprising a location detection means for detecting a working position of the tool so as to control a working position of the tool. 5. The working robot of claim 4, wherein the location detection means detects a location of the tool by a camera, and when a distance from the object of working is less than a predetermined value, the location of the tool is detected by an external load detected by the passive joint. 6. The working robot of claim 1, wherein a velocity of the robot body is controlled by being synchronized with a moving velocity of the working object, and a location of the actuator is controlled so as to locate the tool. 7. The working robot of claim 1, wherein the tool mounting unit is connectedly mounted by a passive joint which passively responds to a small displacement generated by the working object. 8. The working robot of claim 7, wherein the passive joint responds to the small displacement by including an elastic member and a damping member for restoring a location of the tool and absorbing shocks when the tool is in contact with the working object. 9. The working robot of claim 8, wherein the passive joint is fixed to the driving device and includes: a frame having a guide along which the tool mounting unit moves; and an elastic member and a damping member for restoring a location of the tool mounting unit and absorbing shocks of the tool mounting unit. 10. An actuator for a working robot comprising: a frame mounted at a free end of a working robot which tracks a moving object of working; a tool mounting unit installed at the frame according to a displacement form and direction of said moving object of working for mounting a tool for an operation; and a driving device on which the tool mounting unit is mounted for moving the tool mounting unit, said driving device being installed according to a displacement form and direction of said moving object of working. 11. The actuator of claim 10, wherein the actuator includes the frame in which a guide for moving the driving device is installed. 12. The actuator of claim 10, wherein the tool mounting unit is connectedly installed by a passive joint which passively responds to a small displacement from the object of working. 13. The actuator of claim 12, wherein the passive joint responds to the small displacement by including an elastic member and a damping member for restoring a location of the tool and absorbing shocks when the tool is in contact with the object of working. 14. The actuator of claim 12, wherein the passive joint is fixed to the driving device and includes: a frame having a guide along which the tool mounting unit moves; and an elastic member and a damping member for restoring a location of the tool mounting unit and absorbing shocks of the tool mounting unit. 15. The actuator of claim 10, further comprising a location detection means for detecting a working position of the tool so as to control a working position of the tool. 16. The working robot of claim 15, wherein the location detection means detects a location of the tool by a camera and when a distance from the object of working is less than a predetermined value, the location of the tool is detected by an external load detected by the passive joint. 17. A method for controlling a working robot, wherein a velocity of a robot body is controlled by being synchronized with a moving velocity of a moving object of working, an actuator including a tool mounting unit is mounted at a free end of the robot body according to a displacement form and direction of said moving object of working, the actuator is controlled so that the tool mounting unit is located according to a displacement form and direction of said moving object of working so as to minimize a tracking error of the robot body, and the robot body and the actuator are moved simultaneously. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein a location of the tool is detected by a camera and when the tool approaches to a constant distance of the object of working, the location of the tool is detected by a small displacement applied to the tool by the object of working, thereby controlling a location of the tool. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the location of the tool changes in accordance with a small displacement generated by a contact between the tool and the object of working. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein an elastic member and a damping member are used to restore the location of the tool and absorb shocks generated at the time when the tool is in contact with the object of working. 