A printhead assembly is provided comprising at least one printhead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits. The assembly further comprises a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors arranged to provide power from a power supply to the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector, and a casing comprising a support frame on which the at least one printhead module and a mounting element are removably held, the mounting element having formed therein a plurality of recessed channels for receiving and removably mounting individual ones of the plurality of electrical conductors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A printhead assembly, comprising: at least one printead module comprising at least two printhead integrated circuits, each of which has nozzles formed therein for delivering printing fluid onto the surface of print media, a support member supporting and carrying the printing fluid for the at least two printhead integrated circuits, and an electrical connector for connecting electrical signals to the at least two printhead integrated circuits; a plurality of longitudinally extending electrical conductors arranged to provide power from a power supply to the at least two printhead integrated circuits via the electrical connector; a casing comprising a support frame on which the at least one printhead module and at least one mounting element are removably held, the at least one mounting element having formed therein a plurality of recessed channels for receiving and removably mounting individual ones of the plurality of electrical conductors; and a drive circuitry unit for removable mounting to the mounting element to control the operation of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the drive circuitry unit having contacts for electrical connection to the electrical connector, input contacts for receiving print data from an external source or an adjacent drive circuitry unit controlling the printhead integrated circuits of an adjacent printhead module, and at least one print engine controller integrated circuit for processing the print data applicable to a predetermined number of the at least two printhead integrated circuits; wherein the drive circuitry unit is selected from a range of drive circuitry units, each having a different number of print engine controller integrated circuits such that the ratio of print engine controller integrated circuits to printhead integrated circuits can be varied to change the print speed of the printhead assembly. 2. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein the power carried by the plurality of electrical conductors is also delivered to the drive circuitry unit via the electrical connector. 3. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the at least one printhead module is formed as a unitary arrangement of the at least two printhead integrated circuits, the support member, the electrical connector, and at least one fluid distribution member mounting the at least two printhead integrated circuits to she support member; and the support member has at least one longitudinally extending channel for carrying the printing fluid for the printhead integrated circuits and includes a plurality of apertures extending through a wall of the support member arranged so as to direct the printing fluid front the at least one channel to associated nozzles in both, or if more than two, all of the printhead integrated circuits by way of respective ones of the fluid distribution members. 4. A printhead assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a pressure plate wherein the electrical connector has a plurality of conductor portions corresponding to each of the plurality of electrical conductors, and the plate loads each of the conductor portions against the plurality of electrical conductors. 5. A printhead assembly according to claim 4, wherein the pressure plate is removably mounted to the casing by the at least one mounting element. 6. A printhead assembly according to claim 5, wherein the pressure plate includes a non-conductive portion which urges the electrical connector against the plurality of electrical conductors. 7. A printhead assembly according to claim 6, wherein the non-conductive portion is formed of a resilient material. 