A system for conferring interactivity on a pre-printed image containing text, the image having been scanned and had a position-coding pattern printed thereon, the position-coding pattern identifying a plurality of absolute positions and an impression identity for the image, the system comprising a computer system configured for: (i) receiving association data indicating an association between the impression identity, the plurality of absolute positions and a scanned image; (ii) performing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the scanned image to convert text images into computer text; (iii) generating an input description for the scanned image, the input description describing words of computer text and zones of corresponding text images in the scanned image; and (iv) storing a page description comprising the input description and the scanned image, the page description being indexed with the impression identity, wherein the page description is retrievable so as to confer interactivity on the image.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A system for conferring interactivity on a sheet having on a surface thereof a pre-printed image containing text, said system comprising a computer system configured for: (i) scanning said pre-printed image on said sheet to form a scanned image; (ii) printing a position-coding pattern on the sheet, said position-coding pattern identifying a plurality of absolute positions and an impression identity for the scanned image; (iii) receiving association data indicating an association between the impression identity, the plurality of absolute positions and the scanned image; (iv) performing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) on the scanned image to convert the text into computer text; (v) generating an input description for said scanned image, said input description describing words of computer text and zones of corresponding text in the scanned image; and (vi) storing a page description comprising said input description and said scanned image, said page description being indexed with said impression identity, wherein said page description is retrievable so as to confer interactivity on the image. 2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a scanner for scanning the pre-printed image. 3. The system of claim 2, wherein said scanner comprises a printhead for printing the position-coding pattern and a processor for generating the association data. 4. The system of claim 1, further comprising an optically imaging sensing device configured for: interacting with the pre-printed image; reading at least part of the position-coding pattern; generating interaction data identifying the impression identity and a position of the sensing device relative to the surface; and communicating the interaction data to the computer system. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein said computer system is further configured for: (vii) receiving interaction data from an optically imaging sensing device interacting with a portion of text contained in the pre-printed image, said interaction data identifying the impression identity and a position of the sensing device relative to the surface; and (viii) retrieving the page description using the impression identity. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said computer system is further configured for: identifying a search query using said retrieved page description and the position of the sensing device, said search query including one or more keywords contained in said portion of text; generating a request URI using said search query; and sending the request URI, or search results obtained using the request URI, to a user. 7. The system of claim 5, wherein said computer system is further configured for: identifying computer text corresponding to said portion of text using the page description and the position of the sensing device; and copying the identified computer text to a clipboard. 