The present invention provides a system that enables the use of electrophoretic resists in the microfabrication industry for the production of microelectronic devices and is of sufficiently high quality to be used as a replacement for, or supplement to, current photoresist deposition technology. This system enables the application of electrophoretic resists in automated equipment that meets the standards for cleanliness and production throughput desired by the microelectronic fabrication industry. The system, apparatus and method, for providing electrophoretic resist ("EPR") layers on microelectronic workpieces for the microfabrication of microelectronic devices comprises a deposition station for receiving a microelectronic workpiece and depositing a layer of electrophoretic photoresist (EPR) thereon, a workpiece handling apparatus, and a control unit coupled to the workpiece handling apparatus and the deposition station for coordinating the processing of the workpiece in accordance with a predetermined sequence and set of processing parameters.
Claims We claim: 1. A reactor for depositing electrophoretic material onto a workpiece, comprising: a head having a workpiece holder, the workpiece holder having a support member and a plurality of electrical contacts projecting inwardly from the support member for providing an electrical current to the workpiece, the workpiece holder being configured to hold the workpiece at least substantially horizontal in a processing position; and a reactor base including an overflow cup; a processing cup in the overflow cup, the processing cup having an inlet coupled to a supply conduit for an electrophoretic emulsion (EPE) and a weir defining a processing zone; a gas control system in the processing cup, the gas control system being configured to inhibit bubbles from residing on the workpiece in the processing position; and an annular electrode in the processing cup, wherein the gas control system is configured to prevent bubbles at the electrode from flowing to the processing zone, and wherein the gas control system comprises an annular bubble trap extending around an interior portion of the processing cup and protecting radially inwardly above the electrode. 2. The reactor of claim 1 wherein the reactor base further comprises a reservoir below the overflow cup, a thermal element in the reservoir, and a drainage passage between the overflow cup and the reservoir through which the EPE can flow downward. 3. The reactor of claim 1 further comprising an ultrafilter configured to separate the EPE into a permeate solution and a concentrated EPE. 4. The reactor of claim 1 wherein the head further comprises a rotor to rotate the workpiece holder. 5. The reactor of claim 1 wherein the annular bubble trap has a ledge extending around the interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inwardly above the electrode, and the gas control system further comprises a vent through the processing cup located under a portion of the ledge through which bubbles can flow out of the processing cup before reaching the processing zone, and wherein the head further comprises a rotor to rotate the workpiece holder. 6. The reactor of claim 5 wherein the ledge has a lower surface that projects radially inwardly and downwardly from the processing cup. 7. The reactor of claim 1 wherein the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a flow component of the EPE upwardly toward a central location of the processing zone. 8. The reactor of claim 1 wherein: the annular electrode has a vertically oriented side wall and an opening aligned with the processing zone through which the EPE can flow; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode. 9. The reactor of claim 1 wherein: the annular electrode has a vertically oriented side wall and an opening aligned with the processing zone through which the EPE can flow; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE fluid toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE fluid upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode, the bubble trap comprises a ledge extending around an interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inward above the electrode, and the bubble trap comprises a vent through the processing cup located under the ledge. 10. A reactor for depositing electrophoretic material onto a workpiece having a first diameter, comprising: a head having a workpiece holder, the workpiece holder having a support member and a plurality of electrical contacts projecting inwardly from the support member for providing an electrical current to the workpiece, the workpiece holder being configured to hold the workpiece at least substantially horizontal in a processing position; and a reactor base including a reservoir for containing an electrophoretic emulsion (EPE); a thermal element in the reservoir for maintaining the EPE at a desired temperature; a reactor vessel above the reservoir, the reactor vessel comprising an overflow cup; a processing cup in the overflow cup, the processing cup having an inlet coupled to a supply conduit for an electrophoretic emulsion and a weir having a diameter larger than the first diameter of the workpiece to define a processing zone for a single-workpiece oriented at least substantially horizontal; an annular electrode in the processing cup; and a gas control system configured to prevent bubbles at the electrode from flowing to the processing zone, wherein the gas control system comprises an annular bubble trap extending around an interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inwardly above the electrode; and a filter in fluid communication with EPE flowing through the reactor vessel and/or the reservoir, the filter being configured to separate the EPE into a permeate solution and a concentrated EPE solution. 11. The reactor of claim 10 further comprising an in-situ ancillary processing assembly above the overflow cup, the in-situ processing assembly having a nozzle to direct a flow of an ancillary processing fluid different than the EPE radially inward and a collector to catch spent ancillary processing fluid above the weir. 12. The reactor of claim 10 wherein the head further comprises a rotor to rotate the workpiece holder. 13. The reactor of claim 10 wherein the gas control system comprises a ledge extending around the interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inwardly above the electrode, and a vent through the processing cup located under a portion of the ledge through which bubbles can flow out of the processing cup before reaching the processing zone, and wherein the head further comprises a rotor to rotate the workpiece holder. 14. The reactor of claim 13 wherein the ledge has a lower surface that projects radially inwardly and downwardly from the processing cup. 15. The reactor of claim 10 wherein the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a flow component of the EPE upwardly toward a central location of the processing zone. 16. The reactor of claim 10 wherein: the annular electrode has a vertically oriented side wall and an opening aligned with the processing zone through which the EPE can flow; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode. 17. The reactor of claim 10 wherein: the annular electrode has a vertically oriented side wall and an opening aligned with the processing zone through which the EPE can flow; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE fluid toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE fluid upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode, and the annular bubble trap has a ledge extending around an interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inward above the electrode, and the gas control system further comprises a vent through the processing cup located under the ledge. 18. A reactor for depositing electrophoretic material onto a workpiece, comprising: a head having a workpiece holder, the workpiece holder having a support member and a plurality of electrical contacts projecting inwardly from the support member for providing an electrical current to the workpiece, the workpiece holder being configured to hold the workpiece at least substantially horizontal in a processing position; and a reactor base including an overflow cup; a processing cup in the overflow cup, the processing cup having an inlet coupled to a supply conduit for an electrophoretic emulsion (EPE) and a weir defining a processing zone; a gas control system in the processing cup, the gas control system being configured to inhibit bubbles from residing on the workpiece in the processing position; an annular electrode in the processing cup, wherein the gas control system is configured to prevent bubbles at the electrode from flowing to the processing zone, and wherein the gas control system comprises an annular bubble trap extending around an interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inwardly above the electrode; and an in-situ ancillary processing assembly above the overflow cup, the in-situ processing assembly having a nozzle to direct a flow of an ancillary processing fluid different than the EPE fluid radially inward and a collector to catch spent ancillary processing fluid above the weir. 19. The reactor of claim 18 wherein the reactor base further comprises a reservoir below the overflow cup, a thermal element in the reservoir, and a drainage passage between the overflow cup and the reservoir through which the EPE can flow downward. 20. The reactor of claim 18 further comprising an ultrafilter configured to separate an EPE into a permeate solution and a concentrated EPE. 21. The reactor of claim 18 wherein the annular bubble trap comprises a ledge extending around the interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inwardly above the electrode, and the gas control system further comprises a vent through the processing cup located under a portion of the ledge through which bubbles can flow out of the processing cup before reaching the processing zone. 22. The reactor of claim 21 wherein the ledge has a lower surface that projects radially inwardly and downwardly from the processing cup, and wherein the head further comprises a rotor to rotate the workpiece holder. 23. The reactor of claim 18 wherein the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a flow component of the EPE upwardly toward a central location of the processing zone. 24. The reactor of claim 18 wherein: the annular electrode has a vertically oriented side wall and an opening aligned with the processing zone through which the EPE can flow; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode. 25. The reactor of claim 18 wherein: the annular electrode has a vertically oriented side wall and an opening aligned with the processing zone through which the EPE can flow; and the gas control system further comprises a diffuser at the inlet of the processing cup that directs a first flow component of the EPE toward a central location of the processing zone and a second flow component of the EPE fluid upward and radially outward toward the side wall of the electrode, the annular bubble trap has a ledge extending around an interior portion of the processing cup and projecting radially inward above the electrode, and the gas control system further comprises a vent through the processing cup located under the ledge. 