The invention is directed to a system and method for releasably holding a surgical instrument (14), such as an endoscopic instrument configured for delivery through a small percutaneous penetration in a patient. The instrument comprises an elongate shaft (100) with a pair of mounting pins (116) laterally extending from the shaft between its proximal and distal ends. An instrument holder comprises a support having a central bore (202) and an axially extending slot (204) for receiving the instrument shaft and the mounting pins. A pair of locking slots (206) are cut into the support transversely to and in communication with the axial slot so that the mounting pins can be rotated within the locking slots. The instrument support further includes a latch assembly for automatically locking the mounting pins within the locking slots to releasably couple the instrument to the instrument holder. With this twist-lock motion, the surgeon can rapidly engage and disengage various instruments from the holder during a surgical procedure, such as open surgery, laparoscopy or thoracoscopy.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical system comprising: a surgical instrument assembly including an instrument having an elongate member with a proximal end, a distal end, a longitudinal centerline therebetween and an end effector coupled to the distal end, and including an instrument holder supporting the instrument, the instrument holder comprising a least two of engageable drive coupling elements; at least the distal end and end effector of the surgical instrument being sterilizable and configured to be insertable through a percutaneous incision in the body of the patient to a target site within to body; and a manipulator assembly including a actuator drive for manipulating the instrument holder and the surgical instrument therewith, the actuator drive configured to removably couple to the engageable coupling elements of the instrument holder of the instrument assembly so as to transfer at least two motion actuations from the actuator drive to the instrument. 2. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the end effector is coupled to the distal end of the elongate member of the instrument by an actuatable wrist member, wherein the at least two motion actuations include pivoting the wrist member to provide at least one degree of freedom of the end effector relative to the elongate member. 3. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the end effector is coupled to the distal end of the elongate member of the instrument by an actuatable wrist member having a wrist axis, wherein the at least two motion actuations include rotating the wrist member about the wrist axis to provide at least one degree of freedom of the end effector relative to the elongate member. 4. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the end effector is coupled to the distal end of the elongate member of the instrument by an steerible bendable member, the instrument assembly further comprising at least one control element releasably coupling the bendable member to the actuator drive of the manipulator assembly, wherein the at least two motion actuations include steering the bendable member to provide at least one degree of freedom of the end effector relative to the elongate member. 5. The surgical system of claim 1, wherein the end effector is movably actuatable, and wherein the motion actuations include rotation of the instrument about the longitudinal centerline of the elongate member, and actuation of the end effector. 6. The surgical system of claim 5 wherein the drive assembly includes a first controllable motor for rotating the instrument about the instrument centerline, a second controllable motor for actuating the end effector on the instrument and a third controllable motor for axially translating the instrument assembly, the instrument holder including a third linkage for transferring motion actuation from the third motor to the instrument assembly. 7. The surgical system of claim 1 wherein the instrument holder further comprises one or more electrical feed-throughs for transferring electrical signals to and/or from the manipulator assembly and the instrument assembly. 8. The surgical system of claim 1 further comprising an input control device located remotely from said surgical instrument assembly, and a servomechanism coupled to the instrument holder and the input control device for remotely controlling the surgical instrument with the input control device. 9. The surgical system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of different surgical instruments, the surgical instruments sequentially coupleable to the manipulator assembly so that different instruments may be used during an endoscopic procedure. 10. A surgical system comprising: a surgical instrument including an elongate member with proximal and distal ends, a longitudinal centerline therebetween, an end effector coupled to the distal end, and a mounting interface, at least a portion of the surgical instrument is sterilizable; an instrument holder comprising a support body with first and second ends, the instrument holder releasably engaging the instrument, at least a portion of the instrument holder is sterilizable; a drive assembly coupleable to the instrument holder and instrument the drive assembly including a plurality of actuator elements for transferring at least two motion actuations from the drive assembly to the instrument; and at least a distal portion of the surgical instrument assembly is configured to be insertable through a percutaneous incision in the patient to a target site within the body of the patient. 11. The surgical system of claim 10, wherein the end effector is coupled to the distal end of the elongate member of the instrument by an actuatable wrist member, wherein the at least two motion actuations include pivoting the wrist member to provide at least one degree of freedom of the end effector relative to the elongate member. 12. The surgical system of claim 10, wherein the end effector is coupled to the distal end of the elongate member of the instrument by an actuatable wrist member having a wrist axis, wherein the at least two motion actuations include rotating the wrist member about the wrist axis to provide at least one degree of freedom of the end effector relative to the elongate member. 13. The surgical system of claim 10, wherein the end effector is coupled to the distal end of the elongate member of the instrument by an steerible bendable member, the instrument assembly further comprising at least one control element releasably coupling the bendable member to the actuator drive of the manipulator assembly, wherein the at least two motion actuations include steering the bendable member to provide at least one degree of freedom of the end effector relative to the elongate member. 14. The surgical system of claim 13, wherein the at least one control element comprises a plurality of cables. 15. The surgical system of claim 10, wherein the end effector is movably actuatable, and wherein the motion actuations include rotation of the instrument about the longitudinal centerline of the elongate member, and actuation of the end effector. 16. The surgical system of claim 15 wherein the drive assembly includes a first controllable motor for rotating the instrument about the instrument centerline, a second controllable motor for actuating the end effector on the instrument and a third controllable motor for axially translating the instrument assembly, the instrument holder including a third linkage for transferring motion actuation from the third motor to the instrument assembly. 17. The surgical system of claim 10, wherein the instrument holder further comprises one or more electrical feed-throughs for transferring electrical signals to and/or from the manipulator assembly and the instrument assembly. 18. The surgical system of claim 10, further comprising an input control device located remotely from said surgical instrument assembly, and a servomechanism coupled to the instrument holder and the input control device for remotely controlling the surgical instrument with the input control device. 19. The surgical system of claim 10, further comprising a plurality of different surgical instruments, the surgical instruments sequentially coupleable to the manipulator assembly so that different instruments maybe used during an endoscopic procedure. 