The present invention is related to a medical device (1) adapted for the ablation of a target volume inside an anatomical organ, said medical device (1) comprising as elements a main body (2), stabilizing means (3) for stabilizing the device relatively to the organ and heating means in the form of a bipolar electrode (10) comprising parts activable by an external radiofrequency generator for heating said target volume, wherein said bipolar electrode comprises a first element having the form of a central anchoring member (5), and a second element having the form of at least two concentric rigid helices or coils (4',4'',) of predetermined diameter (D) and length (L), said helices surrounding the central anchoring member (5). The present invention also concerns a surgical assembly comprising said medical device and controlling means as well as a process for the specific destruction a target volume inside an organ by means of said medical device or surgical assembly.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A medical device adapted for the ablation of a target volume inside an anatomical organ, said medical device comprising a main body, a stabilizer for stabilising the medical device relatively to the organ and heating means in the form of a bipolar electrode comprising parts activatable by an external radiofrequency generator for heating said target volume, wherein said bipolar electrode consists of a first element having the form of a straight needle, and a second element having the form of two concentric rigid helices of predetermined diameters and length, and arranged concentric around the straight needle, said first and second elements being independently deployable between first retracted positions inside the stabilizer and second protruding positions outside the stabilizer, wherein the medical device has at least two distinct operational modes with each of the two helices being activatable independently of one another to form a first pole, and a second pole being formed, in a first operational mode, by the straight needle, with the helix other than the helix forming the first pole being inactive, and in a second operational mode, by the helix other than the helix forming the first pole, with the straight needle being inactive; and wherein during operation in either of the first or second operational modes, the external radiofrequency generator activates an active outermost one of the helices and destroys the target volume wrapped by the active outermost one of the helices and destroys the target volume wrapped by the active outermost one of the helices in bipolar mode, while at the same time preserving surrounding tissues located immediately outside of the active outermost one of the helices. 2. The medical device according to claim 1, wherein the helices are activatable at least on one fraction of their length. 3. The medical device according to claim 1, wherein the helices are activatable on their full length. 4. The medical device according to claim 1, wherein in a rest configuration, said medical device has the following degrees of freedom in a referential system (O, X, Y, Z) centred at the centre of the main body: Rotation around the Z axis; Rotation around the Y axis; Translation along the X axis; Translation along the Y axis; Translation along the Z axis. 5. The medical device according to claim 1, wherein in a working configuration, the medical device is such that the straight needle of the bipolar electrode has one degree of freedom in a referential system (O, X, Y, Z) centred at the centre of the main body corresponding to a translation along the X axis, while the helices have two degrees of freedom, one corresponding to a translation along the X axis, and the other to a rotation around the X axis. 6. The medical device according to claim 5, wherein in the working configuration any translation or rotational movement of the main body and of the stabilizer is blocked. 7. The medical device according to claim 1 being conceived such that the positioning of the different elements of said medical device relatively to the target volume and relatively to each other and the activation state of said parts of the bipolar electrode are able to be controlled by controlling means. 8. The medical device according to claim 7, wherein the controlling means comprise a robot. 9. The medical device according to claim 8, wherein said robot is coupled to a 3D-navigation system and to a computer. 10. The medical device of claim 1, wherein the medical device is coupled to a controlling means to provide a surgical assembly. 11. The medical device according to claim 10, wherein said controlling means comprise a robot. 12. A medical device according to claim 11, further comprising a 3D navigation system and/or a computer and/or interfacing means. 13. The medical device of claim 1, wherein the straight needle and the concentric rigid helices are entirely made of one or more biocompatible materials. 14. The medical device of claim 1, wherein in operation conditions the concentric rigid helices and the straight needle are configured to remain in position relative to the target volume, such that a zone of ablation is confined to between the first pole and the second pole. 15. The medical device of claim 1, further comprising a controller configured with the at least two distinct operational modes, the controller controlling the operation of the bipolar electrode. 16. The medical device of claim 1, wherein the straight needle and each of the two concentric rigid helices have proximal ends configured to be linked to the external radiofrequency generator, such that in each operational mode only two of the proximal ends are linked to the external radiofrequency generator. 17. The medical device of claim 1, wherein the two helices are independently deployable, and in the first operational mode the inactive helix is kept in the retracted position. 18. A process for the destruction of a target volume inside an anatomical organ by radiofrequency ablation technique using a medical device or a surgical assembly incorporating the medical device, said process comprising the following steps: determining parameters comprising at least the anatomical features of a target volume to be treated; on the basis of said parameters, defining two concentric helices of predetermined diameters and length and a straight needle concentric to the two concentric helices to use in a bipolar electrode, defining a mode of activation of the bipolar electrode by selecting between the two helices which one to activate as a first pole, and by selecting a second pole to be formed by the straight needle or the other helix than the helix forming the first pole, while keeping the other one of the straight needle and the other helix inactive, and defining an intensity and time of activation of said bipolar electrode; introducing at least part of said medical device inside the patient; once a target organ is reached, positioning the medical device relatively to the target volume; performing a treatment procedure of the target volume following the predetermined parameters and activating the bipolar electrode according to the defined mode of activation to destroy a volume of tissue wrapped by an active outermost one of the helices, while at the same time preserving tissue surrounding the active outermost one of the helices. 19. The process of claim 18, wherein the treatment of target volume is of an anatomical organ selected from the group consisting of kidneys, lungs, liver, breast, prostate and brain. 20. The process of claim 18, wherein the bipolar electrode is activated according to a sequence of selection and activation comprising firstly selecting a helix having the smallest diameter of the two helices as the first pole and selecting the straight needle as the second pole and activating to destroy a first target volume and subsequently selecting a helix having the larger diameter as the first pole and selecting the helix having the smallest diameter as the second pole and activating to destroy a second target volume surrounding the first target volume. 21. The process of claim 18, wherein the treatment procedure comprises keeping the helices and the straight needle in position relative to the target volume during at least a part of the treatment procedure, such that a zone of ablation is confined to a volume wrapped by the active outermost one of the two helices. 22. A process for the destruction of a target volume inside an anatomical organ by radiofrequency ablation technique using a medical device or a surgical assembly incorporating the medical device, said process comprising the following steps by means of a three dimensional navigation system: establishing a surgical protocol according to different parameters including the anatomical features of the target volume to be treated, said surgical protocol defining a sequence and a type of movements of the medical device and of its different elements, at least two concentric helices of predetermined diameters and length and a straight needle concentric to the at least two concentric helices to use in a bipolar electrode, a mode of activation of the bipolar electrode by selecting between the at least two helices which one to activate as a first pole, and by selecting a second pole to be formed by the straight needle or another one of the at least two helices other than the helix forming the first pole, while keeping non-selected ones of the straight needle and the at least two helices inactive, an intensity and a time of activation of said bipolar electrode; manually introducing at least part of said medical device inside the patient and approximately positioning said device relatively to the target volume; starting an automatic operating of the three dimensional navigation system so as to perform a surgical procedure under automatic control following the established surgical protocol; activating the bipolar electrode according to the defined mode of activation to destroy a volume of tissue wrapped by an active outermost one of the at least two helices, while at the same time preserving tissue surrounding the active outermost one of the at least two helices; monitoring the surgical procedure and restoring a manual control on the device, in case of security problems. 23. The process of claim 22, wherein the treatment of target volume is of an anatomical organ selected from the group consisting of kidneys, lungs, liver, breast, prostate and brain. 24. The process of claim 22, wherein the bipolar electrode is activated according to a sequence of selection and activation comprising firstly selecting a helix having the smallest diameter of the at least two helices as the first pole and selecting the straight needle as the second pole and activating to destroy a first target volume and subsequently selecting a helix having a larger diameter as the first pole and selecting the helix having the smallest diameter as the second pole and activating to destroy a second target volume surrounding the first target volume. 25. The process of claim 22, wherein the surgical procedure comprises keeping the at least two helices and the straight needle in position relative to the target volume during at least a part of the surgical procedure, such that a zone of ablation is confined to a volume wrapped by the active outermost one of the at least two helices. 