Provided is a vibrating device which can generate efficient vibrations in a vibrating member and efficiently apply vibrations to a gas, a jet flow generating device in which the vibrating device has been implemented, and an electronic device in which the jet flow generating device has been implemented. A jet flow generating device 10 has a vibrating device 15 including a frame 4, and actuator 5 mounted on the frame 4, and a vibrating member 3 supported on the frame 4 by an elastic supporting member 6. The vibrating member 3 has a side plate 3b formed on the perimeter portion of a disc-shaped vibrating plate 3a, for example. Vibration of the vibrating member 3 applies vibrations to air within chambers 11a and 11b, whereby gas can alternatingly be blown from nozzles 2a and 2b.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A vibrating device configured to vibrate gas included in a housing so as to discharge said gas via an opening included in said housing as a pulsating flow, comprising: a frame; a vibrating member including a vibrating plate having a face generally perpendicular to a vibrating direction, the vibrating member including a side plate extending from the vibrating plate, the side plate being in sliding contact with the frame during vibration to prevent sideways rocking of the vibrating member, the vibrating member being supported by said frame so as to displace relative to the frame; and a driving unit configured to drive said vibrating member, the driving unit surrounding the vibrating member such that the vibrating device is reduced in thickness. 2. The vibrating device according to claim 1, wherein the side plate and the frame are separated by a gap, the gap being sufficiently narrow to eliminate the communication of air between a front face and a rear face side of the vibrating member. 3. The vibrating device according to claim 2, wherein the vibrating member includes a rib member connected to between said vibrating plate and said side plate, the vibrating member including a hole in the rib member. 4. The vibrating device according to claim 2, wherein said side plate is installed upright at one side in said vibrating direction of said vibrating plate; and wherein said driving unit includes an actuator configured to vibrate said vibrating member, which is disposed at said one side. 5. The vibrating device according to claim 1, wherein said vibrating member includes a hole in said side plate. 6. The vibrating device according to claim 1, wherein the vibrating device further includes (a) a first elastic supporting member configured to support the vibrating member, the first elastic supporting member being disposed between the frame and the side plate so as not to circulate the gas from one side of the vibrating direction of the vibrating plate to an opposite side thereof, and (b) a second elastic supporting member configured to support the vibrating member, the second elastic supporting member being disposed between said frame and said side plate so as to be arrayed in a line with said first elastic supporting member generally in said vibrating direction. 7. The vibrating device according to claim 1, wherein said vibrating member is made up of a resin, paper, or metal. 8. The vibrating device according to claim 1, wherein said face is made up of a circle, an ellipse, a polygon, or an angle round shape. 9. A jet flow generating device comprising: a frame; a vibrating member including a vibrating plate having a face generally perpendicular to a vibrating direction, the vibrating member including a side plate extending from the vibrating plate, the side plate being in sliding contact with the frame during vibration to prevent sideways rocking of the vibrating member, the vibrating member being supported by said frame so as to displace relative to the frame; a housing including an opening, configured to support said frame, and also in which gas is included; and a driving unit configured to discharge said gas via said opening as a pulsating flow by driving said vibrating member to apply vibration to said gas, the driving unit surrounding the vibrating member such that the vibrating device is reduced in thickness. 10. The vibrating device according to claim 9, wherein the side plate and the frame are separated by a gap, the gap being sufficiently narrow to eliminate the communication of air between a front face and a rear face side of the vibrating member. 11. The jet flow generating device according to claim 9, wherein part of said housing is configured of said frame, and the frame is made up of metal. 12. The jet flow generating device according to claim 11, wherein the vibrating device further includes (a) a first elastic supporting member configured to support the vibrating member, the first elastic supporting member being disposed between the frame and the side plate so as not to circulate the gas from one side of the vibrating direction of the vibrating plate to an opposite side thereof, and (b) a second elastic supporting member configured to support the vibrating member, the second elastic supporting member being disposed between said frame and said side plate so as to be arrayed in a line with said first elastic supporting member generally in said vibrating direction. 13. The jet flow generating device according to claim 9, wherein said housing is made up of a resin, rubber, metal, a magnetic material, or ceramics. 14. The jet flow generating device according to claim 9, wherein said housing is generally in parallel with said face of said vibrating plate, and includes a face of which the shape is similar to said face. 15. The jet flow generating device according to claim 9, wherein said frame includes an air communication opening configured to circulate said gas, which faces said opening. 16. The jet flow generating device according to claim 9, further comprising: a nozzle member including a conduit of said gas to be communicated to said opening, mounted on said housing. 17. The jet flow generating device according to claim 9, wherein said housing includes an outer face including a first face, a second face, a curved face configured to connect between said first face and said second face. 18. A jet flow generating device comprising: a vibrating member including a vibrating plate having a face generally perpendicular to a vibrating direction, the vibrating member including a side plate extending from the vibrating plate, the side plate being in sliding contact with the frame during vibration to prevent sideways rocking of the vibrating member; a housing including an opening, the housing configured to support said vibrating member therein; gas within said housing; and a driving unit configured to discharge said gas via said opening as a pulsating flow by driving said vibrating member to apply vibration to said gas, the driving unit surrounding the vibrating member such that the vibrating device is reduced in thickness. 19. The jet flow generating device according to claim 18, wherein the side plate and the frame are separated by a gap, the gap being sufficiently narrow to eliminate the communication of air between a front face and a rear face side of the vibrating member. 