A cleaning apparatus for removing metallic buildup from forming surfaces of metal forming dies while the dies are in a press and operating at elevated temperatures. The cleaning apparatus includes a programmable positioner having a robotic arm with an end effector carrying a brush assembly. The brush assembly includes a rotary drive motor rotatably carrying a metallic wire brush. The brush has a plurality of radially extending plain carbon steel bristles having tips adapted for removing metallic buildup from the forming surfaces of dies. The positioner operates to move the rotatable wire brush in a predetermined path that engages the brush with the forming surfaces of the dies for sweeping and cleaning metallic buildup from the forming surfaces.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of super plastic and quick plastic forming sheet metal parts which are substantially free of show surface imperfection comprising the steps of: heating at least one metal forming die to a predetermined temperature range; inserting a blank of lubricated metal stock onto a forming surface of the die; forcing the blank onto the forming die to form a panel; removing the formed panel from the forming die; removing metallic buildup from the forming surface of the die using a cleaning apparatus comprising a programmable positioner carrying a brush assembly including a rotary drive motor rotatably carrying a cylindrical brush, the brush having a plurality of radially extending metallic wire bristles spaced axially from the rotary drive motor and adapted for removing metallic buildup from the forming surface of the forming die; and moving the cylindrical brush with the programmable positioner along a predetermined cleaning path with the brush in engagement with the forming surface of the die to remove metallic buildup therefrom; wherein the metallic buildup is deposited generally in a predetermined direction on the forming die and the brush is rotated generally perpendicular to the direction of metallic buildup. 2. A method as in claim 1 wherein: the metal forming die has a steel-forming surface, the lubricated metal stock is an aluminum alloy suitable for the forming method, the bristles of the wire brush are of steel softer than the forming surface of the die, and the metallic buildup is primarily aluminum alloy from the metal stock. 3. A method as in claim 1 wherein the predetermined cleaning path lies generally perpendicular to the direction of metallic buildup. 4. A method as in claim 3 wherein the rotary drive motor is air driven. 