The present invention provides an interactive robotic device having a body, a transport mechanism, a drive mechanism, a plurality of inputs and outputs for receiving, delivering and/or displaying information, including aural and/or visual information or signals, a container for carrying or holding items to be delivered or dispensed to a user, and a dispensing structure for dispensing items to a user.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self-propelled robotic device comprising: a body; a transport mechanism operably coupled with the body, the transport mechanism adapted to propel the robotic device; a drive mechanism operably coupled with the transport mechanism, the drive mechanism adapted to operate the transport mechanism; said transport mechanism including a chasis and wheels mounted on said chasis to propel said robotic device to move forward and to spin around, said transporting device includes a kick out gear arrangement comprising a position able kick out gear having two gear trains with forward and spinning movements wherein said drive mechanism includes a motor gear box wherein direction of motor rotation determines a movement performed so that motor rotation in one direction causes movement of both gear trains in a same direction, rotation of all wheels in one direction and forward movement of said robot and a reverse motor direction causes one gear train to move in an opposite direction of another of said two gear trains to provide a spinning movement for said robot; an input component associated with the body, the input component adapted to be actuated to activate the device to perform an action; an output component associated with the body, the output component adapted to output one of either light or sound; a container component operably coupled with the body, the container adapted to releasably carry at least one item; and a dispensing component operably coupled with the container, the dispensing component comprising a hatch adapted to dispense the at least one item gravitationally. 2. The self-propelled robotic device of claim 1, wherein the output component is adapted to output aural information. 3. The self-propelled robotic device of claim 1, wherein the output component is adapted to output visual information. 4. The self-propelled robotic device of claim 1, further comprising a microprocessor associated with the input component, the microprocessor adapted to perform the action upon actuation of the input component. 5. The self-propelled robotic device of claim 4, wherein the input component comprises a wireless input component. 6. The self-propelled robotic device of claim 4, wherein the input component comprises a contact input component. 7. The self-propelled robotic device of claim 1, wherein the output component is adapted to actuate the dispensing component to dispense the at least one item upon actuation of the output component. 8. The self-propelled robotic device of claim 1, further comprising a compartment component associated with the body, the compartment component adapted to removably carry an object. 9. An interactive robotic device comprising: a body; a transport mechanism associated with the body, the transport mechanism adapted to propel the robotic device; a drive mechanism operably coupled to the transport mechanism, the drive mechanism adapted to operate the transport mechanism; said transport mechanism including a chasis and wheels mounted on said chasis to propel said robotic device to move forward and to spin around, said transporting device includes a kick out gear arrangement comprising a position able kick out gear having two gear trains with forward and spinning movements wherein said drive mechanism includes a motor gear box wherein direction of motor rotation determines a movement performed so that motor rotation in one direction causes movement of both gear trains in a same direction rotation of all wheels in one direction and forward movement of said robot and a reverse motor direction causes one gear train to move in an opposite direction of another of said two gear trains to provide a spinning movement for said robot; an input component associated with the body, the input component adapted to be actuated to activate the device to perform an action; an output component associated with the body, the output component adapted to output one of either light or sound; a container component associated with the body, the container component comprising: a holding component configured to releasably hold at least one item; and a dispensing component in communication with the holding component, the dispensing component comprising a hatch adapted to dispense the at least one item gravitationally; and a compartment component associated with the body, the compartment component adapted to removably carry an object. 10. The interactive robotic device of claim 9, further comprising a microprocessor associated with the input component, the microprocessor adapted to perform the action upon actuation of the input component. 11. The interactive robotic device of claim 10, wherein the input component comprises a wireless input component. 12. The interactive robotic device of claim 10, wherein the input component comprises a contact input component. 13. The interactive robotic device of claim 9, wherein the output component is adapted to actuate the dispensing component to dispense the at least one item upon actuation of the output component. 