An apparatus for filling vials comprises a shelving unit defining an array of storage locations. The shelving unit may be an array in an XY plane or one or more carousels. A plurality of storage containers are provided, each removably carried by one of the storage locations. A counting and dispensing unit, a source of vials, a label printer and application unit or units, and an output device are also provided. The output device may take a variety of forms such as an output chute, which is preferably used when a capping unit is provided, an output conveyor, a plurality of output lanes, and an output carousel, which may be a dedicated carousel or a portion of the carousel providing the plurality of storage locations. A computer controlled engagement device provides motion in a Z direction. The engagement device may be comprised of a first stage for engaging the storage containers and a second stage for engaging the vials. A computer controlled system carries the engagement device and moves the engagement device in XY directions among the plurality of storage locations, counting and dispensing unit, source of vials, label printer and application unit, and output device. Methods of operating and refilling the vial filling apparatus are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated apparatus for filling vials, comprising: a shelving unit defining an array of storage locations; a plurality of storage cassettes, each removably carried by one of said storage locations; a counter and dispenser; a source of vials; a label printer and applier; an output device for outputting filled vials; a computer controlled engagement device, said engagement device providing motion in a Z direction; a computer controlled system for carrying said engagement device and for moving said engagement device in X-Y directions among said plurality of storage locations, said counter and dispenser, said source of vials, said label printer and applier, and said output device, wherein said shelving unit comprises a first carousel, said apparatus additionally comprising a second shelving unit comprising a second carousel, and wherein said computer controlled system is capable of moving said engagement device between said first carousel and said second carousel to retrieve said storage cassettes from said first carousel and said second carousel. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of said shelving units comprises an array carried by a carousel. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said output device is formed by a portion of at least one of said first and second carousels. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said engagement device includes a passive engagement mechanism for engaging said storage cassettes and wherein said storage cassettes include a passive engagement mechanism. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said passive engagement mechanism of said storage cassettes includes one of a channel or a member for insertion into said channel, and wherein the passive engagement mechanism of said engagement device includes the other of one of a channel or a member for insertion into said channel. 6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein said passive engagement mechanism of said engagement device is rotatable about an axis in the Y direction. 7. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said engagement device additionally comprises a gripper for engaging a vial. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said engagement device comprises a screw extending in the Z direction to enable said engagement device to move in the Z direction. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said output device includes one of an output chute, an output conveyor, a plurality of output lanes and an output carousel. 10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said system for carrying said engagement device comprises one of a screw drive, pulley drive, chain drive and gear drive for moving said engagement device in the XY directions. 11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said system for carrying said engagement device is one of electrically, pneumatically, and hydraulically driven. 12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said apparatus additionally comprises a computer for controlling at least one of said first and second carousels, and said engagement device and said system for carrying said engagement device. 13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said engagement device rotates between a first position and a second position to retrieve said storage cassettes from said first carousel and said second carousel, respectively. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least one of said shelving units comprises a linear array in the XY directions. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said engagement device is configured to simultaneously carry a storage cassette and a vial. 16. An automated apparatus for filling vials, comprising: a shelving unit defining an array of storage locations; a plurality of storage cassettes, each removably carried by one of said storage locations; a counter and dispenser; a source of vials; a label printer and applier; an output device for outputting filled vials; a computer controlled engagement device, said engagement device having a first stage for engaging said storage cassettes and a second stage for engaging said vials; a computer controlled system for carrying said engagement device and for moving said engagement device among said plurality of storage locations, said counter and dispenser, said source of vials, said label printer and applier, and said output device, wherein said first stage is configured to move independently of said second stage and wherein said second stage is configured to move independently of said first stage. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said shelving unit comprises an array carried by a carousel. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said output device is formed by a portion of said carousel. 19. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said first stage of said engagement device includes a passive engagement mechanism for engaging said storage cassettes and wherein said storage cassettes include a passive engagement mechanism. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said passive engagement mechanism of said storage cassettes includes one of a channel or a member for insertion into said channel, and wherein the passive engagement mechanism of said engagement device includes the other of one of a channel or a member for insertion into said channel. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein said passive engagement mechanism of said engagement device is rotatable about an axis in the Y direction. 22. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said second stage of said engagement device includes a gripper for engaging a vial. 23. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said engagement device comprises a screw extending in the Z direction to enable said engagement device to move in the Z direction. 24. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said output device includes one of an output chute, an output conveyor, a plurality of output lanes and an output carousel. 25. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said system for carrying said engagement device comprises one of a screw drive, pulley drive, chain drive and gear drive for moving said engagement device. 26. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said system for carrying said engagement device is one of electrically, pneumatically, and hydraulically driven. 27. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said shelving unit comprises a carousel, said apparatus additionally comprising a computer for controlling said carousel, said engagement device and said system for carrying said engagement device. 28. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein at least one of said shelving units comprises a linear array in the XY directions. 29. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein said engagement device is configured to simultaneously carry a storage cassette and a vial. 30. An automated apparatus for filling vials, comprising: a shelving unit defining an array of storage locations; a plurality of storage cassettes, each removably carried by one of said storage locations; a counter and dispenser; a source of vials; a label printer and applier; an output device for outputting filled vials; a computer controlled engagement device, said engagement device having a first stage for engaging said storage cassettes and a second stage for engaging said vials; a computer controlled system for carrying said engagement device and for moving said engagement device among said plurality of storage locations, said counter and dispenser, said source of vials, said label printer and applier, and said output device, wherein said shelving unit comprises a left carousel, said apparatus additionally comprising a second shelving unit comprising a right carousel, and wherein said first stage of said engagement device rotates between approximately +90 degrees and -60 degrees as measured from an insertion position for said counter and dispenser to retrieve cassettes from said left carousel and said right carousel, respectively. 