A method for applying a liner to a pipe is disclosed. The methodology includes inserting an apparatus within the pipe and moving the apparatus at a predetermined speed through the pipe. The method sprays a material from a spray head secured to the apparatus. The methodology also includes an oscillation system wherein the spray head assembly will move relative to the base assembly thus creating an over lapping pattern for the spray coating being applied to the interior surface of the pipeline. This oscillation system will allow for a more uniform coating to be applied.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of spraying a liner on an inside surface of a structure, said method including the steps of: inserting a sprayed in place apparatus on the inside surface of the structure; moving said apparatus at a predetermined speed through the structure; spraying a predetermined material from a spray head secured to said apparatus; and oscillating said spray head with relation to said apparatus to form an overlapping pattern on the inside surface of the structure, said oscillating includes a linear movement of said spray head with relation to said moving apparatus along a longitudinal axis of said apparatus. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said linear movement is a predetermined distance within the range of five inches to 36 inches. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said oscillating step allows for application thickness of approximately 0.060 inches to 20 inches in a 360.degree. arc pattern. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said oscillating allows gelling of said predetermined materials in the range of approximately 3 sec. to gel to 45 sec. to gel. 5. The method of claim 1, further including the steps of blowing air through a nozzle of said spray head at a predetermined flow rate. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein said air flow creates a fine spray having a predetermined material dispersed therein. 7. The method of claim 6, further including the step of propelling said fine spray into a spinning disk. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said disk spins between approximately 2,500 to 15,000 r.p.m. and disperses said material on the inside surface of the structure by centrifugal force. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein said fine spray disperses any trapped air because of the velocity thereof and density of said material. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said predetermined material is polyurea. 11. The method of claim 1, further including the step of inserting a rail on the inside surface of the structure an arranging said sprayed in place apparatus thereon. 12. A method of spraying a liner on the inside surface of a structure, said method including the steps of: inserting a robotic apparatus having a base and a spray head assembly on the inside surface of the structure; moving said base at a predetermined speed through the structure; and moving said spray head assembly in an oscillating manner with relation to said base along a longitudinal axis of said base, wherein said movement of said spray head assembly with relation to said base along with said movement of said base with relation to the structure creates an overlapping pattern of coating within the structure. 13. The method of claim 12, further including the step of inserting a rail on the inside surface of the structure and arranging said robotic apparatus thereon. 14. A method of spraying a liner on an inside surface of a structure, said method including the steps of: inserting a rail on the inside surface of the structure; arranging a sprayed in place apparatus on said rail; moving said apparatus at a predetermined speed through the structure; spraying a predetermined material from a spray head secured to said apparatus; and oscillating said spray head with relation to said apparatus to form an overlapping pattern on the inside surface of the structure, said oscillating includes a linear movement of said spray head with relation to said moving apparatus along a longitudinal axis of said apparatus. 