A plurality of atomizers or other tools are disposed in a mounting plate (10) in storage places (12), respectively. The mounting plate (10) is rotatable relative a paint robot of a coating installation and has a pneumatic lock or a tool holder (19) that can only be released automatically during storage of the atomizers by an external control device of the mounting plate.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A tool change system for sequentially changing tools adaptable for coating workpieces comprising; a robotic device for operably and replaceably holding one said tool; a mounting unit defining a periphery with a plurality of storage locations each being adaptable for receiving a tool flange device of one said tool, said mounting unit being a carousel that is rotatable relative to said robotic device for placing said tool flange device in a position accessable by said robotic device; a tool holding device disposed at each of said storage locations for pneumatically engaging and releasing said tool flange device as said tool flange device is accessed by said robotic device; and media connections cooperable with said mounting unit at each of said storage locations for flushing said tool flange device. 2. A tool change system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said media connections are fluidly communicated with said tool flange device for causing the pneumatic engaging of said tool flange device for locking said tool flange device inside said storage location. 3. A tool change system as set forth in claim 2, wherein said flange device is further defined by another connection adaptable for connecting to the media connections of the mounting unit when engaged inside said storage location. 4. A tool change system as set forth in claim 3 and further including an identification device. 5. A tool change system as set forth in claim 4, wherein said identification device, said tool holding device, and said media connections are operably communicated. 6. A tool change system as set forth in claim 1, wherein said media connections are adaptable for grounding at least one of the coating tools. 