A device and method for the automated storage and retrieval of trays holding subject matter. A computer system is programmed to control a storage gantry to move the trays between a storage rack and an automated machine. In a preferred embodiment, the subject matter in the trays is a plurality of micro-well plates in which microscopic crystals may be growing and the automated machine is configured to inspect and classify microscopic crystals. The automated machine has an indexing device for sequentially placing microscopic crystals in camera-view of a camera and a control computer is programmed to control the indexing device and to cause the camera to take images of the microscopic crystals and then transfer the images to a classifying processor where the images are classified. In a preferred embodiment, the microscopic crystals are protein crystals that have been grown in the wells of micro-well plates.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated storage and retrieval device for trays holding subject matter, comprising: A) an access device for the insertion and removal of a plurality of trays, B) a storage rack comprising a plurality of vertically aligned storage slots for vertically storing a plurality of trays, C) at least one automated machine, D) a storage gantry for vertical and horizontal movement of said plurality of trays between said storage rack, said access device and said at least one automated machine, said storage gantry being adopted to remove trays one-at-a-time from any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, transport the removed tray to said at least one automated machine, remove trays one-at-a-time from said at least one automated machine, and to return the removed tray to any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, and D) at least one computer system programmed to control said storage gantry. 2. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, wherein said at least one automated machine is an inspection device. 3. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 2, wherein said inspection device is a device for inspecting and classifying a plurality of microscopic crystals. 4. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 3, wherein said at least one inspection device comprises: E) at least one camera, F) an indexing device for sequentially placing said microscopic crystals in camera-view of said at least one camera, and G) at least one control computer programmed to control said indexing device and said at least one camera, wherein said at least one control computer is programmed to receive from said at least one camera images of said plurality of microscopic crystals. 5. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 4, wherein said at least one control computer automatically classifies said plurality of microscopic crystals after receiving said images. 6. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, wherein said automated machine comprises: E) at least one camera, F) an indexing device for receiving said plurality of trays and for placing said subject matter in camera view of said at least one camera, G) at least one control computer programmed to control said indexing device and said at least one camera, wherein said at least one control computer is programmed to receive from said at least one camera images of said subject matter. 7. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 6, wherein said automated machine further comprises an LED light source for illuminating said subject matter. 8. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, wherein said at least one automated machine is an automated micro-well plate filling machine. 9. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, wherein said at least one automated machine comprises: E) a micro-well plate filling assembly, comprising: 1. an indexing device, and 2. a fill mechanism in communication with a media source and positioned to insert portions of said media into the empty micro-well plates, and F) an automatic control unit programmed to cause said indexing device to move empty micro-well plates adjacent to said fill mechanism, and to cause said fill mechanism to inject media from said media source into wells in the micro-well plates. 10. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, wherein said subject matter is solution inside at least one micro-well plate. 11. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 10, wherein said at least one micro-well plate comprises a bar code, wherein said automated storage and retrieval device further comprises at least one bar code reader in communication with said at least one computer system. 12. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, wherein said plurality of trays holds at least one micro-well plate, wherein said storage gantry comprises at least one robotic gripper, wherein said plurality of trays comprises: E) at least one cut-down access area for said at least one robotic gripper, F) a corner flat for tray orientation, and G) a plurality of tapered guide pillars for guiding said at least one micro-well plate into said plurality of trays when an automated robotic device places said at least one micro-well plate into said plurality of trays. 13. A method for automatically storing and retrieving a plurality of trays, wherein said plurality of trays holds subject matter, comprising the steps of: A) placing a plurality of trays into an access device for the insertion and removal of a plurality of trays, B) transferring said plurality of trays from said access device to a storage rack, comprising a plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, C) transferring via a storage gantry utilizing vertical and horizontal movement said plurality of trays from said storage rack to an automated machine, said storage gantry being adopted to remove trays one-at-a-time from any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, transport the removed tray to said at least one automated machine, remove trays one-at-a-time from said at least one automated machine, and to return the removed tray to any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, and D) transferring via said storage gantry utilizing vertical and horizontal movement said plurality of trays from said automated machine to said storage rack, and E) controlling the movement of said storage gantry via at least one programmed computer system. 14. The method as in claim 13, wherein said subject matter is a plurality of microscopic crystals and at least one automated machine is a device for inspecting and classifying said plurality of microscopic crystals. 15. The method as in claim 14, wherein said at least one automated machine comprises: E) at least one camera, F) an indexing device for sequentially placing said microscopic crystals in camera-view of said at least one camera, and G) at least one control computer programmed to control said indexing device and said at least one camera, wherein said at least one control computer is programmed to receive from said at least one camera images of said plurality of microscopic crystals, wherein said at least one control computer is programmed to classify said plurality of microscopic crystals. 16. The method as in claim 15, wherein said at least one control computer automatically classifies said plurality of microscopic crystals after receiving said images. 17. The method as in claim 13, wherein said at least one automated machine is an automated micro-well plate filling machine. 18. The method as in claim 13, wherein said at least one automated machine comprises: E) a micro-well plate filling assembly, comprising: 1. an indexing device, and 2. a fill mechanism in communication with a media source and positioned to insert portions of said media into the empty micro-well plates, and F) an automatic control unit programmed to cause said indexing device to move empty micro-well plates adjacent to said fill mechanism, and to cause said fill mechanism to inject media from said media source into wells in the micro-well plates. 19. The method as in claim 13, wherein said plurality of trays holds at least one micro-well plate. 20. The method as in claim 19, wherein said at least one micro-well plate comprises a bar code, wherein said automated storage and retrieval device further comprises at least one bar code reader in communication with said at least one computer system. 21. The method as in claim 13, wherein said plurality of trays holds at least one micro-well plate, wherein said storage gantry comprises at least one robotic gripper, wherein said plurality of trays comprises: E) at least one cut-down access area for said at least one robotic gripper, F) a corner flat for tray orientation, and G) a plurality of tapered guide pillars for guiding said at least one micro-well plate into said plurality of trays when an automated robotic device places said at least one micro-well plate into said plurality of trays. 22. The method as in claim 13, wherein said automated machine comprises: E) at least one camera, F) an indexing device for receiving said plurality of trays and for placing said subject matter in camera view of said at least one camera, G) at least one control computer programmed to control said indexing device and said at least one camera, wherein said at least one control computer is programmed to receive from said at least one camera images of said subject matter. 23. An automated storage and retrieval device for trays holding subject matter, comprising: A) an access device means for the insertion and removal of a plurality of trays, B) a storage rack means comprising a plurality of vertically aligned storage slots for vertically storing a plurality of trays, C) at least one automated machine means, D) a storage gantry means for vertical and horizontal movement of said plurality of trays between said storage rack means, said access device means and said at least one automated machine means, said storage gantry means being adopted to remove trays one-at-a-time from any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, transport the removed tray to said at least one automated machine, remove trays one-at-a-time from said at least one automated machine, and to return the removed tray to any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, and E) at least one computer system means programmed to control said storage gantry means. 24. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 23, wherein said at least one automated machine means is an inspection means. 25. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 24, wherein said inspection means is a device for inspecting and classifying a plurality of microscopic crystals. 26. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 25, wherein said at least one inspection means comprises: E) at least one camera, F) an indexing means for sequentially placing said microscopic crystals in camera-view of said at least one camera, and G) at least one control computer programmed to control said indexing means and said at least one camera, wherein said at least one control computer is programmed to receive from said at least one camera images of said plurality of microscopic crystals. 27. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 26, wherein said at least one control computer automatically classifies said plurality of microscopic crystals after receiving said images. 28. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 23, wherein said automated machine means comprises: E) at least one camera, F) an indexing means for receiving said plurality of trays and for placing said subject matter in camera view of said at least one camera, G) at least one control computer programmed to control said indexing means and said at least one camera, wherein said at least one control computer is programmed to receive from said at least one camera images of said subject matter. 29. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 28, wherein said automated machine means further comprises an LED light source for illuminating said subject matter. 30. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 23, wherein said at least one automated machine means is an automated micro-well plate filling machine. 31. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 23, wherein said at least one automated machine means comprises: E) a micro-well plate filling assembly, comprising: 1. an indexing device, and 2. a fill mechanism in communication with a media source and positioned to insert portions of said media into the empty micro-well plates, and F) an automatic control unit programmed to cause said indexing device to move empty micro-well plates adjacent to said fill mechanism, and to cause said fill mechanism to inject media from said media source into wells in the micro-well plates. 32. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 23, wherein said subject matter is solution inside at least one micro-well plate. 33. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 32, wherein said at least one micro-well plate comprises a bar code, wherein said automated storage and retrieval device further comprises at least one bar code reader in communication with said at least one computer system. 34. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 23, wherein said plurality of trays holds at least one micro-well plate, wherein said storage gantry comprises at least one robotic gripper, wherein said plurality of trays comprises: E) at least one cut-down access area for said at least one robotic gripper, F) a corner flat for tray orientation, and G) a plurality of tapered guide pillars for guiding said at least one micro-well plate into said plurality of trays when an automated robotic device places said at least one micro-well plate into said plurality of trays. 35. A method for growing protein crystals, comprising the steps of: A) inserting drops of protein solution into a plurality of micro-well plates, B) placing said plurality of micro-well plates onto a plurality of Ways, C) placing said plurality of trays into an access device for the insertion and removal of a plurality of trays, C) transferring said plurality of trays from said access device to a storage rack comprising a plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, D) transferring via a storage gantry utilizing vertical and horizontal movement said plurality of Ways from said storage rack to an automated machine, said storage gantry being adopted to remove trays one-at-a-time from any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, transport the removed tray to said at least one automated machine, remove trays one-at-a-time from said at least one automated machine, and to return the removed tray to any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, E) analyzing via said automated machine said drops of protein solution, F) transferring via said storage gantry utilizing vertical and horizontal movement said plurality of trays from said automated machine to said storage rack, and G) controlling the movement of said storage gantry via at least one programmed computer system. 36. Protein crystals grown by a method comprising the steps of: A) inserting drops of protein solution into a plurality of micro-well plates, B) placing said plurality of micro-well plates onto a plurality of trays, C) placing said plurality of trays into an access device for the insertion and removal of a plurality of trays, D) transferring said plurality of trays from said access device to a storage rack, comprising a plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, D) transferring via a storage gantry utilizing vertical and horizontal movement said plurality of trays from said storage rack to an automated machine, said storage gantry being adopted to remove trays one-at-a-time from any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, transport the removed tray to said at least one automated machine, remove trays one-at-a-time from said at least one automated machine, and to return the removed tray to any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, E) analyzing via said automated machine said drops of protein solution, F) transferring via said storage gantry utilizing vertical and horizontal movement said plurality of trays from said automated machine to said storage rack, and G) controlling the movement of said storage gantry via at least one programmed computer system. 37. An automated storage and retrieval device for at least one micro-well plate holding subject matter, comprising: A) an access device for the insertion and removal of a plurality of trays, B) a storage rack comprising a plurality of vertically aligned storage slots for vertically storing said at least one micro-well plate, C) at least one automated machine, D) a storage gantry for vertical and horizontal movement of said at least one micro-well plate between said storage rack, said access device and said at least one automated machine, said storage gantry being adopted to remove trays one-at-a-time from any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, transport the removed tray to said at least one automated machine, remove trays one-at-a-time from said at least one automated machine, and to return the removed tray to any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots, and D) at least one computer system programmed to control said storage gantry. 38. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 37, wherein said at least one automated machine is an inspection device comprising: E) at least one camera, F) an indexing device for sequentially placing said at least one micro-well plate m camera-view of said at least one camera, and G) at least one control computer programmed to control said indexing device and said at least one camera, wherein said at least one control computer is programmed to receive from said at least one camera images of said subject matter in said at least one micro-well plate. 39. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, wherein said storage gantry is adapted to remove a tray from any one of said plurality of vertically aligned storage slots and transport the tray to said automated machine without disturbing any other tray. 40. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, wherein said storage gantry is adapted to transport a tray from said automated machine to any one of said plurality of storage slots that are empty of trays without disturbing any other tray. 41. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, wherein said storage gantry is configured to transport a tray directly to said at least one automated machine without first transporting the tray to a conveyor belt. 42. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, wherein said at least one computer system is programmed to: E) record the location of each tray of said plurality of trays within said storage rack, F) automatically control said storage gantry to remove a specific tray from a specific location within said storage rack, G) automatically control said storage gantry to transport said specific tray to said at least one automated machine, H) automatically control said storage gantry to remove said specific tray from said at least one automated machine, I) automatically control said storage gantry to return said specific tray to said specific location within said storage rack, wherein steps F-I are automatically executed at preprogrammed time intervals for the purpose of observing protein crystal growth and said preprogrammed time intervals are of sufficient length so as to be able to observe protein crystal growth. 43. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, wherein said at least one computer system is programmed to automatically identify the subject matter in each tray after the tray has been placed in said access device and prior to transfer to said storage gantry for storage in said storage rack, wherein said computer system is programmed to record the location and the identity of the subject matter after said storage gantry has placed said tray in said storage rack. 44. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 43, wherein said at least one computer system automatically identifies the subject matter by utilization of a bar code reader in communication with said at least one computer system. 45. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 42, wherein said preprogrammed time intervals are approximately two week intervals. 46. The automated storage and retrieval device as in claim 1, further comprising a standby station for positioning at least one of said plurality of trays while other of said plurality of trays are being handled by said at least one automated machine or transported by said storage gantry, wherein said standby station increases the efficiency of said at least one automated machine by decreasing the amount of time that said at least one automated machine is empty. 