The present invention provides a system and process providing variable access to, as well as quick and accurate dispensing of, numerous selected reagents from a mass storage arrangement. According to one embodiment, an array of reagent dispensers is supported over a movable platform assembly. The platform assembly aligns a designated receiving receptacle under a selected dispenser of the array so that a respective reagent can be dispensed therein. Advantageously, the apparatus and process can be carried out under the control of a programmed computer.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system for storing and dispensing a plurality of solid reagents, comprising: an addressable array of solid reagent dispensers; a gate mechanism at a lower outlet region of each dispenser, each gate mechanism being independently operable between (i) an open condition permitting passage of a respective solid reagent through said outlet region, and (ii) a closed condition whereas such passage is blocked; a first support disposed below said array; and a second support mounted on said first support, said second support having a holding area for receiving a plurality of receptacles; wherein (i) said first support is variably positionable, permitting placement of a fixed target region thereof directly under any selected one of said dispensers in said array, and (ii) said second support is variably positionable, permitting placement of any selected target site of said holding area directly over said fixed target region. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein said first and second supports are independently operable xy stages. 3. A system for storing and dispensing a plurality of solid reagents, comprising: an addressable array of solid reagent dispensers; a gate mechanism at an outlet region of each dispenser, each gate mechanism being independently operable between (i) an opened condition permitting passage of a respective solid reagent through said outlet region and (ii) a closed condition wherein said passage is blocked; a first support disposed adjacent said array; and a second support mounted on said first support, said second support having a holding area for receiving a plurality of receptacles, wherein (i) said first support is variably positionable to permit placement of a fixed target region thereof in alignment with any selected one of said dispensers in said array, and (ii) said second support is variably positionable to permit placement of any selected target site of said holding area in alignment with said fixed target region. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein said dispensers are elongated containers, each having a longitudinally extending passageway configured to receive and hold a respective solid reagent when said gate mechanism is in the closed condition. 5. The system of claim 4, further comprising a rack having an array of at least about 100 holding cells, each holding cell being configured to removably support one of said containers in a substantially upright fashion. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein said holding cells are disposed at an average density of at least about 3 holding cells per cm.sup.2. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein said array includes at least about 500 holding cells; and wherein said holding cells are disposed at an average density of at least about 4 holding cells per cm.sup.2. 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said array includes at least about 1,000 holding cells. 9. The system of claim 8, wherein said array includes at least about 10,000 holding cells. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein said array includes at least about 100,000 holding cells. 11. The system of claim 4, further comprising a plurality of different solid reagents disposed in said dispenser passageways. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein each of said passageways contains a solid reagent that is unique to said array. 13. The system of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of solid reagent bead lots, each lot comprised of a plurality of substantially similar reagent beads and moveable through said outlet region. 14. The system of claim 13, wherein each reagent bead has a diameter of less than about a millimeter. 15. The system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of different solid reagents comprises particulate reagents. 16. The system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of different solid reagents comprises powder reagents. 17. The system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of different solid reagents comprises beads. 18. The system of claim 3, wherein said first and second supports are independently operable xy stages. 19. The system of claim 3, wherein each gate mechanism is subject to a normal biasing force that urges it to the closed position, thereby preventing the passage of a solid reagent through a respective outlet region. 20. The system of claim 19, further comprising a release mechanism positionable near any one of said gate mechanisms and operable to apply a secondary force of a magnitude and direction effective to override the normal biasing force so that the gate mechanism assumes the opened condition. 21. The system of claim 20, wherein each gate mechanism is a resiliently deflectable lever having a protrusion normally extending into a respective outlet region. 