A station for inspecting the painting of motor vehicle bodywork parts, the station including an optical measuring apparatus and means for attenuating vibration of the moving parts.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An inspection station for inspecting the painting of motor vehicle bodywork parts, the station including an optical measuring apparatus, wherein the apparatus is mounted on a tracker robot which moves the apparatus along a path of a part moving while measurement is taking place, and wherein the inspection station includes at least a portion of a conveyor for parts, which portion is provided with means for attenuating vibration of the moving parts. 2. A station according to claim 1, the parts being conveyed by poles carried at their bases by moving carriages, in which a slideway is provided along the paint inspection station for receiving the free top ends of the poles and for guiding them parallel to the path of the carriages so as to prevent them from rocking transversely with rolling motion. 3. A station according to claim 1, the parts being conveyed by poles carried at their bases by moving carriages, in which holding members for holding the free top ends of the poles are arranged above the carriages, and are driven parallel to the carriages so as to accompany the travel of the poles, which poles are thus held at both top and bottom ends, and are prevented from vibrating. 4. A station according to claim 1, the parts being conveyed by carriages running on rails, wherein a portion of the trails is made of a not very adherent material such as PTFE. 5. A station according to claim 1, conveying being performed by carriages running on rails, in which a portion of the rails does not include any joints, so that the carriages going past the inspection station are not subjected to vibration due to crossing a gap zone between two consecutive rail portions. 6. A station according to claim 4, in which the rails are covered in a layer of not very adherent material over a length that corresponds to the length of the inspection station. 7. A station according to claim 1, conveying being performed by wheeled carriages, in which raised rails are provided for raising the carriages in the region of the inspection station so that during inspection the carriages cease to be carried by the wheels that have carried the carriages through the painting line. 8. An inspection station for inspecting the painting of motor vehicle bodywork parts, the station including an optical measuring apparatus, wherein the apparatus is mounted on a tracker robot which moves the apparatus along a path of a part moving while measurement is taking place, and wherein the inspection station includes at least a portion of a conveyor for parts, which portion is provided with means for attenuating vibration of the moving parts, the parts being conveyed by poles carried at their bases by moving carriages, in which a slideway is provided along the paint inspection station for receiving the free top ends of the poles and for guiding the poles parallel to the path of the carriages so as to prevent the poles from rocking transversely with rolling motion. 9. An inspection station for inspecting the painting of motor vehicle bodywork parts, the station including an optical measuring apparatus, wherein the apparatus is mounted on a tracker robot which moves the apparatus along a path of a part moving while measurement is taking place, and wherein the inspection station includes at least a portion of a conveyor for parts, which portion is provided with means for attenuating vibration of the moving parts, the parts being conveyed by poles carried at their bases by moving carriages, in which holding members for holding the free top ends of the poles are arranged above the carriages, and are driven parallel to the carriages so as to accompany the travel of the poles, which poles are thus held at both top and bottom ends, and are prevented from vibrating. 10. An inspection station for inspecting the painting of motor vehicle bodywork parts, the station including an optical measuring apparatus, wherein the apparatus is mounted on a tracker robot which moves the apparatus along a path of a part moving while measurement is taking place, and wherein the inspection station includes at least a portion of a conveyor for parts, which portion is provided with means for attenuating vibration of the moving parts, the parts being conveyed by carriages running on rails, wherein a portion of the rails is made of a not very adherent material. 11. An inspection station for inspecting the painting of motor vehicle bodywork parts, the station including an optical measuring apparatus, wherein the apparatus is mounted on a tracker robot which moves the tracker robot along a path of a part moving while measurement is taking place, and wherein the inspection station includes at least a portion of a conveyor for parts, which portion is provided with means for attenuating vibration of the moving parts, the conveyor comprising carriages running on rails, in which a portion of the rails does not include any joints, so that the carriages going past the inspection station are not subjected to vibration due to crossing a gap zone between consecutive rail portions. 12. An inspection station for inspecting the painting of motor vehicle bodywork parts, the station including an optical measuring apparatus, wherein the apparatus is mounted on a tracker robot which moves the apparatus along a path of a part moving while measurement is taking place, and wherein the inspection station includes at least a portion of a conveyor for parts, which portion is provided with means for attenuating vibration of the moving parts, the conveyor comprising wheeled carriages, in which raised rails are provided for raising the carriages in the region of the inspection station so that during inspection the carriages cease to be carried by the wheels that have carried the carriages through the painting line. 13. The inspection station of claim 10, wherein the not very adherent material includes PTFE. 