An apparatus and method for characterizing gas flow through features fabricated in a hollow part. A pressurized gas is applied to an interior of the part, and this gas pressure flows outward through features fabricated in the part. At the same time, a stabilizing pressurized gas is applied to an exterior part skin; and the stabilizing gas has a controlled temperature differential from the gas applied to the part interior. An infrared signature of escaping gas and the surrounding part skin is analyzed by a classification method. Analysis of this infrared signature classifies the relative flow rate, size and position of the feature fabricated in the part.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A feature inspection system for inspecting a feature extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the feature inspection system comprising: a first gas of a first density adapted to flow over the outer surface around the feature; a second gas of a second density different from the first density and adapted to flow into the cavity and through the feature; an infrared camera comprising a lens and adapted to provide a thermal image of an area of the outer surface around the feature, the thermal image comprising an array of elements representing a plurality of temperatures; a generally annular piece sized to fit around the lens, the annular piece comprising gas discharge passages spaced around a periphery of the annular piece and in fluid communication with the first gas for directing the first gas over the area of the outer surface; and a control in electrical communications with the infrared camera and causing the first gas and the second gas to simultaneously flow over the outer surface and through the feature, respectively, and the control processing the plurality of temperatures to identify a qualitative characteristic of the feature. 2. The feature inspection system of claim 1 wherein the second density is lower than the first density. 3. The feature inspection system of claim 1 wherein the first gas comprises air and the second gas comprises helium. 4. The feature inspection system of claim 1 wherein the gas discharge passages in the annular piece are angled toward a centerline of the annular piece. 5. A feature inspection system for inspecting a feature extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the feature inspection system comprising: a first gas adapted to flow over the outer surface around the feature; a first device for maintaining the first gas at a first temperature; a first pressure regulator for regulating a first pressure of the first gas; a second gas adapted to flow into the cavity and through the feature; a second device for maintaining the second gas at a second temperature different from the first temperature; a second pressure regulator for regulating a second pressure of the second gas; an infrared camera adapted to provide a thermal image of an area of the outer surface around the feature, the thermal image comprising an array of elements representing a plurality of temperatures; and a control in electrical communications with the infrared camera and causing the first gas at the higher temperature and the first pressure and the second gas at the lower temperature and the second pressure to simultaneously flow over the outer surface and through the feature, respectively, and the control processing the plurality of temperatures to identify a qualitative characteristic of the feature. 6. The feature inspection system of claim 5 wherein the first device is a heater for maintaining the first gas at a higher temperature and the second device is a chiller for maintaining the second gas at a lower temperature. 7. The feature inspection system of claim 5 wherein the first device is a chiller for maintaining the first gas at a lower temperature and the second device is a heater for maintaining the second gas at a higher temperature. 8. A feature inspection system for inspecting a feature extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the feature inspection system comprising: a first gas adapted to flow over the outer surface around the feature; a first pressure regulator for regulating a first pressure of the first gas; a second gas adapted to flow into the cavity and through feature; a second pressure regulator for regulating a second pressure of the second gas; a pressure sensor providing a pressure feedback signal representing an ambient pressure near the feature; an infrared camera adapted to provide a thermal image of an area of the outer surface around the opening of the feature, the thermal image comprising an array of elements representing a plurality of temperatures; and a control in electrical communications with the pressure sensor, the first and the second pressure regulators and the infrared camera, the control operating the first and the second pressure regulators to cause the first and the second pressures to maintain respective constant relationships with the ambient pressure, and the control processing the plurality of temperatures to identity a qualitative characteristic of the feature. 9. A feature inspection system for inspecting a feature extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the feature inspection system comprising: a first gas of a first density adapted to flow over the outer surface around the feature; a first device for maintaining the first gas at a first temperature; a first pressure regulator for regulating a first pressure of the first gas; a second gas of a second density different than the first density and adapted to flow into the cavity and through the feature; a second device for maintaining the second gas at a second temperature different from the first temperature; a second pressure regulator for regulating a second pressure of the second gas; a pressure sensor providing a pressure feedback signal representing an ambient pressure near the feature; an infrared camera adapted to provide a thermal image of an area of the outer surface around the feature, the thermal image comprising an array of elements representing a plurality of temperatures; and a control in electrical communications with the first and the second devices, the first and the second pressure regulators, the pressure sensor and the infrared camera and causing the first gas and the second gas to simultaneously flow over the outer surface and through the feature, respectively, and the control processing the plurality of temperatures to identify a qualitative characteristic of the feature. 10. The feature inspection system of claim 9 wherein the feature is a plurality of holes and the feature characteristic is one of a good hole, an absence of a hole and a partially blocked hole. 11. A method of inspecting a feature extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the method comprising: flowing a first gas at a first regulated pressure over the outer surface around the feature; simultaneously flowing a second gas at a second regulated pressure and of a different density than the first gas into the cavity to flow through the feature; generating a thermal image of the outer surface around the feature in response to the simultaneous flowing of the first gas and the second gas; and processing the thermal image to identify a qualitative characteristic of the feature. 12. The method of claim 11 wherein the second gas is less dense than the first gas. 13. The method of claim 11 wherein the second gas is helium and the first gas is air. 14. A method of inspecting a feature extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the method comprising: flowing a first gas of a first regulated pressure and a first temperature over the outer surface around the feature; simultaneously flowing a second gas of a second regulated pressure and a second different temperature into the cavity to flow through the feature; generating a thermal image of the outer surface around the feature in response to the simultaneous flowing of the first gas and the second gas; and processing the thermal image to identify a qualitative characteristic of the feature. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the first temperature is higher than the second temperature. 16. The method of claim 14 wherein the first temperature is lower than the second temperature. 17. A method of inspecting a feature extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the method comprising: flowing a first gas of a first pressure over the outer surface around the feature; simultaneously flowing a second gas of a second pressure into the cavity to flow through the feature; determining an ambient pressure around the feature; maintaining the first pressure and the second pressure at respective constant relationships with respect to the ambient pressure; generating a thermal image of the outer surface around the feature in response to the simultaneous flowing of the first gas and the second gas; and processing the thermal image to identify a qualitative characteristic of the feature. 18. A method of inspecting a feature extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the method comprising: flowing a first gas of a first density, a first pressure and a first temperature over the outer surface around the feature; simultaneously flowing a second gas of a second different density, a second different pressure and a second different temperature into the cavity to flow through the feature; determining an ambient pressure around the feature; maintaining the first pressure and the second pressure at respective constant relationships with respect to the ambient pressure; generating a thermal image of the outer surface around the feature in response to the simultaneous flowing of the first gas and the second gas; and processing the thermal image to identify a qualitative characteristic of the feature. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein the feature is a plurality of holes and the characteristic feature is one of a good hole, an absence of a hole and a partially blocked hole. 20. An apparatus for inspecting features extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the apparatus comprising: a thermal imaging device comprising a lens; a positioning system for supporting the thermal imaging device and operable to position the lens at a desired position and orientation with respect to one of the features; a source of a pressure regulated first gas; a heater receiving the first gas and providing a flow heated gas; a heating component supported by the positioning system and in fluid communication with the heated gas, the heating component being operable to heat an area of the outer surface around the one of the features; a source of a pressure regulated second gas; a chiller receiving the second gas and providing a flow of cooled gas into the cavity and to the one of the features; a programmable control in electrical communications with the thermal imaging device, the positioning system, the heater and the chiller and operable to first heat the area of the outer surface around the one of the features and simultaneously cause the cooled gas to flow into the cavity, the control being further operable to cause the thermal imaging device to capture and save a thermal image of the area of the outer surface including the one of the features. 21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the heating component further comprises a plurality of nozzles mounted circumferentially around the lens of the thermal imaging device. 22. A method of inspecting features extending from a cavity within a structure to an outer surface of the structure, the method comprising: (a) positioning a thermal imaging device at a desired position and orientation with respect to one of the features; (b) heating an area of the outer surface including the one of the features with a pressure regulated flow of a first gas; (c) simultaneously providing a flow of a pressure regulated cooled gas into the cavity to the one of the features; (d) capturing a thermal image of the area of the outer surface including the one of the features; (e) saving the thermal image; and (f) iterating steps (a)-(e) for others of the features. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the heated gas is air and the cooled gas is helium. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein the method further comprises analyzing the thermal image to identify a qualitative characteristic of the one of the feature. 