A data storage cartridge is equipped with write-once-read-many (WORM) write-protection. The cartridge is compatible with an existing cartridge docking station with a modification to the control logic of the docking station's control module. Specifically, the control logic is altered to recognize that sensing magnets with both sensors requires the docking station to allow data to be written to, but not erased or altered on the cartridge. In this manner, a third possibility of write-protection status is added to the two existing possibilities of full write-protection and no write-protection. Some embodiments of the invention also provide redundant indications of the WORM write-protection status of the cartridge. For example, embodiments of the invention may incorporate a radio-frequency identification (RF) tag within the cartridge and/or a status bit written into a designated WORM register within a media information header during pre-format of the cartridge media.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A data storage cartridge comprising: a cartridge housing; a data storage medium within the cartridge housing; and one or more magnets located on the cartridge housing such that two sensors of a docking station simultaneously detect magnetic fields when the data storage cartridge is interfaced with the docking station. 2. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, wherein the one or more magnets indicate that the data storage cartridge is write-once-read-many (WORM) write-protected. 3. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, wherein the one or more magnets consist of two permanent magnets. 4. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, further comprising a radio frequency (RF) tag, wherein the RF tag indicates the data storage cartridge is WORM write-protected. 5. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, wherein the data storage medium stores information that indicates the data storage cartridge is WORM write-protected. 6. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, wherein the data storage cartridge interfaces with the docking station when inserted within a receptacle of the docking station such that the one or more magnets of the data storage cartridge are proximate the two sensors of the docking station. 7. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, wherein the data storage medium comprises magnetic tape. 8. The data storage cartridge of claim 1, further comprising a slider with three selectable positions: a first position, a middle second position and a third position, wherein the one or more magnets are mounted on the slider and the two sensors both detect the magnetic fields only when the slider is set to the middle second position. 9. A docking station for a data storage cartridge comprising: an interface to receive the data storage cartridge; a first magnetic sensor that sends a first signal to indicate detection of a first magnetic field proximate to the first magnetic sensor; a second magnetic sensor that sends a second signal to indicate detection of a second magnetic field proximate to the second magnetic sensor; and a control module that receives the first and second signals, wherein the control module implements WORM write-protection for the data storage cartridge when the first magnetic sensor detects the first magnetic field and the second magnetic sensor detects the second magnetic field. 10. The docking station of claim 9, wherein the first and second sensors are positioned to detect a first magnet, located on a cartridge housing of the data storage cartridge, that emits the first magnetic field and a second magnet, also located on the cartridge housing, that emits the second magnetic field. 11. The docking station of claim 9, wherein the first and second sensors are positioned to detect a magnet, located on a cartridge housing of the data storage cartridge, that emits the first and second magnetic fields. 12. The docking station of claim 9, wherein the control module includes an RF tag reader, wherein the RF tag reader reads an RF tag on the data storage cartridge interfaced with the docking station to determine if the data storage cartridge has WORM write-protection. 13. The docking station of claim 12, wherein the control module indicates an error when either one or both of the first and second magnetic sensors do not detect any magnetic field, but the RF tag indicates the data storage cartridge has WORM write-protection. 14. The docking station of claim 9, wherein the control module reads a media information header on a data storage media of the data storage cartridge to determine if the data storage cartridge has WORM write-protection. 15. The docking station of claim 14, wherein the control module indicates an error when either one or both of the first and second magnetic sensors do not detect a magnetic field, but the media information header indicates the data storage cartridge has WORM write-protection. 16. A system comprising: a data storage cartridge, the data storage cartridge including, a cartridge housing, a data storage medium within the cartridge housing, and one or more magnets located on the cartridge housing; and a docking station for data storage cartridges, the docking station including, an interface to receive the data storage cartridge, a first magnetic sensor that sends a first signal to indicate detection of a first magnetic field of the one or more magnets, a second magnetic sensor that sends a second signal to indicate detection of the first magnetic field or a first magnetic field of the one or more magnets, and a control module that receives the first and second signals, wherein the control module implements WORM write-protection for the data storage cartridge when the first and second magnetic sensors each detect magnetic fields. 17. The system of claim 16, further comprising: a cartridge store including a plurality of data storage cartridges; and a robotic arm to retrieve data storage cartridges from the cartridge store and place the data storage cartridges from the cartridge store within the interface of the docking station and to return data storage cartridges from the docking station to the cartridge store. 18. The system of claim 17, wherein the docking station is a first docking station, further comprising a second docking station, wherein the robotic arm places the data storage cartridges from the cartridge store within the interface of the first docking station and an interface of the second docking station, wherein the first docking station receives data storage cartridges including magnetic tape and the second docking station receives data storage cartridges including optical discs. 19. The system of claim 16, wherein the control module includes an RF tag reader, wherein the RF tag reader reads an RF tag on the data storage cartridge interfaced with the docking station to determine if the data storage cartridge has WORM write-protection. 20. The system of claim 16, wherein the data storage cartridge comprises a tape cartridge, the data storage media comprises magnetic tape, and the docking station comprises a tape drive, wherein the tape drive reads a media information header on a magnetic tape to determine if the data storage cartridge has WORM write-protection. 