A surgical imaging system includes spaced-apart first and second x-ray sources mounted above a patient support surface. An x-ray detector mounted below the patient support surface generates first x-ray images based upon x-rays from the first x-ray source and second x-ray images based upon x-rays from the second x-ray source. These first and second x-ray images are used to generate a stereofluoroscopic image via a stereo display for a surgeon performing image-guided surgery. The stereofluoroscopic imaging system may be used in conjunction with robotic surgery. A surgical robot operatively controls a surgical tool in an area between the first x-ray source and the x-ray detector, and between the second x-ray source and the x-ray detector. The system may optionally include a first video camera mounted proximate the first x-ray source and a second video camera mounted proximate the second x-ray source. The stereo display selectively displays the first and second video images or the first and second x-ray image, and dissolves between the sources to correlate an outer view with the fluoroscopic view.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical imaging system comprising: a first x-ray source at a first location above a patient support surface; a second x-ray source laterally spaced from the first x-ray source and above the patient support surface; an x-ray detector mounted below the patient support surface, the x-ray detector generating first x-ray images based upon x-rays from the first x-ray source and second x-ray images based upon x-rays from the second x-ray source, wherein the x-ray detector is movable between a first position where the x-ray detector receives x-rays from the first x-ray source and a second position where the x-ray detector receives x-rays from the second x-ray source an actuator for moving the x-ray detector relative to the first x-ray source and the second x-ray source from the first position to the second position and from the second position to the first position; and a first video camera mounted proximate the first x-ray source and a second video camera mounted proximate the second x-ray source, the first video camera generating first video images, the second video camera generating second video images. 2. The system of claim 1 further including a surgical robot operatively controlling a surgical tool in an area between the first x-ray source and the x-ray detector, and between the second x-ray source and the x-ray detector. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the first video camera has a field of view similar to that of the first x-ray source and the second video camera has a field of view similar to that of the second x-ray source. 4. The system of claim 3 further including a stereo display displaying the first and second x-ray images. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the stereo display selectively displays the first and second video images or the first and second x-ray images. 6. The system of claim 1 further including a stereo display displaying the first and second x-ray images. 7. The system of claim 1 wherein the first x-ray source alternates generating x-rays with the second x-ray source. 8. The system of claim 1 wherein the actuator moves the x-ray detector in a first direction from the first position to the second position and in a second direction, opposite the first direction, from the second position to the first position. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the actuator moves the x-ray detector substantially linearly. 10. A surgical imaging system comprising: a first x-ray source at a first location above a patient support surface; a second x-ray source laterally spaced from the first x-ray source and above the patient support surface; an x-ray detector mounted below the patient support surface, the x-ray detector generating first x-ray images based upon x-rays from the first x-ray source and second x-ray images based upon x-rays from the second x-ray source, wherein the first x-ray source and the second x-ray source are mounted to move along an arc above the patient support surface; and a surgical robot operatively controlling a surgical tool in an area between the first x-ray source and the x-ray detector, and between the second x-ray source and the x-ray detector, the x-ray detector generating the first x-ray images and the second x-ray images while the surgical tool is between the first x-ray source and the x-ray detector and between the second x-ray source and the x-ray detector, respectively. 11. The system of claim 10 wherein the first x-ray source and the second x-ray source are mounted to four-bar linkages. 12. The system of claim 10 wherein the detector is mounted to move along an arc. 13. A surgical imaging system comprising: a first x-ray source at a first location above a patient support surface; a second x-ray source laterally spaced from the first x-ray source and above the patient support surface; an x-ray detector mounted below the patient support surface, the x-ray detector generating first x-ray images based upon x-rays from the first x-ray source and second x-ray images based upon x-rays from the second x-ray source; an actuator moving the x-ray detector between a first position where the x-ray detector receives x-rays from the first x-ray source and a second position where the x-ray detector receives x-rays from the second x-ray source; and a surgical robot operatively controlling a surgical tool in an area between the first x-ray source and the x-ray detector, and between the second x-ray source and the x-ray detector, the x-ray detector generating the first x-ray images and the second x-ray images while the surgical tool is between the first x-ray source and the x-ray detector and between the second x-ray source and the x-ray detector, respectively. 