A coordinate measurement device comprises an articulated arm and a laser scanner assembly. The articulated arm can have a first end, a second end, and a plurality of jointed arm segments therebetween. Each arm segment can define at least one axis of rotation, and a last axis of rotation can be defined by bearings near a distal end of the arm. The laser scanner assembly can couple to the distal end of the arm. The arm can continuously generate trigger signals that are received by the laser scanner and indicate a time at which the arm's position is measured.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A coordinate measurement device comprising: an articulated arm having a first end, a second end, and a plurality of jointed arm segments therebetween, each arm segment defining at least one axis of rotation, a last axis of rotation being defined by bearings near a distal end of the arm; and a laser scanner assembly coupled to the distal end of the arm, the laser scanner configured to generate measurement data continuously, wherein the arm continuously generates trigger signals which are received by the laser scanner and indicate a time at which the arm's position is measured. 2. The CMM of claim 1 wherein the trigger signal is created by a function generator in electronics in the arm. 3. The CMM of claim 1, wherein the laser scanner assembly is configured to output image data including the including an indication of the time at which the arm's position is measured. 4. The CMM of claim 1, wherein the laser scanner is configured to generated measurement data independent of the trigger signals. 5. A method of operating a coordinate measurement device comprising: continuously measuring the position of an articulated arm; generating a plurality of trigger signals upon each measurement of the position of the articulated arm; transmitting the trigger signals to a scanner at an end of the articulated arm; continuously acquiring a scanner measurement from the scanner; and associating the scanner measurement with one or more trigger signals. 6. The method of claim 5, wherein the step of continuously measuring comprises continuously outputting the angular position of a plurality of rotatable joints. 7. The method of claim 5, wherein the scanner is a laser scanner. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein the scanner measurement comprises coordinate measurements. 9. The method of claim 5, wherein the scanner measurement is associated with a plurality of trigger signals. 10. The CMM of claim 5, wherein the step of continuously acquiring a scanner measurement is independent of the trigger signals. 