The present invention relates to transducers, their use and fabrication. The transducers convert between mechanical and electrical energy. Some transducers of the present invention include a pre-strained polymer. The pre-strain improves the conversion between electrical and mechanical energy. The present invention also relates to devices including an electroactive polymer to convert between electrical and mechanical energy. The present invention further relates to compliant electrodes that conform to the shape of a polymer included in a transducer. The present invention provides methods for fabricating electromechanical devices including one or more electroactive polymers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A transducer for converting between mechanical and electrical energy, the transducer comprising: at least two electrodes; a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field and/or arranged in a manner which causes a change in electric field in response to deflection of the polymer, wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus at most about 100 MPa; and a layer laminated to at least a portion of one of the polymer and the at least two electrodes. 2. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer distributes mechanical forces across the polymer more uniformly during deflection than mechanical forces produced in the polymer without the layer. 3. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer is laminated between the at least two electrodes. 4. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer increases breakdown strength of the transducer. 5. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer is used to compensate for manufacturing defects in the polymer. 6. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer improves a mechanical property of the transducer. 7. The transducer of claim 6 wherein the layer improves stiffness for the transducer. 8. The transducer of claim 7 wherein the layer has a higher stiffness than the polymer. 9. The transducer of claim 1 wherein the layer is an adhesive layer. 10. A transducer for converting between mechanical and electrical energy, the transducer comprising: at least two electrodes; a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field and/or arranged in a manner which causes a change in electric field in response to deflection of the polymer, wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus at most about 100 MPa; and a layer mechanically coupled to at least a portion of one of the polymer and the at least two electrodes. 11. The transducer of claim 10 wherein the layer is adhered to the polymer using an adhesive or glue. 12. The transducer of claim 10 wherein the layer distributes mechanical forces across the polymer more uniformly during deflection than mechanical forces produced in the polymer without the layer. 13. The transducer of claim 10 wherein the layer is mechanically coupled between the at least two electrodes. 14. The transducer of claim 10 wherein the layer improves a mechanical property of the transducer. 15. The transducer of claim 14 wherein the layer improves stiffness for the transducer. 16. A transducer for converting between mechanical and electrical energy, the transducer comprising: at least two electrodes; a polymer arranged in a manner which causes a portion of the polymer to deflect in response to a change in electric field and/or arranged in a manner which causes a change in electric field in response to deflection of the polymer, wherein the polymer has an elastic modulus at most about 100 MPa; and a layer mechanically coupled to at least a portion of the polymer and disposed between a first electrode of the at least two electrodes that is configured to electrically communicate with a first surface of the polymer and a second electrode of the at least two electrodes that is configured to electrically communicate with a second surface of the polymer on an opposite side of the polymer relative to the first surface, wherein the layer increases breakdown strength of the transducer. 