A method and apparatus for scheduling are disclosed. The apparatus applies tests to microscope slides, where the slides are loaded in trays. Each tray is treated as a batch, and batches may be interleaved to reduce the total running time of testing all slides in up to three batches. The batches of slides have protocols that define the application of reagents such as primary antibodies. The protocols define open times, where no common resources are used, and use times, where common resources are used. The scheduler operates to ensure that the use times between batches does not overlap, without leaving the next step in the protocol for an excessive period of time.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method of processing a plurality of biological samples in an apparatus, comprising: scheduling delivery of a reagent to a plurality of sample slides arranged in batches, via a robotic arm of the apparatus, according to a sequence of steps in a protocol, including: establishing, using a controller executed on a computer, a plurality of protocols for the batches, respectively, with each protocol having at least one block of dispensing and incubation operations, defining use and free times, respectively; and creating a schedule that contains interleaved blocks from each of the protocols by time shifting the blocks such that use time violations between the blocks are avoided, wherein the use time is a time when the robotic arm is in use by a step of a given protocol from among the plurality of protocols, and the free time is a time where duration of the step of the given protocol has not completed but the robotic arm is not in use by the given protocol, and use time violations occur where the robotic arm is required to be in use by two protocols from among the plurality of protocols at the same time, wherein the creating further comprises creating the schedule that contains interleaved blocks from each of the protocols by time shifting the blocks such that open time violations between the blocks are avoided, wherein an open time violation occurs when a gap between two blocks within the same protocol exceeds a predetermined maximum time indicated by a subsequent block among the two blocks. 2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the method includes establishing a new schedule to accommodate one or more batches, added after commencement of operations of an initial scheduling. 3. A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein if a new schedule cannot be generated, to accommodate a batch added after commencement of operations of an initial scheduling, one or more hydration steps are included to extend a start time of the added batch. 4. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least two protocols are established for each batch. 5. An apparatus for processing a plurality of biological samples comprising: a plurality of reagent containers; a plurality of independently accessible sample slides arranged in batches; a robotic arm; a reagent transfer device for transferring reagents from the reagent containers to the sample slides; an identifier scanner; a controller for operating the apparatus, wherein the controller schedules reagent delivery to a plurality of sample slides arranged in batches, wherein the schedule includes: establishing a protocol for each of the batches, with each protocol having at least one block of dispensing and incubation operations, defining use and free times, respectively and wherein the controller creates the schedule by interleaving blocks from each of the protocols by time shifting the blocks such that use time violations between the blocks are avoided, wherein the use time is a time when the robotic arm is in use by a step of a given protocol from among the plurality of protocols, and the free time is a time where duration of the step of the given protocol has not completed but the robotic arm is not in use by the given protocol, and use time violations occur where the robotic arm is required to be in use by two protocols from among the plurality of protocols at the same time, wherein the controller creates the schedule that contains the interleaved blocks from each of the protocols by time shifting the blocks such that open time violations between the blocks are avoided, wherein an open time violation occurs when a gap between two blocks within the same protocol exceeds a predetermined maximum time indicated by a subsequent block among the two blocks. 