In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, a method for haptic sculpting of a physical object using a haptic device comprises defining a haptic object for aiding in the sculpting of the physical object, dynamically modifying a configuration of the haptic object in response to a medical device coupled to the haptic device being in proximity to the haptic object, and providing haptic cues to guide a user of the medical device in sculpting at least a portion of the physical object corresponding to the haptic object.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A haptic surgical system comprising: a computer-aided surgery system; a surgical tool for performing computer-aided surgical operations on a patient; a display device for displaying a haptic object and a computer reconstructed diagnostic image of an internal anatomy of the patient, said haptic object being defined with respect to said patient's anatomy by superimposing the diagnostic image and the haptic object; a haptic device coupled to the computer-aided surgery system and the surgical tool, the haptic device communicating one or more haptic cues to a user guiding the surgical tool based at least in part on at least one extension from said haptic object, created based at least in part on position of the surgical tool or the haptic device or proximity of the surgical tool or the haptic device to the haptic object, said at least one extension being displayed on the display device to depict the extension's relationship to said patient's anatomy. 2. The haptic surgical system of claim 1, wherein said display device is selected from the group consisting of a monitor, a projection display, a holographic display and a wearable display. 3. The haptic surgical system of claim 1, wherein said computer reconstructed diagnostic image of the patient's anatomy is selected from the group consisting of an x-ray image, a digital x-ray image, a computer tomography image, a computer tomography angiographic image, a computer tomography myelographic image, a magnetic resonance imaging image, a magnetic resonance angiographic image, a magnetic resonance spectrometric image, a magnetic resonance myelographic image, a flair image, a two-dimensional fluoroscopic image, a three-dimensional fluoroscopic image, a two-dimensional ultrasonic image, a three-dimensional ultrasonic image, an ultrasound microscopy image, a laproscopic ultrasound image, an optical image, an isotopic image, a laser depth map, a position emission tomography image, a single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) image, a magnetic resonance venography (MRV) image, and a contrast enhanced magnetic resonance venography (CEMRV) image. 4. The haptic surgical system of claim 1, further comprising a master haptic device remote from said haptic device for communicating said one or more haptic cues to said user located remotely from said haptic device. 5. The haptic surgical system of claim 4, wherein said master haptic device is located remotely from said medical device. 6. A haptic surgical system comprising: a computer-aided surgery system; a haptic device coupled to said computer-aided surgery system; and a medical device coupled to said haptic device, said haptic device operable to communicate one or more haptic cues to a user guiding said medical device, based at least in part on a modification in a configuration of a haptic object defined with respect to a patient's anatomy, said haptic object comprising a plurality of segments and said modification of said configuration of said haptic object comprising dynamically modifying at least one of said plurality of segments of said haptic object to prevent said medical device from following an abrupt transition from said at least one segment to another of said plurality of segments. 7. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, wherein said modification of said configuration of said haptic object is in response to satisfaction of one or more criteria. 8. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, wherein said modification of said segment comprises extension of said segment from its original configuration. 9. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, wherein said modification of said segment comprises extension of said segment from its original configuration in response to said medical device being in proximity to said segment. 10. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, wherein said modification of said segment comprises extension of said segment from its original configuration in response to said medical device penetrating said segment. 11. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, wherein said modification of said configuration of said haptic object comprises creation of a new haptic segment extending from said haptic object. 12. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, wherein said modification of said configuration of said haptic object comprises creation of a new haptic segment extending from said haptic object in response to said medical device being in proximity to said haptic object. 13. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, wherein said modification of said haptic object is based at least in part on a position of said medical device. 14. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, wherein said modification of said haptic object is based at least in part on a proximity of said medical device to said haptic object. 15. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, wherein said modification of said haptic object is based at least in part on penetration of said haptic object by said medical device. 16. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, wherein said haptic device is communicatively coupled to said computer-aided surgery system. 17. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, wherein said medical device is mechanically coupled to said haptic device. 18. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, further comprising a slave device communicatively coupled with said haptic device, wherein said haptic device is remote from said slave device. 19. The haptic surgical system of claim 18, wherein said medical device is mechanically coupled with said slave device. 20. The haptic surgical system of claim 18, wherein said haptic device is remote from said medical device. 21. The haptic surgical system of claim 6, further including: a display device which displays a superimposition of a computer reconstructed diagnostic image depicting the interior anatomy of the patient and a representation of the haptic object to illustrate a relationship between the haptic object and the patient's internal anatomy. 22. The haptic surgical system of claim 21, wherein said computer reconstructed diagnostic image of the patient's anatomy is selected from the group consisting of a two-dimensional medical diagnostic dataset, a three-dimensional medical diagnostic dataset, a sketch and a holographic image. 23. A method for haptic sculpting of a physical object using a haptic device, comprising: defining a haptic object for constraining a medical device during sculpting of said physical object; temporarily modifying a configuration of said haptic object in response to the medical device coupled to said haptic device being in proximity to said haptic object to temporarily modify constraining by the haptic object to help a user control the medical device adjacent corners and abrupt transitions of the haptic object; and providing one or more haptic cues to guide a user of said medical device in sculpting at least a portion of said physical object corresponding to said haptic object. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein said temporarily modifying step comprises extending a portion of said haptic object in response to said haptic device being in proximity to said portion of said haptic object. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein said temporarily modifying step comprises dynamically extending a portion of said haptic object in response to said haptic device penetrating said portion of said haptic object. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein said temporarily modifying step comprises dynamically creating a new haptic segment extending from said haptic object. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein said temporarily modifying step comprises dynamically extending at least one segment of a plurality of segments of said haptic object to prevent said medical device from following an abrupt transition from said at least one segment to a second segment of said plurality of segments. 28. The method of claim 23, further including: reconstructing data generated by a non-invasive diagnostic imaging apparatus to generate a diagnostic image of the patient's anatomy; generating a human-viewable display of the diagnostic image; superimposing a representation of the haptic object on the display to illustrate a physical relationship between the haptic object and the patient's anatomy; dynamically modifying the haptic object representation display as the haptic object is dynamically extended. 29. A method for haptic sculpting of a physical object using a haptic device, comprising: logically dividing a haptic object for said physical object into a plurality of segments; determining whether at least one criteria for modifying at least one of said plurality of segments is satisfied; eliminating abrupt transactions between adjoining segments by dynamically modifying a configuration of said at least one segment in response to said at least one criteria being satisfied; and providing one or more haptic cues based in part on the haptic object to guide a user of a medical device associated with said haptic device in sculpting at least one portion of said physical object corresponding to said haptic object without abrupt transitions from one segment to another. 30. The method of claim 29, further comprising selecting, from said plurality of segments, said at least one segment to be dynamically modified. 31. The method of claim 29, further comprising selecting said at least one segment to be modified from said plurality of segments based at least in part on a proximity of said medical device to said at least one segment. 32. The method of claim 29, further comprising selecting said at least one segment to be modified from said plurality of segments based at least in part on a penetration of said at least one segment by said medical device. 33. The method of claim 29, wherein said at least one criteria is a criteria selected from the group consisting of proximity of said medical device to said haptic object and penetration of said haptic object by said medical device. 34. The method of claim 29, further comprising returning said at least one segment of said haptic object to its original configuration. 35. The method of claim 29, further comprising returning said at least one segment of said haptic object to its original configuration in response to at least one criteria for returning said haptic object to its original configuration being satisfied. 36. The method of claim 29, further comprising selecting from said plurality of segments, a second segment to be dynamically extended. 37. The method of claim 36, wherein said second segment and said at least one segment are separated by a boundary of high curvature. 38. The method of claim 29, wherein said dynamically modifying step comprises dynamically extending said at least one segment to prevent said medical device from following an abrupt transition from said at least one segment to a second segment of said plurality of segments. 