Methods and systems for sorting compounds and compound holders into batches for subsequent processing are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of sorting samples, the method comprising: a) providing at least one source unit having a first footprint and comprising a plurality of sample containers disposed in a first plurality of apertures, and at least one destination unit having a second footprint and comprising a second plurality of apertures, wherein the second footprint differs in size from the first footprint and/or the second plurality of apertures differs in number from the first plurality of apertures, and wherein either or both the first plurality of apertures and the second plurality of apertures are configured to correspond to a spatial arrangement of apertures of a standard 96 well microtiter plate or a standard 384-well microtiter plate; b) selectively transferring one or more of the plurality of sample containers to the destination unit using at least one automatic sorting mechanism, based upon one or more selected criteria, wherein the selected criteria comprise one or more sample descriptors and wherein samples comprising at least one common sample descriptor are grouped together in one or more destination units, and wherein the sample descriptors comprise a level of sample purity; and, c) repeating (a)-(b) at least once, thereby sorting the samples. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the source unit comprises at least one tube holder configured in a non-standard format. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the destination unit comprises a plurality of apertures configured in a non-standard format. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the destination unit comprises a plurality of apertures configured to correspond to a spatial arrangement of wells of a standard 96 well microtiter plate format or a standard 384 well microtiter plate format. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the source unit comprises at least one tube holder having the first plurality of apertures configured in a non-standard format and the destination unit comprises a tube holder having the second plurality of apertures configured to correspond to the spatial arrangement of a standard 96 well microtiter plate format or a standard 384 well microtiter plate format. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the source unit comprises at least one tube holder having the first plurality of apertures configured to correspond to the spatial arrangement of a standard 96 well microtiter plate format or a standard 384 well microtiter plate format and the destination unit comprises a tube holder having the second plurality of apertures configured in a non-standard format. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the source unit comprises at least one tube holder having the first plurality of apertures configured to correspond to the spatial arrangement of a standard 96 well microtiter plate format or a standard 384 well microtiter plate format and the destination unit comprises a tube holder having the second plurality of apertures configured to correspond to the spatial arrangement of a standard 96 well microtiter plate format or a standard 384 well microtiter plate format. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the automatic sorting mechanism transfers the sample to one or more specific locations while simultaneously moving in a three-dimensional manner along x-y-z axes. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the transferring further comprises placing the samples in one or more specified locations in at least one holding area. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected criteria are stored in at least one database. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected criteria comprise one or more physical characteristics of at least one sample in the sample containers. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected criteria comprise at least one mass of at least one sample in the sample containers. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected criteria comprise at least one structure of at least one sample in the sample containers. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected criteria comprise at least one specific location of at least one of the sample containers in the at least one source unit. 15. The method of claim 1, wherein the automatic sorting mechanism comprises one or more carrousels and the method comprises mounting the at least one source unit on at least one of the carrousels. 16. The method of claim 1, wherein the automatic sorting mechanism comprises one or more carrousels and the method comprises mounting a plurality of source units on at least one of the carrousels. 17. The method of claim 1, wherein at least about 48 source units are provided and wherein the transferring comprises transferring one or more of the sample containers from the at least about 48 source units to at least about 6 destination units. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein the repeating comprises transferring one or more of the plurality of sample containers to at least one additional destination unit in (b), or providing at least one additional source unit in (a), or both, wherein the additional source unit comprises an additional plurality of sample containers. 19. The method of claim 1, further comprising: suspending a sample using the automatic sorting mechanism and processing the sample at one or more work stations as the sample is suspended. 20. The method of claim 1, further comprising: grouping the sample containers into at least one batch according to similar or identical criteria. 21. The method of claim 1, further comprising: arranging the sample containers into one or more discrete groups in the at least one destination unit. 22. The method of claim 1, further comprising: assigning at least one source code to the at least one source unit, which source code stores criteria information about each sample in the sample containers. 23. The method of claim 1, wherein the source unit comprises at least one tube holder, which tube holder comprises the first plurality of apertures configured to correspond to a spatial arrangement of wells of a standard 96 well microtiter plate format or a standard 384 well microtiter plate format. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein a plurality of tubes are located in the plurality of apertures. 25. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sample containers comprise a plurality of tubes. 26. The method of claim 25, further comprising: i) weighing at least one sample or at least one tube to obtain a first mass, which first mass comprises a tare; ii) adding a material to the sample or the tube; iii) weighing the sample or the tube to obtain a second mass; and iv) deducting the tare from the second mass to obtain a mass of the material. 27. The method of claim 25, further comprising: grouping the sample containers into batches of up to about 96 tubes. 28. The method of claim 25, further comprising: grouping the sample containers into batches of up to about 384 tubes. 29. The method of claim 25, further comprising: importing data relating to the tubes. 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the imported data comprises tare weights of the tubes. 31. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of sample containers comprises an associated sample code, which associated sample code stores detailed information about each sample in the sample containers. 32. The method of claim 31, wherein the detailed information comprises criteria information, which criteria information is accessed when selectively transferring one or more of the plurality of sample containers. 33. The method of claim 31, wherein the detailed information comprises a final registry code of one or more of the plurality of sample containers, which final registry code stores sample processing information. 34. The method of claim 31, wherein each of the associated sample codes is read as the transferring occurs. 35. The method of claim 31, wherein the detailed information about each sample in the sample containers is stored in at least one database. 36. The method of claim 1, wherein the transferring comprises placing the sample containers in one or more specified locations in the at least one destination unit. 37. The method of claim 36, further comprising: conveying information about the specified locations to at least one database. 38. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one destination unit is assigned at least one destination code. 39. The method of claim 38, further comprising: automatically reading the at least one destination code. 40. The method of claim 1, further comprising: labeling the source unit, and/or the destination unit, and/or at least one sample, or at least one container containing the sample, with source unit information, and/or destination unit information, and/or sample information, respectively, wherein the information is applied to the source unit, the destination unit, the sample, or to the container, with at least one labeling mechanism. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein updated information is applied after the sample has been processed at one or more workstations. 42. The method of claim 40, wherein the labeling mechanism comprises at least one laser etching unit. 43. The method of claim 40, wherein the labeling mechanism comprises at least one ink jet labeling unit. 44. The method of claim 40, wherein the source unit information comprises any information that concerns a location of a source unit, or a location of any material, container, sample, or sample container that is located in, and/or associated with, the source unit. 45. The method of claim 40, wherein the destination unit information comprises one or more destination codes, and/or information that communicates a status, a condition, contents, and/or a location, of a destination unit. 46. The method of claim 40, wherein the sample information comprises one or more of a sample code, a mass of the sample, a starting position of the sample, a destination position of the sample and/or a registration code of the sample, which registration code stores sample processing information. 47. The method of claim 46, further comprising: reading the sample information using at least one optical system reader. 48. The method of claim 46, further comprising: reading the sample information by manual/visual inspection. 49. A system for sorting samples, the system comprising: at least one source unit having a first footprint and comprising a first plurality of apertures for a plurality of sample containers; at least one destination unit having a second footprint and configured to receive one or more sample containers in a second plurality of apertures, wherein the second footprint differs in size from the first footprint and/or the second plurality of apertures differs in number from the first plurality of apertures, and wherein either or both the first plurality of apertures and the second plurality of apertures are configured to correspond to the spatial arrangement of a standard 96 well microtiter plate or a standard 384-well microtiter plate; at least one sorting device comprising at least one automatic sorting mechanism, at least one holding fixture to receive the source unit, and at least one loading fixture to receive the destination unit; and, at least one central processing unit which directs the repetitive transfer of one or more sample containers from the source unit to the destination unit based upon one or more selected criteria, wherein the selected criteria comprise one or more descriptors and wherein the central processing unit is configured to group samples, or sample containers, comprising at least one common descriptor together in one or more destination units, and wherein the common descriptor comprises a level of sample purity. 50. The system of claim 49, wherein the source unit comprises at least one tube holder configured in a non-standard format and the destination unit comprises at least one tube holder, which tube holder comprises the second plurality of apertures configured to correspond to the spatial arrangement of a standard 96 well microtiter plate format or a standard 384 well microtiter plate format. 51. The system of claim 49, wherein the source unit comprises at least one tube holder, which tube holder comprises the first plurality of apertures configured to correspond to the spatial arrangement of a standard 96 well microtiter plate format or a standard 384 well microtiter plate format and the destination unit comprises at least one tube holder configured in a non-standard format. 52. The system of claim 49, wherein the source unit comprises at least one tube holder, which tube holder comprises the first plurality of apertures configured to correspond to the spatial arrangement of a standard 96 well microtiter plate format or a standard 384 well microtiter plate format, and the destination unit comprises at least one tube holder, which tube holder comprises the second plurality of apertures configured to correspond to the spatial arrangement of a standard 96 well microtiter plate format or a standard 384 well microtiter plate format. 53. The system of claim 49, wherein the automatic sorting mechanism comprises one or more transferring units that move samples and/or the sample containers to one or more specific locations while simultaneously moving in a three-dimensional manner along x-y-z axes. 54. The system of claim 49, further comprising: one or more balances, which balances are configured to determine a mass of a sample, the sample container, or both. 55. The system of claim 49, further comprising: at least one fluid handling unit, which handling unit dispenses or extracts a specified amount of fluid liquid to or from one or more sample containers. 56. The system of claim 49, wherein the central processing unit is configured to import data relating to the sample containers. 57. The system of claim 56, wherein the imported data comprises tare weights of the sample containers. 58. The system of claim 49, wherein the source unit comprises at least one tube holder, which tube holder is configured to receive at least one of the sample containers. 59. The system of claim 58, wherein the tube holder comprises a plurality of apertures configured to correspond to a spatial arrangement of wells of a standard 96 microtiter plate well format or a standard 384 microtiter plate well format. 60. The system of claim 49, wherein a plurality of sample containers is located in the at least one source unit. 61. The system of claim 58, further comprising: at least one central database, which at least one central database is integrally associated with the at least one central processing unit and comprises data corresponding to the plurality of samples or sample containers, the at least one source unit, the at least one destination unit, and/or the at least one sorting device. 62. The system of claim 60, further comprising: at least one holding station, which holding station receives one or more samples or sample containers before, or after, the samples are transferred. 63. The system of claim 60, wherein the source unit is assigned at least one source code, which source code stores detailed information about the source unit, the plurality of samples or the sample containers. 64. The system of claim 63, further comprising: at least one automated mechanism for reading the at least one source code. 65. The system of claim 60, wherein each of the plurality of samples or sample containers comprise an associated sample code, which associated sample code stores detailed information about each of the plurality of samples or sample containers. 66. The system of claim 65, further comprising: at least one automated mechanism for reading each of the associated sample codes. 67. The system of claim 60, further comprising: at least one labeling mechanism configured to apply at least one label on at least one source unit, and/or at least one destination unit, and/or at least one sample or sample container. 68. The system of claim 67, further comprising at least one automatic mechanism for reading the label. 69. The system of claim 67, wherein the labeling mechanism comprises at least one inkjet labeling unit. 70. The system of claim 67, wherein the labeling mechanism comprises at least one laser etching unit. 71. The system of claim 49, further comprising: at least one work station, which work station processes one or more samples, or one or more sample containers according to specified instructions before the sample containers are transferred. 72. The system of claim 71, wherein the work station comprises at least one mass spectroscopy units. 73. The system of claim 49, wherein the at least one sorting device comprises one or more carrousels configured to receive at least one source unit or at least one destination unit. 74. The system of claim 73, wherein a plurality of source units are located in the carrousels. 75. The system of claim 49, wherein the at least one destination unit is assigned at least one destination code in the at least one central processing unit. 76. The system of claim 75, further comprising: at least one automated mechanism for reading the at least one destination code. 77. A method of sorting samples, the method comprising: a) providing at least one source unit, which at least one source unit comprises a plurality of apertures, which apertures comprise a first footprint; b) placing one or more samples in the at least one source unit, which one or more samples comprise at least one associated sample code, which at least one associated sample code stores detailed information about each of the one or more samples; c) reading the at least one associated sample code of each of the samples as each of the samples is placed in the at least one source unit; d) sending the detailed information about the plurality of samples to at least one database; e) assigning at least one source code to the at least one source unit, which at least one source code stores the detailed information about the one or more samples placed in the at least one source unit; f) loading the at least one source unit into at least one sorting device, which at least one sorting device comprises at least one automatic sorting mechanism; g) scanning the source code of the at least one source unit; h) designating the at least one source unit to at least one specific position under the at least one automatic sorting mechanism; i) sending information about the at least one specific position to the at least one database; j) loading at least one destination unit in the at least one sorting device, which at least one destination unit comprises at least one second footprint, different than the first footprint, and at least one destination code; k) recording the at least one destination code as the at least one destination unit is loaded in the at least one sorting device; l) accessing the at least one database; m) selecting one or more of the samples in the at least one source unit for sorting; n) transferring one or more of the samples from the at least one source unit into one or more specified locations in the at least one destination unit using the at least one automatic sorting mechanism; o) conveying information about the one or more specified locations of the one or more samples to the at least one database; and p) repeating (a)-(o) at least once. 