Disclosed is a method and apparatus system for aligning a multi-unit storage system. The alignment system for a storage apparatus includes a first and second storage unit which includes media support locations. The media support locations are capable of supporting at least one storage media element and at least one storage device adapted to store and retrieve data to and from the storage media element associated with at least one of the storage units. The storage apparatus further includes at least one robotic system, an alignment indication device and an alignment means capable of positioning the first and second storage unit substantially in alignment for the robotic system to access the media support locations and the storage device wherein the alignment means cooperates with the alignment indication device to confirm the positioning is in alignment.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An alignment system for a storage apparatus comprising: a first and second storage unit comprising media support locations; the support locations capable of supporting at least one storage media element; at least one storage device adapted to store and retrieve data to and from the media element associated with at least one of the storage units; at least one robotic system; an alignment indication device; an alignment means capable of positioning the first and second storage unit substantially in alignment for the robotic system to access the media support locations and the storage device wherein the alignment means cooperates with the alignment indication device to confirm the positioning is in alignment. 2. The alignment system of claim 1 wherein the storage units comprise a storage library. 3. The alignment system of claim 1 wherein the storage device is disposed in one of the storage units. 4. The alignment system of claim 1 wherein the alignment indication device further cooperates with the robotic system to confirm the positioning is in aligmnent. 5. The alignment system of claim 4 wherein the robotic system comprises a means to traverse across the storage units in a traverse path wherein the alignment is confirmed at different points along the traverse path. 6. The alignment system of claim 1 further comprising an upper and a lower robot guide adapted to provide a path for the robotic system to traverse across the first and second storage units and wherein alignment is accomplished when the upper and lower robot guides are substantially parallel and planar. 7. The alignment system of claim 6 wherein the alignment is further accomplished when the upper and lower robot guides are substantially the same length. 8. The alignment system of claim 7 wherein the alignment is further accomplished when the upper and lower robot guides each having a leading edge are aligned in substantially the same vertical position. 9. The alignment system of claim 1 wherein the alignment means is accomplished with at least one adjustable foot device. 10. The alignment system of claim 1 wherein the alignment indication device is from the group consisting of: a laser pointer and target system, a string and ruler system, and a camera and target system. 11. The alignment system of claim 1 further comprises a leveling means to substantially level the first and the second storage unit. 12. The alignment system of claim 1 further comprising a third storage unit comprising media support locations; and wherein the alignment means is capable of positioning the first, the second and the third storage unit substantially in alignment. 13. A method for aligning a storage apparatus comprising: providing an alignment guide for a first and second storage unit; positioning the first and second storage unit substantially into alignment with guidance from the alignment guide; accessing all storage media elements and storage drive devices comprised by the first and second storage units intended to be accessed by a robotic system when the first and second storage units are substantially in alignment. 14. The method of claim 13 wherein the positioning step is accomplished by at least one adjustable foot device. 15. The method of claim 13 further comprising traversing a robotic system across the first and the second storage unit wherein the robotic system is used with the alignment guide as an alignment feedback mechanism for alignment. 16. The method of claim 13 further comprising leveling the first and the second storage unit with a leveling means. 17. A means for aligning a storage apparatus comprising: a means for guiding a first and second storage unit into position for a robotic system to access all storage media elements and storage drive devices intended to be accessed by the robotic system all of which are comprised by the first and second storage units; a means for moving the first and second storage unit into the position. 18. The means of claim 17 further comprising a means for traversing the robotic system across the first and the second storage unit wherein the means for guiding comprises using the robotic system as an alignment confirmation device. 19. The means of claim 17 further comprising a means for leveling the first and second storage unit. 20. The means of claim 17 further comprising a means for the robotic system to traverse the first and second storage units to access all storage media elements and storage drive devices intended to be accessed by the robotic system when the first and second storage units are in alignment. 21. An alignment system for aligning a first data storage unit and a second data storage unit, each of the storage units including at least one of a storage media element and a storage device, the system comprising: a robotic system for moving a storage media element from the first data storage unit to the second data storage unit; an alignment indication device for aligning the first data storage unit with the second data storage unit so that the robotic system is able to access each storage media element and each storage device included in the first data storage unit and in the second data storage unit. 