Torque control capability is provided to a position controlled robot by calculating joint position inputs from transformation of the desired joint torques. This is based on calculating the transfer function 1/E(s), which relates the desired joint torque to joint position. Here E(s) is a servo transfer function D(s) or an effective servo transfer function D*(s). The use of an effective servo transfer function D*s) is helpful in cases where joint nonlinearities are significant. The effective servo transfer function D*(s) is defined with respect to an ideal joint transfer function G*(s)=1/(I.sub.effs.sup.2+b.sub.effs), where I.sub.eff is an effective moment of inertia and b.sub.eff is an effective damping coefficient.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A robotic control method for a position controlled robot, the method comprising: a) determining a closed loop position transfer function T(s) of a selected joint of the robot relating a commanded input joint position Q.sub.in(s) to an actual joint position Q.sub.out(s) via Q.sub.out(s)=T(s)Q.sub.in(s); b) selecting a dynamic open loop joint torque to position transfer function H(s) relating to the selected joint; c) determining a corresponding effective servo transfer function E(s) of the selected joint according to E(s)=T(s)/(H(s)-T(s)H(s)); d) providing a desired dynamic torque .tau..sub.des(s) of the selected joint; and e) determining Q.sub.in(s) of the selected joint corresponding to .tau..sub.des(s) via Q.sub.in(s)=.tau..sub.des(s)/(E(s)(1-T(s)). 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said transfer function H(s) is a physical transfer function of said selected joint. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said transfer function H(s) is an idealized transfer function of said selected joint. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein H(s) is given by H(s)=1/(I.sub.effs.sup.2+b.sub.effs), where I.sub.eff is an effective moment of inertia of said selected joint, and b.sub.eff is an effective damping coefficient of said selected joint. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein said transfer function H(s) differs substantially from a physical transfer function G(s) of said selected joint. 6. A robotic control method for a position controlled robot, the method comprising: selecting two or more joints of the robot; and providing desired torque inputs to each of the selected joints as corresponding position inputs according to the method of claim 1. 7. A robotic control system comprising: a) a position controlled robot having a closed loop position transfer function T(s) of a selected joint of the robot relating a commanded input joint position Q.sub.in(s) to an actual joint position Q.sub.out(s) via Q.sub.out(s)=T(s)Q.sub.in(s); b) a processor including a torque to position converter, wherein said torque to position converter is capable of providing Q.sub.in(s) corresponding to a desired dynamic torque .tau..sub.des(s) of the selected joint according to a method comprising: selecting a dynamic open loop joint torque to position transfer function H(s) relating to the selected joint; determining a corresponding effective servo transfer function E(s) of the selected joint according to E(s)=T(s)/(H(s)-T(s)H(s)); and determining Q.sub.in(s) of the selected joint corresponding to .tau..sub.des(s) via Q.sub.in(s)=.tau..sub.des(s)/(E(s)(1-T(s)). 8. The system of claim 7, wherein said transfer function H(s) is a physical transfer function of said selected joint. 9. The system of claim 7, wherein said transfer function H(s) is an idealized transfer function of said selected joint. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein H(s) is given by H(s)=1/(I.sub.effs.sup.2+b.sub.effs), where I.sub.eff is an effective moment of inertia of said selected joint, and b.sub.eff is an effective damping coefficient of said selected joint. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein said transfer function H(s) differs substantially from a physical transfer function G(s) of said selected joint. 