Apparatus and method for performing sequential bioassays with microfluidic transfers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for detecting a target polynucleotide in a sample comprising: an oligonucleotide ligation assay (OLA) platform comprising a plurality of OLA wells; and a PCR platform comprising a plurality of PCR wells, wherein the OLA wells are in fluid communications with the PCR wells, wherein the OLA platform is in a first card and the PCR platform is in a second card, and wherein the first card and the second card are separate cards mated together, and wherein the system is a closed system capable of transferring a plurality of OLA products from the OLA wells to the PCR wells. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the OLA wells comprise OLA probes. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the PCR wells comprise PCR reagents. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein each OLA well is in fluid communication with a corresponding PCR well. 5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a purification platform. 6. The system of claim 5, wherein the purification platform comprises coated beads. 7. The system of claim 6, wherein the coated beads are magnetic. 8. The system of claim 6, wherein the coated beads comprise streptavidin. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the OLA wells provide 1 microliter volumes, and wherein the PCR wells provide 1 microliter volumes. 10. The system of claim 9, further providing a transferring system on the OLA platform, wherein the transferring system is sized for at least 70 nanoliters of OLA product from each OLA well to reach a corresponding PCR well. 11. A method for detecting a target polynucleotide in a sample comprising: providing an oligonucleotide ligation assay (OLA) platform comprising a plurality of OLA wells; providing a PCR platform comprising a plurality of PCR wells, wherein the OLA wells are capable of fluid communications with the PCR wells; providing the sample to the OLA platform; thermal cycling the sample in the OLA wells; mating the OLA platform to the PCR platform to provide fluid communication between each of the OLA wells and each of the PCR wells; transferring a plurality of OLA products to the PCR platform; thermal cycling the OLA products in the PCR wells; and detecting the target polynucleotide in the sample. 12. The method of claim 11, further comprising purifying a plurality of PCR products after thermal cycling the OLA products in the PCR wells. 13. The method of claim 11, wherein providing the OLA platform comprises positioning OLA probes in the OLA wells. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein providing the PCR platform comprises positioning PCP reagents in the PCP wells. 15. A system for detecting a target polynucleotide in a sample comprising: a first platform comprising a first plurality of wells configured to a first bioassay; and a second platform comprising a second plurality of wells configured to a second bioassay, wherein the first plurality of wells are in fluid communications with the second plurality of wells, wherein the first platform is in a first card and the second platform is in a second card, and wherein the first card and the second card are separate cards mated together, wherein the system is a closed system capable of transferring a plurality of products from the first plurality of wells to the second plurality of wells, wherein the system does not comprise a purification material between the first plurality of wells and the second plurality of wells, and wherein the fluid communication comprises a microfluidic transfer from the first platform to the second platform. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a plurality of purification chambers between the second plurality of wells and an outlet, wherein the purification chambers are in fluid communication with the second plurality of wells. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the plurality of purification chambers comprised coated beads. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the coated beads are magnetic. 19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first bioassay is oligonucleotide ligation assay (OLA) and the second bioassay is PCR. 20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first bioassay is gDNA preparation and the second bioassay is OLA. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, further comprising a third platform comprising a third plurality of wells configured to a third bioassay, wherein the second plurality of wells are in fluid communications with the third plurality of wells such that each well in the third plurality corresponds to a well in the second plurality, wherein the third bioassay is PCR. 