A packing system is provided comprising a first object and a sensing device. The first object comprises an interface surface having a plurality of tags printed thereon, with each tag containing coded data identifying the object. The sensing device is configured to read the tags and send data to a packing device.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A packing system comprising: a first object to be packed, said object comprising an interface surface having a plurality of tags printed thereon, each tag containing coded data identifying the object; and a sensing device comprising: (a) an optical sensor for sensing at least one tag; (b) a processor for generating, using the sensed tag, indicating data identifying the object and at least one of: (i) a position of the sensed tag; (ii) a position of the sensing device relative to the interface surface; (iii) an orientation of the sensed tag; and, (iv) an orientation of the sensing device relative to the interface surface; and, (c) means for transferring the indicating data to at least one of: (i) a packing device which is responsive to the indicating data to pack the object; (ii) a computer system which is responsive to the indicating data to cause a packing device to pack the object; and, (iii) a packing device which is responsive to the indicating data to determine the orientation of the object. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensing device includes a laser for emitting at least one scanning beam, the scanning beam being directed in first and second orthogonal directions to thereby generate a raster scan pattern over a scanning patch, the scanning patch being provided in the sensing region such that the scanning patch exposes at least one tag. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the object has a plurality of faces, each face having at least one tag provided at a respective position thereon. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the at least one tag identifies the face, and wherein the processor is configured for generating, using the sensed tag, indicating data identifying the face. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein each tag identifies its own position on the interface surface. 6. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a second object in which the first object is to be packed, the second object comprising a second interface surface having a plurality of second tags printed thereon, each second tag containing second coded data identifying the second object and the position of that second tag on the second interface surface, wherein the sensing device is configured for: (a) sensing at least one second tag; (b) generating, using the sensed second tag, second indicating data identifying the second object; and, (c) transferring the second indicating data to the packing device, the packing device being responsive to the second indicating data to pack the first object in the second object. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the coded data is substantially invisible to the unaided eye. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the coded data is printed using infrared ink. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the coded data is indicative of an EPC associated with the object. 10. The system of claim 1, wherein the coded data uniquely distinguishes the object from other objects. 11. The system of claim 1, wherein the coded data is redundantly encoded. 12. The system of claim 11, wherein the coded data is redundantly encoded using Reed-Solomon encoding. 13. The system of claim 1, wherein the coded data is provided on the interface surface coincident with visible markings representing at least one of: (a) object information; (b) orientation information; (c) the identity of the object; and, (d) object status information. 14. The system of claim 1, wherein the interface surface is at least a portion of at least one of: (a) object packaging; (b) object labelling; and, (c) a surface of the object. 