Aspects of the present invention relate to an automated handling device for handling a forged piece during a forging press. A method in accordance with an implementation of the present invention involves positioning the workpiece between two tools in a predetermined shaping position in at least one working region of a shaping machine (positioning step), particularly one that operates percussively, moving the tools of the shaping machine relative to one another and shaping the workpiece between the tools during at least one shaping step, holding the workpiece in its shaping position by at least two handling devices during each shaping step, and thus also when the tool(s) strike the workpiece, and automatically controlling or regulating by mutual coordination the motions and positions of at least two handling devices by use of at least one control device.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: positioning a work-piece between two associated tools in a predetermined shaping position in at least one working region of at least one shaping machine; moving the two associated tools of the shaping machine relative to one another during at least one shaping step, such that the workpiece is shaped between the two associated tools; holding the workpiece during each shaping step in its shaping position with at least two handling devices; automatically controlling the motions and positions of the handling devices by mutual coordination with at least one control device; wherein, for moving and/or handling the workpiece by the at least two handling devices, the control device actuates both at least two handling devices independently of one another. 2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the workpiece is shaped in at least two shaping steps. 3. A method according to claim 2, wherein the workpiece is shaped in at least two shaping steps in at least one of: the same working region, or the same shaping position. 4. A method according to claim 3, further comprising moving the workpiece: from one working region to the next working region between two consecutive shaping steps with at least one handling device; or from one shaping position to the next shaping position, such that the workpiece is positioned in the next shaping position. 5. A method according to claim 3, further comprising rotating the workpiece between one shaping position and the next shaping position about a rotational angle of approximately 90.degree.. 6. A method according to claim 1, further comprising, before the shaping step, conveying with at least one handling device from a pickup device each workpiece to the working region of the shaping machine. 7. A method according to claim 1, further comprising, after the shaping step, conveying each workpiece with at least one handling device from the working region of the shaping machine to a depositing device. 8. A method according to claim 1, wherein the workpiece is positioned by at least two handling devices in at least one of the shaping positions. 9. A method according to claim 8, further comprising, using the same two handling devices to position the workpiece in the shaping position, and to hold the workpiece during at least one shaping step. 10. A method according to claim 8, wherein the same two handling devices are used both to convey the workpiece from the pickup device to the working region, and to position the workpiece in the shaping position. 11. A method according to claim 8, wherein the same two handling devices are used both to position the workpiece in the shaping position, and to convey the workpiece from the working region of the shaping machine to a depositing device. 12. A method according to claim 8, further comprising using the same two handling devices to position the workpiece in each of the shaping positions, to hold the workpiece in each of the shaping positions, and to move the workpiece between the shaping positions. 13. A method according to claim 1, wherein the workpiece is one of: positioned on one of the two associated tools of the shaping machine in its shaping position; or inserted on the tool in its shaping position. 14. A method according to claim 1, further comprising ventilating the workpiece from the two associated tools with the at least two handling devices upon at least one of: after the workpiece is struck; or during a relative motion of the two associated tools away from one another. 15. A method according to claim 1, wherein the handling devices continuously grasp the workpiece during handling and movement thereof. 16. A method according to claim 1, wherein the workpiece, at least during each shaping step, is held on opposite sides or ends by a respective handling device. 17. A method according to claim 1, wherein during movement and/or handling of the workpiece by the at least two handling devices, contact points of the at least two handling devices are moved along trajectories S(t.sub.0) essentially at a constant distance with respect to one another. 18. A method according to claim 1, wherein during movement of the workpiece by at least two handling devices, contacts points of the handling devices are synchronously moved with respect to one another. 19. A method according to claim 1, further comprising moving contact points of the workpiece essentially at the same speed during movement of the workpiece by the at least two handling devices. 20. A method according to claim 1, wherein during handling of the workpiece by the at least two handling devices, the at least two handling devices pick up or release the workpiece essentially in a synchronous manner. 21. A method according to claim 1, wherein the respective at least two handling devices have at least one drive mechanism, each having at least one electric drive motor. 22. A method according to claim 1, wherein for moving and/or handling the workpiece by the at least two handling devices, the control device actuates both at least two handling devices, in particular the drive mechanisms thereof, according to a master-slave principle in which one of the at least two handling devices acts as the slave, thereby following the motions of the other of the at least two handling devices, which acts as the master. 23. A method according to claim 1, wherein at least a contact point of each of the at least two handling devices follows a trajectory determined in advance with a predetermined speed characteristic during movement and/or handling of the workpiece. 24. A method according to claim 1, wherein the at least two handling devices follows stored successive trajectory points at regular time intervals during movement and/or handling of the workpiece. 25. A method according to claim 24, further comprising learning the associated trajectory of the at least two handling device in advance. 26. A method according to claim 25, wherein the trajectory of one of the at least two handling devices or the corresponding contact points on the workpiece has been learned, and the trajectory of at least one additional at least two handling device or its contact point on the workpiece is calculated from the learned trajectory of the first at least two handling devices. 27. A method according to claim 25, wherein for learning the trajectory of the at least two handling devices or the corresponding contact point on the workpiece, the associated trajectory has been traversed at a predetermined speed characteristic, and the trajectory points have been successively determined and stored at regular time intervals. 28. A method according to claim 25, further comprising learning the trajectory by: traversing the associated trajectory; storing the trajectory points at regular time intervals; and calculating new trajectory points from a predetermined subsequent speed characteristic. 29. A method according to claim 28, wherein during the movement and/or handling of the workpiece, the at least two handling devices follow the trajectory points stored during learning. 30. A method according to claim 24, wherein the regular time intervals are between 1 ms and 50 ms. 31. A method according to claim 1, wherein the handling actions of the at least two handling devices are directly calculated in a three-dimensional coordinate system. 32. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: checking whether the at least two handling device(s) maintain their motion and/or position predetermined by the control device; and stopping the motion of the at least two handling devices when there is an impermissible deviation. 33. A method according to claim 1, wherein a percussive shaping machine, including one of a forging hammer, a screw press, or a crank press, is provided as the shaping machine. 34. A method according to claim 1, wherein the at least two handling devices are moved into a parked position to make the working region of the shaping machine accessible. 35. A method according to claim 1, wherein the at least two handling devices are positioned on opposite sides of the working region of the shaping machine during one shaping step. 36. A method according to claim 1, wherein the at least two handling devices are industrial robots. 37. A method according to claim 1, wherein a deviation of the position of the workpiece relative to the associated tools as a consequence of the corresponding deviation of the shape of the workpiece is compensated in a region in which a first one of the handling devices grasps the workpiece, the compensation occurring by the two handling devices: constraining the workpiece into the target position by fixing or gripping the workpiece at two points; and automatically aligning and inserting the workpiece into the associated tools in the correct shaping position. 38. A method according to claim 1, further comprising, after one of the associated tools have struck the workpiece, or after the associated tools have moved away from one another: lifting the workpiece from the associated tools; placing the workpiece again on the associated tools; and shaping the workpiece again with the associated tools. 39. A method according to claim 1, further comprising compensating for a change in the volume or shape of the workpiece after the shaping process by: the at least two handling devices changing their corresponding contact points on the workpiece; wherein the at least two handling devices change their contact points by one or both of: reducing gripping pressure on the workpiece without releasing the workpiece; or contacting the workpiece at a more distal portion of the workpiece. 40. A method according to claim 1, wherein one or more trajectories of the motion of the at least two handling devices: deviate from each other in a mutually-adapted manner; and present an offset or a compensating provision when the workpiece displays different ridges, or displays a different shape at one or more regions of contact. 41. A device for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: at least one shaping machine having at least two tools that are moveable with respect to one another for shaping a workpiece in a predetermined shaping position during at least one shaping step; at least two handling devices for holding the workpiece in the shaping position during the shaping step; and at least one control device for controlling or regulating the motions and positions of the handling devices; wherein: the at least two handling devices are situated on opposite sides of the working region of the shaping machine at least when the workpiece is held during the shaping step; and each of the two handling devices comprises: at least one gripping mechanism having at least two gripping elements that are movable relative to one another for gripping the workpiece; and at least one support apparatus to which the gripping mechanism is fastened. 42. A device according to claim 41, wherein: a) in a flexible state, the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected to one another in a flexible manner; and b) in a rigid state, the support apparatus and the conveying device are at least one of: i) connected to one another in a rigid manner; or ii) positioned relative to one another in a rigid manner in at least one three-dimensional direction, or in each rotational position of the gripping mechanism. 43. A device according to claim 41, wherein each handling device has at least one rotary drive for at least one of: rotating the gripping mechanism about a rotational axis that extends through the gripping mechanism; and rotating at least one of the gripping elements about a rotational axis that extends through the gripping element. 44. A device according to one of claim 41, wherein the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected by at least one flexible element, wherein the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected only via the flexible element in the flexible state, and, in the rigid state, are supported on or against one another by at least one support device which bridges the flexible element. 45. A device according to one of claim 41, wherein the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected to one another by at least one connecting element that is flexible in the flexible state and rigid in the rigid state. 46. A device according to claim 44, wherein at least one rotary drive for rotating the gripping mechanism is situated on the side of: i) the connecting element; or ii) the flexible element facing away from the gripping mechanism and the support apparatus. 47. A method for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: positioning a workpiece between two associated tools in a predetermined shaping position in at least one working region of at least one shaping machine; moving the two associated tools of the shaping machine relative to one another during at least one shaping step, such that the workpiece is shaped between the two associated tools; holding the workpiece during each shaping step in its shaping position with at least two handling devices; automatically controlling the motions and positions of the at least two handling devices by mutual coordination with at least one control device, wherein the at least two handling devices follows stored successive trajectory points at regular time intervals during movement and/or handling of the workpiece; and learning the associated trajectory of the at least two handling device in advance. 48. A method according to claim 47, wherein the at least two handling devices are driven by at least one common drive mechanism having at least one electric drive motor, and are actuated by the control device by actuating the common drive mechanism. 49. A method for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: positioning a workpiece between two associated tools in a predetermined shaping position in at least one working region of at least one shaping machine; moving the two associated tools of the shaping machine relative to one another during at least one shaping step, such that the workpiece is shaped between the two associated tools; holding the workpiece during each shaping step in its shaping position with at least two handling devices; automatically controlling the motions and positions of the at least two handling devices by mutual coordination with at least one control device, wherein the at least two handling devices follow stored successive trajectory points at regular time intervals during movement and/or handling of the workpiece; and learning the associated trajectory of the at least two handling device in advance; wherein: the trajectory of one of a the at least two handling devices or their the corresponding contact points on the workpiece has been learned; and the trajectory of at least one additional at least two handling device or its contact point on the workpiece has been calculated from the learned trajectory of the first at least two handling devices. 50. A method for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: positioning a workpiece between two associated tools in a predetermined shaping position in at least one working region of at least one shaping machine; moving the two associated tools of the shaping machine relative to one another during at least one shaping step, such that the workpiece is shaped between the two associated tools; holding the workpiece during each shaping step in its shaping position with at least two handling devices; automatically controlling the motions and positions of the at least two handling devices by mutual coordination with at least one control device, wherein the at least two handling devices follow stored successive trajectory points at regular time intervals during movement and/or handling of the workpiece; and learning the associated trajectory of the at least two handling device in advance; wherein, for learning the trajectory of the at least two handling devices or the corresponding contact point on the workpiece: the associated trajectory has been traversed at a predetermined speed characteristic; and the trajectory points have been successively determined and stored at regular time intervals. 51. A method for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: positioning a workpiece between two associated tools in a predetermined shaping position in at least one working region of at least one shaping machine; moving the two associated tools of the shaping machine relative to one another during at least one shaping step, such that the workpiece is shaped between the two associated tools; holding the workpiece during each shaping step in its shaping position with at least two handling devices; automatically controlling the motions and positions of the at least two handling devices by mutual coordination with at least one control device, wherein the at least two handling devices follow stored successive trajectory points at regular time intervals during movement and/or handling of the workpiece; and learning the associated trajectory of the at least two handling devices in advance by: traversing the associated trajectory; storing the trajectory points at regular time intervals; and calculating new trajectory points from a predetermined subsequent speed characteristic. 52. A method for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: positioning a workpiece between two associated tools in a predetermined shaping position in at least one working region of at least one shaping machine; moving the two associated tools of the shaping machine relative to one another during at least one shaping step, such that the workpiece is shaped between the two associated tools; holding the workpiece during each shaping step in its shaping position with at least two handling devices; automatically controlling the motions and positions of the at least two handling devices by mutual coordination with at least one control device, wherein the at least two handling devices follow stored successive trajectory points at regular time intervals during movement and/or handling of the workpiece; and learning the associated trajectory of the at least two handling devices in advance by: traversing the associated trajectory; storing the trajectory points at regular time intervals; and calculating new trajectory points from a predetermined subsequent speed characteristic; wherein, during the movement and/or handling of the workpiece, the at least two handling devices follow the trajectory points stored during learning. 53. A method for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: positioning a workpiece between two associated tools in a predetermined shaping position in at least one working region of at least one shaping machine; moving the two associated tools of the shaping machine relative to one another during at least one shaping step, such that the workpiece is shaped between the two associated tools; holding the workpiece during each shaping step in its shaping position with at least two handling devices; automatically controlling the motions and positions of the at least two handling devices by mutual coordination with at least one control device; wherein: the at least two handling devices follow stored successive trajectory points at regular time intervals during movement and/or handling of the workpiece; and the regular time intervals are between 1 ms and 50 ms. 54. A device for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: at least one shaping machine having at least two tools that are moveable with respect to one another for shaping a workpiece in a predetermined shaping position during at least one shaping step; at least two handling devices for holding the workpiece in the shaping position during the shaping step; and at least one control device for controlling or regulating the motions and positions of the handling devices; wherein: the at least two handling devices are situated on opposite sides of the working region of the shaping machine at least when the workpiece is held during the shaping step; and each of the two handling devices comprises: at least one gripping mechanism having at least two gripping elements that are movable relative to one another for gripping the workpiece; and at least one support apparatus to which the gripping mechanism is fastened; wherein: in a flexible state, the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected to one another in a flexible manner; and in a rigid state, the support apparatus and the conveying device are at least one of: connected to one another in a rigid manner; or positioned relative to one another in a rigid manner in at least one three-dimensional direction, or in each rotational position of the gripping mechanism. 55. A device for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: at least one shaping machine having at least two tools that are moveable with respect to one another for shaping a workpiece in a predetermined shaping position during at least one shaping step; at least two handling devices for holding the workpiece in the shaping position during the shaping step; and at least one control device for controlling or regulating the motions and positions of the handling devices; wherein: the at least two handling devices are situated on opposite sides of the working region of the shaping machine at least when the workpiece is held during the shaping step; and each of the two handling devices comprises: at least one gripping mechanism having at least two gripping elements that are movable relative to one another for gripping the workpiece; and at least one support apparatus to which the gripping mechanism is fastened; wherein each handling device has at least one rotary drive for at least one of: rotating the gripping mechanism about a rotational axis that extends through the gripping mechanism; and rotating at least one of the gripping elements about a rotational axis that extends through the gripping element. 56. A device for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: at least one shaping machine having at least two tools that are moveable with respect to one another for shaping a workpiece in a predetermined shaping position during at least one shaping step; at least two handling devices for holding the workpiece in the shaping position during the shaping step; and at least one control device for controlling or regulating the motions and positions of the handling devices; wherein: the at least two handling devices are situated on opposite sides of the working region of the shaping machine at least when the workpiece is held during the shaping step; and each of the two handling devices comprises: at least one gripping mechanism having at least two gripping elements that are movable relative to one another for gripping the workpiece; and at least one support apparatus to which the gripping mechanism is fastened; wherein: the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected by at least one flexible element; the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected only via the flexible element in the flexible state, and, in the rigid state, are supported on or against one another by at least one support device which bridges the flexible element. 57. A device for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: at least one shaping machine having at least two tools that are moveable with respect to one another for shaping a workpiece in a predetermined shaping position during at least one shaping step; at least two handling devices for holding the workpiece in the shaping position during the shaping step; and at least one control device for controlling or regulating the motions and positions of the handling devices; wherein: the at least two handling devices are situated on opposite sides of the working region of the shaping machine at least when the workpiece is held during the shaping step; and each of the two handling devices comprises: at least one gripping mechanism having at least two gripping elements that are movable relative to one another for gripping the workpiece; and at least one support apparatus to which the gripping mechanism is fastened; wherein the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected to one another by at least one connecting element that is flexible in the flexible state and rigid in the rigid state. 58. A device for shaping at least one workpiece, comprising: at least one shaping machine having at least two tools that are moveable with respect to one another for shaping a workpiece in a predetermined shaping position during at least one shaping step; at least two handling devices for holding the workpiece in the shaping position during the shaping step; and at least one control device for controlling or regulating the motions and positions of the handling devices; wherein: the at least two handling devices are situated on opposite sides of the working region of the shaping machine at least when the workpiece is held during the shaping step; and each of the two handling devices comprises: at least one gripping mechanism having at least two gripping elements that are movable relative to one another for gripping the workpiece; and at least one support apparatus to which the gripping mechanism is fastened; wherein: the support apparatus and the conveying device are connected to one another by at least one connecting element that is flexible in the flexible state and rigid in the rigid state; and at least one rotary drive for rotating the gripping mechanism is situated on the side of: the connecting element; or the flexible element facing away from the gripping mechanism and the support apparatus. 