Affordable commercial service platforms in space focusing on customer affordability, quality microgravity services, innovation and combining five emerging space technologies. The invention provides an integrated approach to microgravity services in orbit. First, the reusable launch vehicle (RLV) offers affordable transportation services, platform reboost, and eliminates platform subsystems of propulsion, RCS, liquid storage/resupply, and the like. Second, deployable structures are not heavy for the launch, but expand in orbit. Third, orbital phone networks offer customers control of unmanned experiments. Fourth, an enhanced robotic system transfers payloads. Fifth, manufactured thin film solar cells in orbit offer advantages including weight/cost reductions. The orbital service platform has a low initial cost, expands as the market demands, is repairable, offers quality unmanned microgravity, leads to production facilities using similar hardware and offers numerous affordable commercial services.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A space platform comprising: a first module transportable to outer space in a compressed form and expandable in outer space, said first module comprising end caps disposed at terminal portions thereof, at least one of said end caps comprising one or more tracks circumferentially disposed therein or thereon, and said module expanding along an axis defined by said end caps during inflation; one or more carriers disposed on said one or more tracks; and one or more inflatable robotic arm devices disposed within each of said end caps and attached to one of said carriers. 2. The space platform of claim 1 further comprising: a second module transportable to outer space in a compressed form and expandable in outer space said second module comprising end caps disposed at terminal portions thereof, at least one of said end caps comprising one or more tracks circumferentially disposed therein or thereon, and said second module expanding along an axis defined by said end caps during expansion; and one or more carriers disposed on said one or more tracks; and one or more inflatable robotic arm devices disposed within each of said end caps and attached to one of said carriers. 3. The space platform of claim 2 wherein said first and said second modules are connectable at said end caps. 4. The space platform of claim 3 wherein one of said end caps on said first module rotates with an end cap on said second module from force provided by one or more of said robotic arm devices. 5. The space platform of claim 4 wherein each of said one or more carriers is movable about its corresponding track. 6. The space platform of claim 1 further comprising extendable and retractable connection hardware. 7. The space platform of claim 6 wherein said connection hardware comprises adjustable and rotatable connection hardware. 8. The space platform of claim 3 wherein said end caps are capable of transferring connectable box items between said end caps. 9. The space platform of claim 1 wherein said robotic arm devices are capable of switching out, stowing and loading additional modules. 10. The space platform of claim 1 wherein each of said end caps comprises a disc-shape. 11. The space platform of claim 1 further comprising communications electronics. 12. The space platform of claim 1 further comprising transportation electronics. 13. The space platform of claim 1 wherein said robotic arm devices comprise at least one elbow. 14. The space platform of claim 1 wherein said robotic arm devices comprise an end effector. 15. The space platform of claim 1 wherein said first module expands to a length sufficient to establish gravity gradient stability for said platform. 16. The space platform of claim 1 further comprising a support structure disposed between said end caps. 17. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein said support structure comprises a truss system. 18. An orbital unmanned platform combined with a reusable launch vehicle comprising: an unmanned payload transported to space, said payload comprising an expandable structure comprising end caps disposed at terminal portions thereof, said structure expanding along an axis defined by said end caps during expansion, at least one of said end caps comprising, one or more tracks circumferentially disposed within or around said end cap, one or more carriers disposed on said one or more tracks; and one or more inflatable arm sections disposed within said end caps and attached to one of said carriers; and a different payload transported upon return from space; whereby said combination creates a complete transportation cycle and a functioning node in space. 19. The orbital unmanned platform combined with a reusable launch vehicle of claim 18 further comprising at least part of the payload remaining in space and at least part of the payload returning from space. 20. The orbital unmanned platform combined with a reusable launch vehicle of claim 19 wherein said payloads are accumulated, assembled, tested and transferred at a node platform. 21. The space platform of claim 1 wherein said first module comprises an inflatable module. 22. The space platform of claim 2 wherein said second module comprises an inflatable module. 23. The orbital unmanned platform of claim 18 wherein said expandable structure comprises an inflatable structure. 