A self threading printer is disclosed for producing rolls of wallpaper. It features a media loading area adapted to support a media cartridge in a position so that a media supply slot of the cartridge is closely adjacent to a pilot guide. The device's cabinet contains a media path which extends from the pilot guide to a printed media dispensing slot. A printhead is located across the media path and an internal processor accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll. A motor within the cabinet advances a media web out of the media cartridge and one or more other motors urge the media along the path and out of the dispensing slot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A self threading printer for producing rolls of wallpaper, comprising: a media loading area adapted to support a media cartridge in a position so that a media supply slot of the cartridge is closely adjacent to a media guide; a cabinet housing a media path which extends from the media guide to a printed media dispensing slot; a printhead located across the media path, the printhead being mounted on a rail on which it slides into and out of a printing position across the media path; a processor which accepts operator inputs which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; a motor within the cabinet for advancing a media web out of the media cartridge; one or more other motors adapted to urge the media along the path and out of the slot; and a well, external to the cabinet and adjacent to a printed media dispensing slot, the well having at each end, spindles for aligning, retaining and removing a core, at least one spindle being motorized to rotate the core. 2. The printer of claim 1, further comprising: a slitting mechanism in the cabinet adapted to longitudinally slit the media web, to different widths, as required and in accordance with instructions provided by a user. 3. The printer of claim 2, further comprising: a door which covers an opening into a lower compartment of the dryer; the door being moveable from a closed position which covers the opening, to an open position in which the media passes through the opening into the lower compartment and out of the compartment, also through the opening. 4. The printer of claim 3, wherein: the media in the lower compartment forms a catenary path in the compartment. 5. The printer of claim 1, further comprising: a cutting mechanism located between the printhead and the slot and adapted to divide with a transverse cut, the media web in accordance with instructions provided by the processor. 6. The printer of claim 1, further comprising: an internal dryer, the dryer located between the printhead and the slot and adapted to blow hot air onto a printed web. 7. The printer of claim 1, wherein: the motor is responsive to the processor. 8. The printer of claim 1, further comprising: on a front exterior surface of the cabinet, a video display for displaying information about wallpaper that the printer may print. 9. The printer of claim 8, wherein: the video display is a touchscreen which can receive operator selections for use by the processor. 10. The printer of claim 1, wherein: the media cartridge resides in the loading area with a handle accessible through a service door which provides access to the area. 11. The printer of claim 10, wherein: the media cartridge loading area further comprises one or more empty locations where a media cartridge can be stored. 12. The printer of claim 1, wherein: the printhead is a multi-color printhead which is supplied by separate ink reservoirs, the reservoirs connected to the printhead by a number of ink supply tubes, there being a tube disconnect coupling between the reservoirs and the printhead. 13. The printer of claim 1, further comprising: an air supply and a tube for bringing a supply of air to the printhead which supply prevents media from sticking to the printhead. 14. The printer of claim 1, further comprising: a capper motor, the capper motor driving a capping device; the capping device sealing the printhead with a cap when not in use, in order to prevent contamination from entering the printheads. 15. The printer of claim 14, wherein: the capper device further comprises a blotter, which moves into and out of position and which is used for absorbing ink fired from the printheads. 16. The printer of claim 1, further comprising: one or more rail microadjusters for accurately adjusting a gap between the printhead and the media onto which it is printing. 17. The printer of claim 1, wherein: the media path comprises a generally straight path. 18. The printer of claim 1, further comprising: a pre-heater platen located under the path and before the printhead. 19. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the media web is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.02 square meters per second (775 square feet per hour). 20. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the media web is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.1 square meters per second (3875 square feet per hour). 21. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the media web is printed by the printhead at a rate exceeding 0.2 square meters per second (7750 square feet per hour). 22. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 7680 nozzles. 23. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 20,000 nozzles. 24. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 100,000 nozzles. 25. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead has more than 250,000 nozzles. 26. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 5 picoliters. 27. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 3 picoliters. 28. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein the printhead prints ink drops with a volume of less than 1.5 picoliters. 29. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 wherein it is self contained and comprises: said cabinet being a cabinet in which is located the media path which extends from said media cartridge loading area to a winding area; said printhead being a full width digital color printhead located in the media path; the winding area adapted to removably retain the core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer. 30. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 including a transverse cutter, the transverse cutter comprising: a chassis having end plates; the end plates being separated to allow the media web to pass between them; the end plates supporting between them a cutting blade; and the blade supported at each end to perform a cutting motion which begins on one side of the web and finishes on an opposite side of the web. 31. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 including a slitting mechanism, the slitting mechanism comprising: a chassis having end plates; the end plates being separated by a transverse portion of the chassis to allow the media web to pass between them; one or more rotating slitting shafts extending between the end plates, each shaft having one or more slitters arranged along its length, each slitter having a cutting edge; and the slitting mechanism selectively engageable to either enter or not enter a path followed by the web according to an input provided by an operator of the printer. 32. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 including a dryer, the dryer comprising: a compartment with a top opening for receiving the media web fed from the printer; a source of heated air located above the top opening for blowing heated air into the opening to dry printing on the media web. 33. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 further comprising: said cabinet in which is located the media path which extends from said media cartridge loading area to a winding area; said printhead located in the media path; said processor which accepts operator inputs from one or more input devices which are used to configure the printer for producing a particular roll; and the winding area adapted to removably retain the core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer wherein, the length and design of the roll are determined by the operator inputs. 34. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 adapted to produce rolls of wallpaper, the printer comprising: said cabinet in which is located the media path which extends from said media cartridge loading area to a winding area; one or more input devices for capturing operator instructions; and the winding area adapted to removably retain the core and wind onto it, wallpaper produced by the printer. 35. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a printhead assembly which prints onto a moving web that follows a path, the assembly comprising: said printhead being printhead located across the path; the printhead comprising a color printhead which is at least as wide as the web; the printhead being supplied with a number of different inks which are remote from the printhead and which supply the printhead through tubes. 36. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 further comprising: said cabinet in which is located the media path which extends from a blank media intake to a wallpaper exit slot; said printhead being a multi-color roll width removable printhead located in the cabinet and across the media path; the printhead being supplied by separate ink reservoirs, the reservoirs connected to the printhead by an ink supply harness, there being a disconnect coupling between the reservoirs and the printhead; one or more input devices for capturing operator instructions; 37. A self threading printer as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a removable printhead assembly which prints onto a moving web, the assembly comprising: said printhead being a full width stationary printhead located on a rail along which it slides for service and removal; a number of replaceable ink reservoirs which supply the printhead with different inks; the printhead comprising a color printhead which is at least as wide as the web; and the printhead being supplied with the different inks through tubes which can be disconnected so the printhead may be removed. 