A method of screening protein crystal growth conditions with picogram to microgram amounts of protein in picoliter or nanoliter volumes is provided. A preferred method comprises a microarray with a plurality of micro-chambers in the microarray. A protein solution is placed into the micro-chambers by an automated dispensing mechanism. The protein crystal growth conditions of each of the micro-chambers is adjusted so that the protein crystal growth conditions in at least two of the micro-chambers differs. Crystallization of the protein solution in the micro-chambers is effected. Protein crystal growth in the micro-chambers is then observed.
Claims Having described the invention the following is claimed: 1. A method for determining crystallization conditions for a protein, the method comprising: delivering material to micro-chambers connected by micro-channels within a micro-array to form a plurality of different crystallization samples, the plurality of different crystallization samples comprising a protein to be crystallized and crystallization conditions which vary among the plurality of different crystallization samples; allowing crystals of the protein to form in the plurality of crystallization samples within the microfluidic device; and, identifying which of the plurality of crystallization samples within the microfluidic device comprise a precipitate or a crystal of the protein. 2. A method for determining crystallization conditions for a protein, the method comprising: within a microfluidic device, delivering material to an enclosed microchamber via means for transmitting a fluid to the microchamber from an external source to form a plurality of different crystallization samples, the plurality of different crystallization samples comprising a protein to be crystallized and crystallization conditions which vary among the plurality of different crystallization samples; allowing crystals of the protein to form in the plurality of crystallization samples within the microfluidic device; and, identifying which of the plurality of crystallization samples within the microfluidic device comprise a precipitate or a crystal of the protein. 