A mobile robotic system includes a charging device and a mobile robot. The charging device is provided with a light emitter and a set of first charging contacts for supplying a charging signal. The mobile robot has a first side provided with a first light sensor, a second side provided with a second light sensor and a set of second charging contacts corresponding to the first charging contacts, a rechargeable battery unit, and a control unit. When charging of the battery unit is intended, the control unit enables movement of the mobile robot until the first light sensor detects light emitted by the light emitter, subsequently enables rotation of the mobile robot until the second light sensor detects the light from the light emitter, and then enables movement of the mobile robot toward the charging device until the first and second charging contacts come into contact.
Claims I claim: 1. A battery charging method for a mobile robotic system that includes a mobile robot and a charging device, the charging device having one side provided with a light emitter and a set of first charging contacts for supplying a charging signal, the mobile robot having a first side provided with a first light sensor facing in a first direction, a second side provided with a second light sensor facing in a second direction generally transverse to said first direction, a set of second charging contacts disposed on said second side and corresponding to the first charging contacts, and a rechargeable battery unit, said battery charging method comprising the steps of: a) when charging of the rechargeable battery unit is intended, moving the mobile robot until the first light sensor detects light emitted by the light emitter, stopping the mobile robot, and subsequently rotating the mobile robot until the second light sensor detects the light emitted by the light emitter; and b) while the second light sensor detects the light emitted by the light emitter, driving the mobile robot to move toward the charging device until the second charging contacts come into contact with the first charging contacts, thereby permitting charging of the rechargeable battery unit via the charging signal. 2. The battery charging method as claimed in claim 1, wherein step a) includes activating the first and second light sensors upon detection that a residual power level of the rechargeable battery unit is below a threshold value. 3. The battery charging method as claimed in claim 1, wherein step b) includes enabling the mobile robot to charge the rechargeable battery unit via the charging signal only upon verifying that the charging signal complies with a power specification of the rechargeable battery unit. 4. A mobile robotic system comprising: a charging device having one side provided with an infrared light emitter and a set of first charging contacts for supplying a charging signal; and a mobile robot having a first side provided with a first light sensor facing in a first direction, a second side provided with a second light sensor facing in a second direction generally transverse to said first direction, and a set of second charging contacts disposed on said second side and corresponding to said first charging contacts, a rechargeable battery unit, and a control unit coupled to said first and second light sensors, said second charging contacts and said rechargeable battery unit; wherein, when charging of said rechargeable battery unit is intended, said control unit enables movement of said mobile robot until said first light sensor detects light emitted by said light emitter and then stops movement of said mobile robot, enables rotation of said mobile robot until said second light sensor detects the light emitted by said light emitter, and while said second light emitting sensor detects the light emitted by said light emitter, enables movement of said mobile robot toward said charging device until said second charging contacts come into contact with said first charging contacts, thereby permitting charging of said rechargeable battery unit via the charging signal. 5. The mobile robotic system as claimed in 4, wherein said control unit activates said first and second light sensors upon detection that a residual power level of said rechargeable battery unit is below a threshold value. 6. The mobile robotic system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said control unit enables charging of said rechargeable battery unit via the charging signal only upon verifying that the charging signal complies with a power specification of said rechargeable battery unit. 7. The mobile robotic system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said mobile robot is a robotic vacuum floor cleaner. 8. The mobile robotic system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said first charging contacts extend horizontally. 9. The mobile robotic system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said light emitter is disposed between said first charging contacts. 10. The mobile robotic system as claimed in claim 8, wherein said first charging contacts are curved contacts that are disposed horizontally. 11. The mobile robotic system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said first side of said mobile robot is a lateral side. 12. The mobile robotic system as claimed in claim 11, wherein said second side of said mobile robot is a rear side. 13. The mobile robotic system as claimed in claim 12, wherein said first light sensor is disposed on said first side proximate to said second side. 14. The mobile robotic system as claimed in claim 4, wherein said second light sensor is disposed between said second charging contacts. 15. The mobile robotic system as claimed in claim 14, wherein said second charging contacts are spaced apart vertically. 