Methods and systems are provided for handling an item in a vacuum-based handling system for semiconductor manufacturing. The methods include providing a heater or dryer for the load lock of the handling system that dries a semiconductor wafer during the pumping down of the load lock.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A wafer fabrication method comprising: providing a processing module having an operating temperature substantially above an ambient temperature; receiving a wafer for introduction into the processing module, the wafer having a temperature near the ambient temperature; heating the wafer to a temperature that is closer to the operating temperature, and to a temperature that prevents condensation on a surface of the wafer when the wafer is introduced into the processing module; and cooling the wafer to a temperature that is closer to the ambient temperature before removing the wafer from a manufacturing process that includes the processing module, wherein cooling the wafer further comprises cooling the wafer to a temperature that prevents condensation on the wafer during a vacuum pump-down process. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein heating the wafer comprises using a dryer to dry the wafer. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein heating the wafer further comprises heating the wafer in a preheating station before transfer to the processing module. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the preheating station includes a load lock. 5. The method of claim 1 further comprising preheating a material handler before handling the wafer with the material handler. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the vacuum pump down includes an accelerated vacuum pump down. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein heating the wafer further comprises heating the wafer through an application of heat through a preheated material handler. 8. The method of claim 1 further comprising controlling a cooling of the wafer by controlling a temperature of a material handler that handles the wafer. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the load lock is heated to between about fifty degrees C. and about 100 degrees C. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the load lock is maintained at a pressure in a range between 1 torr and 100 torr. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the load lock is maintained at a pressure between 10 millitorr and 760 torr. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein cooling the wafer includes cooling the wafer with a shelf having a temperature above an ambient temperature. 13. A wafer fabrication system comprising: a processing module having an operating temperature substantially above an ambient temperature; and a material handler that heats a wafer to a temperature that is closer to the operating temperature before introducing the wafer into the processing module wherein the wafer is heated to a temperature that prevents condensation on a surface of the wafer when the wafer is introduced into the processing module, and wherein the wafer is heated during a vacuum pump down of the processing module. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein heating the wafer further comprises heating the wafer in a preheating station before transfer to the processing module. 15. The system of claim 13 further comprising a cooling means for cooling the wafer to a temperature that is closer to the ambient temperature before removing the wafer from a manufacturing process that includes the processing module. 16. The system of claim 15 wherein cooling the wafer further comprises cooling the wafer to a temperature that prevents condensation on the wafer when the wafer is removed from the manufacturing process. 17. The system of claim 13 wherein the material handler is preheated before handling the wafer. 18. The system of claim 13 wherein the vacuum pump down includes an accelerated vacuum pump down. 19. The system of claim 13 wherein the wafer is heated through an application of heat through a preheated material handler. 20. The system of claim 13 wherein the wafer is cooled by controlling a temperature of a material handler that handles the wafer. 21. The method of claim 13 wherein the material handler moves the wafer between the processing module and a load lock. 22. A wafer fabrication method comprising: providing a processing module having an operating temperature substantially above an ambient temperature; receiving a wafer for introduction into the processing module, the wafer having a temperature near the ambient temperature; and heating the wafer to a temperature that is closer to the operating temperature, and to a temperature that prevents condensation on a surface of the wafer when the wafer is introduced into the processing module, wherein heating the wafer further comprises heating the wafer during a vacuum pump down of the processing module. 23. The method of claim 22 wherein the vacuum pump down includes an accelerated vacuum pump down. 24. The method of claim 22 wherein heating the wafer includes applying heat through a preheated material handler. 25. The method of claim 22 further comprising cooling the wafer upon a removal of the wafer from the processing module. 26. The method of claim 25 wherein cooling includes controlling a temperature of a material handler that handles the wafer during the removal. 27. A wafer fabrication method comprising: providing a processing module having an operating temperature substantially above an ambient temperature; receiving a wafer for introduction into the processing module, the wafer having a temperature near the ambient temperature; heating the wafer to a temperature that is closer to the operating temperature, and to a temperature that prevents condensation on a surface of the wafer when the wafer is introduced into the processing module; and cooling the wafer to a temperature that is closer to the ambient temperature before removing the wafer from a manufacturing process that includes the processing module, wherein cooling the wafer includes cooling the wafer with a shelf having a temperature above an ambient temperature. 28. The method of claim 27 further comprising receiving a plurality of wafers. 29. The method of claim 27 further comprising heating a plurality of wafers. 30. The method of claim 27 further comprising cooling a plurality of wafers. 31. A semiconductor handling method, comprising: providing a load lock for delivering items to or receiving items from a vacuum-based semiconductor handling system; heating the load lock to dry the items, wherein the load lock is heated to between about fifty degrees C. and about 100 degrees C., wherein the items include at least one wafer; and cooling the at least one wafer to a temperature that is closer to the ambient temperature while the at least one wafer is in the load lock, wherein cooling includes cooling with an element heated above an ambient temperature. 32. The method of claim 31 wherein the items include a carrier for a plurality of wafers. 33. The method of claim 31 wherein the element include a material handler. 34. The method of claim 31 wherein the load lock is positioned at a point between an entry point and an exit point of a linear system of processing modules. 