A media cartridge is constructed as a case in which a roll of blank media may be deployed for supplying a wallpaper printer. The case has two halves, hinged together. An area between the two halves, when they are closed, defines a media supply slot. The case has internally and adjacent to the slot, a pair of rollers. At least one of the rollers is a driven roller which is supported at each end, by the case, for rotation by an external motor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A media cartridge, comprising: a case in which a roll of blank media may be deployed; the case having two halves, hinged together, an area between the two halves, when closed, defining a media supply slot; the case having internally and adjacent to the slot, a pair of rollers, at least one of the rollers being a driven roller which is supported at each end, by the case, for rotation by an external motor; the cartridge further comprising at least one support molding adapted to engage a shaft for said roll of media and said pair of rollers to retain said shaft and said pair of rollers in an operative association with respect to each other. 2. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the two rollers are held in proximity by a resilient bias, one roller on either side of the slot. 3. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 2, wherein: the rollers are held in proximity by a pair of said support moldings; each roller having a circumferential slot at each end; each support molding having two extensions which engage the slots of both rollers at one end. 4. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 3, wherein: the two extensions of a support molding are joined to a support molding body, the body having a central opening for receiving and locating a core which fits in the case. 5. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 4, wherein: the support molding body has an anti-rotation feature which is adapted to engage with a cooperating feature of a core, to prevent the core from rotating in the case. 6. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 5, further comprising: a core, adapted to cooperate with the support molding body by engaging with the anti-rotation feature. 7. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 6, wherein: the case has at one or both ends, slots for receiving and retaining a support molding body. 8. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 3, wherein: the support moldings are reversible and adapted to be used at either end of the case. 9. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the driven roller has at one end, a fixture for coupling to a driving shaft, the case having an opening which allows access to the fixture. 10. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: an integral handle at one end of the case. 11. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a folding handle located on a top surface of the case. 12. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: an integral handle at one end of the case and a folding handle located on a top surface of the case. 13. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the case is a molded polymeric case with an integral hinge, held in a closed position by one or more clips. 14. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the driven roller is longer than the other roller, the other roller being an idler roller which is contained within the case when it is closed. 15. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the two case halves are formed as a single molding with an integral hinge, the molding having formed in it internal slots for receiving a pair of support moldings. 16. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 1, wherein: one case half has formed in it a journal at each end for supporting one of the rollers. 17. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 1, wherein: one case half has formed in it a journal at each end for supporting the driven roller. 18. A media cartridge as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a core which is located in the case, the core having around it, a supply of blank wallpaper media. 