A controller f or multi-DOF active vibration isolation accounts for plant uncertainties and payload disturbances using dynamic frequency-shaped sliding control. Modal decomposition rewrites a multi-DOF vibration control problem as a combination of modal problems. Modal parameters can be extracted. Target frequency-domain performance, e.g., a skyhook, is recast as a frequency-shaped sliding surface. Boundary layer approximation is examined. Skyhook can be robustly achieved. The manifold is also extends to adaptive vibration isolation without model reference. Nonlinear target dynamics of the same order as the plant can be attained. Control can be achieved without measuring excitation or knowing mass, stiffness and damping matrices. Control for plants subject to disturbances other than vibration can be achieved for any that can be described by equations the same character as those that describe mechanical dynamic systems. The target dynamics can be any, even non-linear.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a. an interface, configured to be coupled to an input of at least one actuator that is coupled to a plant that is subject to a vibration excitation, that experiences states, and that is to be controlled to achieve a target performance that isolates the plant from the vibration excitation; b. coupled to the interface, a controller, configured to generate signals to control the at least one actuator so that the states of the plant are such that, a dynamic manifold .sigma. defined as follows, equals 0, where .sigma. is defined: i. by a function of the states and a dynamic linear operator L(s), which is a function of the Laplace operator, s, and which operates on at least one of the states; and ii. such that, if .sigma.=0, then the target performance is achieved. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, further wherein the controller is for use with a plant that is subject to a vibration excitation x.sub.0 and operates with a performance x, the function that defines the dynamic manifold .sigma. being of: first derivative of performance {dot over (x)}; and a difference between performance and vibration excitation, x-x.sub.0. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, further wherein the linear operator L(s) operates upon a state of difference between performance and vibration excitation, x-x.sub.0. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further wherein the dynamic manifold .sigma. is further defined by a dynamic linear operator Q(s) which operates upon a first derivative {dot over (x)} of performance. 5. The apparatus of claim 2, further wherein the linear operator L(s) operates upon a state of first derivative {dot over (x)} of performance. 6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein: a. the target performance is a skyhook supported performance; b. dynamic manifold .sigma.=L(s)(x-x.sub.0)+{dot over (x)}; and c. L(s)=(b.sub.0)/(s+a.sub.0), where b.sub.0 represents a spring coefficient and a.sub.0 represents a damping coefficient. 7. The apparatus of claim 2, the controller configured to generate signals to control the at least one actuator, which signals are a function of the dynamic linear operator L(s), which operates upon a state of difference between performance and vibration excitation, x-x.sub.0. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the excitation is a position vibration and the performance is a position. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the excitation is a velocity vibration and the performance is a velocity. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, the controller configured to generate signals to control the at least one actuator, which signals are a function of the dynamic linear operator L(s). 11. The apparatus of claim 1, the controller configured to generate signals to control the at least one actuator, which signals are a function of the dynamic manifold .sigma.. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, the controller configured to generate signals to control the at least one actuator, which signals are a function of a Sgn function of the dynamic manifold .sigma.. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, the controller configured to generate signals to control the at least one actuator, which signals are a continuous approximation of a Sgn function, within a boundary layer of the dynamic manifold .sigma.. 14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plant is a single input and single output plant, the states are in normal coordinates, and the controller is configured to generate a signal to control a single actuator. 15. The apparatus of claim 1, the controller further configured to drive .sigma. to equal 0 using sliding control. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, the controller further configured to drive .sigma. to be near equal to 0 using sliding control with a boundary layer. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, the plant being of order n, where n is a positive integer and the target performance having dynamics of order equal to n or greater than n. 18. The apparatus of claim 1, the plant being of order n, where n is a positive integer and the target performance having dynamics of order equal to n. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, a target performance for each mode of the plant being a skyhook damped performance. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, the plant being of order n, where n is a positive integer and the target performance having dynamics of order less than n. 21. The apparatus of claim 1, the plant having n DOF, where n is a positive integer, and the target performance having dynamics of order equal to 2n. 22. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is for use with a plant that is a traveling vehicle. 23. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is for use with a plant that is a passenger vehicle. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is for use with a plant that is an instrumentation support. 25. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is for use with a plant that is an instrument vibration isolation support. 26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein the controller is for use with a plant that is to isolate vibration from equipment carried by a helicopter. 27. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is for use with a plant that is to isolate vibration from laboratory equipment. 28. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plant is a multiple degree of freedom (DOF) plant having a plurality of actuators, and defined by a plurality of modes, each to be controlled to achieve a target modal performance, further wherein: a. the dynamic manifold .sigma. is a set of modal dynamic manifolds .sigma..sub.i, each corresponding to one of the plurality of modes; b. the controller is configured to generate, for each of the plurality of actuators, a signal that drives the actuator, so that the states of the multi DOF plant are such that, for each mode, a modal dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i equals 0, where .sigma..sub.i is defined: i. by a function of the states in modal coordinates and a modal dynamic linear operator L.sub.i(s), which is a function of the Laplace operator, s, and which operates on at least one of the states in modal coordinates; and ii. such that, if .sigma..sub.i=0, then the target performance is achieved. 29. The apparatus of claim 28, the controller configured to generate a signal that is a function of the dynamic linear operator L(s). 30. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plant is one mode of a multi degree of freedom (DOF) plant, that has at least one actuator, the modal plant having states in modal coordinates and to be controlled to achieve a target modal performance, further wherein: a. the dynamic manifold .sigma. is a modal dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.1; and b. the controller is configured to generate, for the modal plant, a force signal u.sub.i in modal coordinates, to be a component of a force signal that is supplied to a modal combination module, configured to combine modal force signals corresponding to other modes and to generate signals to drive the at least one actuator[s] so that the states of the modal plant are such that the modal dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i equals zero, where .sigma..sub.i is defined: i. by a function of the states of the modal plant and a modal dynamic linear operator L.sub.i(s), which is a function of the Laplace operator s, and which modal dynamic linear operator operates on at least one of the states of the modal plant; and ii. such that, if .sigma..sub.i equals zero, then the target modal performance is achieved. 31. The apparatus of claim 30, further where the force signal u.sub.i is defined by a function of a predetermined estimation of a modal parameter. 32. The apparatus of claim 30, further where the force signal u.sub.i is defined by a function of a predetermined estimation of modal frequency. 33. The apparatus of claim 30, further where the force signal u.sub.i is defined by a function of a predetermined estimation of a modal damping parameter. 34. The apparatus of claim 30, the controller further comprising a modal combination module, configured to combine the corresponding force signals u.sub.i for at least two modes and generate for each of the at least one actuators, a signal v.sub.i to drive the actuator, so that the states are such that .sigma..sub.i=0. 35. The apparatus of claim 30, further wherein the controller is for use with a plant that is subject to a plurality of modal vibration excitations, a single such excitation being designated x.sub.0i, and where the plant exhibits a plurality of modal performances, a single such performance in modal coordinates being designated x.sub.i, the function defining the modal dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i being of the states in modal coordinates of: first derivative of performance; and difference between vibration excitation and performance. 36. The apparatus of claim 35, further wherein, for the modal dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i, a dynamic linear operator L.sub.i(s) operates on the state of difference between performance and vibration excitation, both in modal coordinates. 37. The apparatus of claim 36, wherein the modal target performance is a skyhook supported performance, and the modal dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i=L.sub.i(s)(x.sub.i-x.sub.i0)+{dot over (x)}.sub.i and L.sub.i(s)=b.sub.0/(s+a.sub.0), where b.sub.0 represents a modal spring coefficient and a.sub.0 represents a modal damping parameter. 38. The apparatus of claim 1, the controller further configured to drive .sigma. to zero while using adaptive control by updating estimation online of unknown parameters chosen from the group consisting of at least one component of matrices of: mass, damping, stiffness and friction. 39. The apparatus of claim 1, further wherein the controller is for use with a multi degree of freedom (DOF) plant that is subject to a vibration excitation vector z.sub.0 and operates with a performance vector z, and the dynamic manifold .sigma. is a vector function of the states of the plant. 40. The apparatus of claim 1, further wherein the controller is for use with a multi degree of freedom (DOF) plant that is subject to a vibration excitation vector z.sub.0 and operates with a performance vector z, and the dynamic manifold .sigma. is a vector function of the states of first derivative of performance , and difference between vibration excitation z.sub.0 and performance z. 41. The apparatus of claim 40, further wherein the dynamic linear operator L(s) is a matrix that operates upon the state of difference between vibration excitation z.sub.0 and performance z. 42. The apparatus of claim 40, further wherein: a. the target performance is a skyhook supported damped performance; b. the dynamic manifold vector .sigma.=L(s)(z-z.sub.0)+ ; and c. L(s)=(sI+ C).sup.-1 K, where I is the identity matrix and C and K are preselected damping and stiffness matrices, respectively, to meet the target performance. 43. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the plant has an order and the target performance dynamics have an order, and the plant and target performance dynamics orders are equal. 44. The apparatus of claim 40, wherein the plant has an order and the target performance dynamics have an order, which is greater than the plant order. 45. The apparatus of claim 40, further comprising: a. a parameter adaptation module, which applies a law {circumflex over ({dot over (a)} that is a function of the dynamic manifold .sigma.; b. a force rule generator, that generates as an output a force vector signal v, that is a function of .sigma. and an estimation a of unknown parameters a from matrices K, C and M, which represent spring coefficients, damping parameters and mass, respectively, of the plant; and i. if .sigma.=0, retains any present parameter estimate, and ii. if not, applies the parameter adaptation law. 46. A method comprising the steps of: a. providing a dynamic manifold .sigma. that is: i. a function of states of a plant that is subject to vibration excitation and is to achieve a target performance that exhibits a desired isolation of the plant from vibration; ii. a function of a dynamic linear operator L(s), which is a function of the Laplace operator, s; and iii. composed such that if the states are such that the dynamic manifold .sigma. equals zero, the target performance is attained; b. measuring the states and generating signals that correspond thereto; c. generating a signal that corresponds to the dynamic manifold .sigma., based on the state signals; and d. generating signals to at least one actuator that is coupled to the plant, to drive the at least one actuator so that the states of the plant are such that the dynamic manifold .sigma. equals 0. 47. The method of claim 46, further where the states are: a difference between a performance of the plant and a vibration excitation; and time derivative of performance. 48. The method of claim 46, further wherein the controller is for use with a plant that is subject to a vibration excitation x.sub.0 and operates with a performance x, the function that defines the dynamic manifold being of first derivative of performance {dot over (x)}, and a difference between performance and vibration excitation x-x.sub.0. 49. The method of claim 48, further wherein the linear operator L(s) operates upon the state of difference between performance and vibration excitation x-x.sub.0. 50. The method of claim 49, further wherein the dynamic manifold .sigma. is further defined by a dynamic linear operator Q(s), which operates upon a first derivative {dot over (x)} of performance. 51. The method of claim 48, further wherein the linear operator L(s) operates upon a first derivative {dot over (x)} of performance. 52. The method of claim 48, wherein: a. the target performance is a skyhook supported performance; b. the dynamic manifold .sigma.=L(s)(x-x.sub.0)+{dot over (x)}; and c. L(s) is a dynamic linear operator equal to (b.sub.0)/(s+a.sub.0), where b.sub.0 represents a spring coefficient and a.sub.0 represents a damping coefficient. 53. The method of claim 48, further comprising the step of generating signals to control the at least one actuator, which signals are a function of the dynamic linear operator L(s) which operates upon the state of difference between performance and vibration excitation, x-x.sub.0. 54. The method of claim 48, further wherein the dynamic linear operator L(s) is a matrix that operates upon the state of difference between vibration excitation z.sub.0 and performance z. 55. The method of claim 54, wherein: a. the target performance is a skyhook supported damped performance; b. the dynamic manifold .sigma.=L(s)(z-z.sub.0)+ ; and c. L(s)=(sI+ C).sup.-1 K, where I is the identity matrix and C and K are preselected damping and stiffness matrices, respectively, to meet the target performance. 56. The method of claim 46, wherein the excitation is a position vibration and the performance is a position. 57. The apparatus of claim 46, wherein the excitation is a velocity vibration and the performance is a velocity. 58. The method of claim 46, further comprising the step of generating signals to control the at least one actuator, which signals are a function of the dynamic linear operator L(s). 59. The method of claim 46, the step of generating signals to control the at least one actuator, comprising generating signals that are a function of the dynamic manifold .sigma.. 60. The method of claim 46, the step of generating signals to control the at least one actuator, comprising generating signals that are a function of a Sgn function of the dynamic manifold .sigma.. 61. The method of claim 46, the step of generating signals to control the at least one actuator, comprising generating signals that are a continuous approximation of a Sgn function, within a boundary layer of .sigma.. 62. The method of claim 46, wherein the plant is a single input and single output plant, the states are in normal coordinates, and the step of generating a signal to control at least one actuator comprises generating a signal to control a single actuator. 63. The method of claim 46, the plant being of order n, which is a positive integer, and the target performance having dynamics of order equal to or greater than n. 64. The method of claim 46, the plant being of order n, which is a positive integer, and the target performance having dynamics of order equal to n. 65. The method of claim 46, the plant being of order n, which is a positive integer, and the target performance having dynamics of order less than n. 66. The method of claim 46, the plant having n Degrees of Freedom (DOF), where n is a positive integer, and the target performance having dynamics of order equal to 2n. 67. The method of claim 66, the plant further being defined by a plurality of modes, the target performance for at least one mode being a skyhook supported performance. 68. The method of claim 66, the plant being defined by at least one mode, target performance for at least one mode being a skyhook damped performance. 69. The method of claims 46, the step of generating signals to drive the actuators comprising using sliding control to generate signals to drive .sigma. to equal 0. 70. The method of claim 69, the step of using sliding control comprising using sliding control with a boundary layer. 71. The method of claim 46, wherein the plant is a traveling vehicle. 72. The method of claim 46, wherein the plant is a passenger vehicle. 73. The method of claim 46, wherein the plant is an instrument support. 74. The method of claim 46, wherein the plant is an instrument vibration isolation support. 75. The method of claim 74, wherein the plant is a vibration isolator for equipment carried by a helicopter. 76. The method of claim 74, wherein the plant is a vibration isolator for laboratory equipment. 77. The method of claim 46, wherein the plant is a multiple degree of freedom (DOF) plant, having a plurality of actuators, and defined by a plurality of modes, the plant to be controlled to achieve, for each mode, a target modal performance, further wherein the step of generating signals to at least one actuator comprises the steps of: a. generating, for each of the plurality of modes, a force signal u.sub.i in modal coordinates; b. combining each signal u.sub.i with corresponding modal force signals for each other of the plurality of modes; and c. generating, for each of the plurality of actuators, a signal v.sub.l that drives the actuator so that the states of the multi-DOF plant are such that, for each mode, a modal dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i equals zero, which dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i is defined: i. by a function of the states in modal coordinates and a modal dynamic linear operator L(s), which which operates on at least one of the states in modal coordinates; and ii. such that, if .sigma..sub.i=0, then the target performance is achieved. 78. The method of claim 46, wherein the plant has states in modal coordinates, and is one mode of a multi degree of freedom (DOF) plant that has at least one actuator, the modal plant having states in modal coordinates and to be controlled to achieve a target modal performance, further wherein the step of generating signals to at least one actuator comprises the steps of: a. generating, for the modal plant, a force signal u.sub.i in modal coordinates; b. combining the signal u.sub.i with other force signals; and c. generating, for the at least one actuator, a signal v.sub.l that drives the actuator so that the states of the multi DOF plant are such that for the single mode, a modal dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i equals zero, which dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i is defined: i. by a function of the states in modal coordinates and a modal dynamic linear operator L.sub.i(s), which operates on at least one of the states in modal coordinates; and ii. such that, if .sigma..sub.i=0, then the modal target performance is achieved. 79. The method of claim 78, further where the step of generating a force signal u.sub.i comprises generating a signal that is based on a function of a predetermined estimation of a modal parameter. 80. The method of claim 79, further comprising the step of conducting modal testing to generate the predetermined estimation of a modal parameter. 81. The method of claim 78, further where the step of generating a force signal u.sub.i comprises generating a signal that is based on a function of a predetermined estimation of modal frequency. 82. The method of claim 81, further comprising the step of conducting modal testing to generate the predetermined estimation of modal frequency. 83. The method of claim 78, further where the step of generating a force signal u.sub.i for the at least one actuator[s] comprises generating a signal that is based on a function of a predetermined estimation of modal frequency. 84. The method of claim 78, further where the step of generating a force signal u.sub.i comprises generating a signal that is a function of a predetermined estimation of a modal damping parameter. 85. The method of claim 84, further comprising the step of conducting modal testing to generate the predetermined estimation of a modal damping parameter. 86. The method of claim 78, further where the step of generating a force signal u.sub.i for the at least one actuators comprises generating a signal that is a function of a predetermined estimation of a modal damping parameter. 87. The method of claim 78, further wherein the method is for use with a plant that is subject to a modal vibration excitation, in modal coordinates, being designated x.sub.0i, and where the plant provides a modal performances in modal coordinates being designated x.sub.i, further wherein the step of generating, for at least one actuator, a signal, comprises generating a signal that drives the at least one actuator so that a modal dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i=0, which dynamic manifold is defined by a function of the states in modal coordinates. 88. The method of claim 87, further wherein the states are: first derivative of performance; and difference between vibration excitation and performance. 89. The method of claim 87, further wherein, the linear operator L.sub.i(s) operates on the state of difference between performance and vibration excitation, both in modal coordinates. 90. The method of claim 89, wherein for the at least one mode: a. the target performance is a skyhook supported performance; b. the modal dynamic manifold .sigma.=L.sub.i(s)(x.sub.i-x.sub.i0)+{dot over (x)}.sub.i; and c. L.sub.i(s)=b.sub.0/(s+a.sub.0), where b.sub.0 represents a modal spring coefficient and a.sub.0 represents a modal damping parameter. 91. The method of claim 78, the step of generating for the mode a force signal comprising generating, a signal that is a function of the dynamic linear operator L.sub.i(s). 92. The method of claim 78, the step of generating, for the at least one actuator, a signal that drives the actuator comprising generating a signal that is a function of the dynamic linear operator L(s). 93. The method of claim 46, the step of generating signals to drive the at least one actuator comprising using adaptive control to generate signals to drive .sigma. to equal 0 while updating estimation online of unknown parameters chosen from the group consisting of at least one component of matrices of: mass, damping, stiffness and friction. 94. The method of claim 93, wherein the plant has an order and the target dynamics performance have an order, and the plant and target dynamics performance orders are equal. 95. The method of claim 93, wherein the plant has an order and the target dynamics performance have an order, which is greater than the plant order. 96. The method of claim 93, wherein the plant has an order the target dynamics performance have an order, which is less than the plant order. 97. The method of claim 46, further wherein the plant is a multi degree of freedom (DOF) plant that is subject to a vibration excitation vector z.sub.0 and operates with a performance vector z, and the dynamic manifold .sigma. is a vector function of the states of the plant. 98. The method of claim 46, further wherein the plant is a multi degree of freedom (DOF) plant that is subject to a vibration excitation vector z.sub.0 and operates with a performance vector z, and the dynamic manifold .sigma. is a vector function of the states of first derivative of performance , and difference between vibration excitation z.sub.0 and performance z. 99. The method of claim 46, the step of generating signals to at least one actuator further comprising: a. applying a parameter adaptation law {circumflex over ({dot over (a)} for adapting unknown parameters a for unknown parameters a from matrices K, C and M, which represent spring coefficients, damping ratios and mass, respectively, of the plant, which adaptation law is a function of .sigma., composed such that: i. if .sigma. is not equal to 0, changes values for at least one of the parameters; and ii. if .sigma. is equal to 0, retains any present estimate for the parameters; and b. generating a force vector signal v, that is a function of the dynamic manifold .sigma. and the estimation a of unknown parameters a. 100. Software stored on a medium that is readable by a signal processor equipped with an appropriate peripheral reading device, comprising instructions for causing a processor to perform the steps of: a. providing a dynamic manifold .sigma. that is: i. a function of states of a plant that is subject to vibration excitation and is to achieve a target performance that exhibits a desired isolation of the plant from vibration; ii. a function of a dynamic linear operator L(s), which is a function of the Laplace operator, s; and iii. composed such that if the states are such that the dynamic manifold .sigma. equals zero, the target performance is attained; b. measuring the states and generating signals that correspond thereto; c. generating a signal that corresponds to the dynamic manifold .sigma., based on the state signals; and d. generating signals to at least one actuator that is coupled to the plant, to drive the at least one actuator so that the states of the plant are such that the dynamic manifold .sigma. equals 0. 101. The software of claim 100, further wherein the controller is for use with a plant that is subject to a vibration excitation x.sub.0 and operates with a performance x, the software further comprising instructions for causing a computer to set the function that defines the dynamic manifold to be of states of first derivative of performance {dot over (x)}, and a difference between performance and vibration excitation x-x.sub.0. 102. The software of claim 100, further wherein the target performance is a skyhook supported performance, the software further comprising instructions for causing a computer to set; a. the dynamic manifold .sigma.=L(s)(x-x.sub.0)+{dot over (x)}; and b. L(s), equal to (b.sub.0)/(s+a.sub.0), where b.sub.0 represents a spring coefficient and a.sub.0 represents a damping coefficient. 103. The software of claim 100, further comprising instructions for causing a computer to use sliding control to generate signals to the actuators to drive .sigma. to equal 0. 104. The software of claim 100, further wherein the plant has states in modal coordinates, and is one mode of a multi degree of freedom (DOF) plant that has at least one actuator, the modal plant having states in modal coordinates and is to be controlled to achieve a target modal performance, the software comprising instructions for further causing a computer to perform the steps of: a. generating, for the modal plant, a force signal u.sub.i in modal coordinates; b. combining the signal u.sub.i with other force signals; and c. generating, for the at least one actuator, a signal v.sub.l that drives the actuator so that the states of the multi DOF plant are such that for the single mode, a modal dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i equals zero, which dynamic manifold .sigma..sub.i is defined: i. by a function of the states in modal coordinates and a modal dynamic linear operator L.sub.i(s), which is a function of the Laplace operator, s, and which operates on at least one of the states in modal coordinates; and ii. such that, if .sigma..sub.i=0, then the modal target performance is achieved. 105. The software of claim 104, further comprising instructions for causing a computer to perform the step of generating a force signal u.sub.i that is based on a function of a predetermined estimation of a modal parameter. 106. The software of claim 100, further comprising instructions for causing a computer to perform the step of generating signals to drive the actuators using adaptive control to generate signals to drive .sigma. to equal 0 while updating estimation online of unknown parameters chosen from the group consisting of at least one component of matrices of: mass, damping, stiffness and friction. 107. The software of claim 106, further wherein the plant is a multi degree of freedom (DOF) plant that is subject to a vibration excitation vector z.sub.0 and operates with a performance vector z, and the target performance is a skyhook supported damped performance, the software further comprising instructions for causing the computer to perform the steps of setting: a. the dynamic manifold .sigma.=L(s)(z-z.sub.0)+ ; and b. L(s)=(sI+ C).sup.31 1 K, where I is the identity matrix and C and K are preselected damping and stiffness matrices, respectively, to meet the target performance. 