The specification discloses a robot for inspection adapted to travel virtually unlimited distances through small-diameter enclosed spaces such as conduits or ducts, preferably using a fluid-driven screw-drive propulsion system. The robot preferably includes a drive module having a plurality of wheels inclined at an angle greater than zero degrees and less than ninety degrees to the longitudinal axis of the pipe, a driver module having a plurality of wheels aligned parallel to the longitudinal axis of the pipe, and a power module. The driver module is preferably connected to the drive module such that the drive and driver modules are capable of providing the locomotive motion of the robot. The power module preferably provides the power to the drive and driver modules.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An autonomous robot for traversing a conduit comprising: a body; a drive system capable of extracting energy from a flow of fluid through the conduit and using the energy to advance the body along the inside of the conduit; and at least one sensor mounted on said body; wherein the drive system includes at least one set of pitched wheels and at least one set of non-pitched wheels; wherein at least one of said wheels is supported on a suspension system and said suspension system is actuatable between a first position in which all of said pitched wheels contact said conduit and a second position in which at least one of said pitched wheels is retracted such that the section on which said retracted wheel is mounted can rotate freely within the conduit; and wherein at least one of said wheels can be retracted by the robot in the event of a locomotion failure. 2. The robot according to claim 1 wherein said robot includes at least first and second portions connected via a flexible coupling. 3. The robot according to claim 1 wherein said body comprises: a first end section; a second end section; and a motor; wherein said motor is disposed between said end sections. 4. The robot according to claim 3, further including a rotatable shaft connecting at least one of said end sections to said motor. 5. The robot according to claim 4 wherein said motor receives power from said power module. 6. The robot according to claim 5 wherein said motor rotates said shaft, causing said first end section to rotate relative to said second end section. 7. The robot according to claim 3 wherein said pitched wheels are located on at least one of said first and second end sections. 8. The robot according to claim 7 wherein the pitch of the wheels is variable. 9. The robot according to claim 7 wherein each of said end sections supports three wheels located 120.degree. apart about the circumference of said end section. 10. The robot according to claim 1, further comprising a suspension system supporting at least one of said wheels. 11. The robot according to claim 10, wherein at least one suspension system is actuatable between a first position in which all of said pitched wheels contact said conduit and a second position in which at least one of said pitched wheels is retracted. 12. The robot according to claim 1 wherein said wheels comprise polymeric tires having ball bearing hubs. 13. The robot according to claim 1, wherein said drive system includes paddles or sails for deriving power from a fluid flow past the robot. 14. The robot according to claim 13 wherein the power generated by said paddles or sails is stored in a battery prior to use. 15. The robot according to claim 1 further comprising at least one optical encoder located on one of said wheels. 16. The robot according to claim 15 wherein said optical encoder tracks distance traveled. 17. The robot according to claim 1 wherein said body includes: an integrated circuit supported on said body; and a battery supported on said body. 18. The robot according to claim 17 wherein said integrated circuit comprises: a master control unit; memory; a communications interface; and a plurality of input/output controls. 19. The robot according to claim 18 wherein said master control unit is a microprocessor that executes an operating system. 20. The robot according to claim 19 wherein said memory comprises long-term and volatile components. 21. The robot according to claim 20 wherein said memory further comprises software and databases. 22. The robot according to claim 19 wherein said memory includes at least one software module selected from the group consisting of database managers, master control programs, fault detection and resolution modules, navigation modules, sensor management modules, drive motor control modules, and tool control modules, and said operating system communicates with at least one of said software modules. 23. The robot according to claim 22 wherein said memory includes a fault detection and resolution module that is capable of testing for locomotion failures and actuating an extension or a retraction of said wheels on said drive segment. 24. The robot according to claim 22 wherein the robot further includes an optical encoder and said navigation module records data provided by said optical encoder. 25. The robot according to claim 24 wherein said navigation module further time tags the optical encoder information. 26. The robot according to claim 25 wherein said sensor management model performs real-time sensing information processing. 27. The robot according to claim 26 wherein said sensor management model further reduces and time tags the sensing information. 28. The robot according to claim 18 wherein said communications interface is adapted to receive information from and transmit information to a remote location. 29. The robot according to claim 28 wherein said communications interface is adapted to receive and transmit information via light, remote control, air pulses, fluid pulses, acoustic frequency waves, radio frequency waves, or a combination thereof. 30. The robot according to claim 28 wherein said communications interface is an antenna. 31. The robot according to claim 28 wherein said input/output controls comprise a plurality of sensors, tools, actuators, or a combination thereof. 32. The robot according to claim 31 wherein said sensors are selected from the group consisting of Hall effect sensors, ultrasonic sensors, acoustic sensors, visual and optical inspection sensors, radiographic sensors, magnetic particle sensors, magnetic field sensors, electrical and eddy current sensors, penetrant sensors, pressure sensors, chemical sensors, leak sensors, microwave sensors, pressure and flow sensors, and thermal sensors. 33. The robot according to claim 31 wherein said tools are selected from the group consisting of repair tools, servicing tools, hardness, testing tools, and sample collection tools. 34. The robot according to claim 31 wherein said actuators are selected from the group consisting of motor control and navigation actuators. 35. The robot according to claim 17 wherein said drive system charges said battery. 36. The robot according to claim 1 wherein said drive system includes a power tether. 37. The robot according to claim 1 wherein said drive system includes a battery. 38. The robot according to claim 1 wherein said drive system includes a turbine system. 39. The robot according to claim 38 wherein said turbine system comprises: a fan; a generator; and a shaft disposed between the generator and shaft for transmitting torque from the fan to the generator. 40. The robot according to claim 38 wherein said turbine system is driven by fluid flowing in the conduit. 41. The robot according to claim 38 wherein said turbine system is driven by compressed air or inert gas. 42. The robot according to claim 1 wherein the robot further comprises at least one additional module. 43. The robot according to claim 42 wherein said additional module is selected from the group consisting of payload, sensor, power equipment, and memory modules. 44. The robot according to claim 1 wherein the drive system includes a power module comprising a fan, a generator, and a shaft disposed between said generator and said fan. 45. The robot device according to claim 1 wherein at least one of said wheels can be extended and retracted in response to commands sent by said integrated circuit to said locomotive modules, such that the robotic device is capable of operating in an active mode in which said at least one wheel engages the conduit and is driven by power from said power module so as to propel the device and a passive mode in which said at least one wheel does not propel the device. 46. An autonomous robot for traversing a conduit comprising: a drive module having a plurality of pitched wheels, said pitched wheels being oriented such that each of their axes defines a pitch angle greater than zero degrees and less than ninety degrees with respect to the longitudinal axis of the conduit, said pitched wheels lying in at least one helical row; a driver module connected to said drive module, said driver module having a plurality of wheels aligned parallel to the longitudinal axis of the conduit; and a power module; wherein said drive and driver modules cooperate to provide locomotive motion of the robot, and wherein said power module provides power for said locomotive motion, further comprising a suspension system supporting at least one of said wheels, wherein at least one suspension system is actuatable between a first position in which all of said pitched wheels contact said conduit and a second position in which at least one of said pitched wheels is retracted such that the section on which said retracted wheel is mounted can rotate freely within the conduit, and wherein said suspension system comprises cam-driven cartridges. 47. An autonomous robot for traversing a conduit comprising: a drive module having a plurality of pitched wheels, said pitched wheels being oriented such that each of their axes defines a pitch angle greater than zero degrees and less than ninety degrees with respect to the longitudinal axis of the conduit; a driver module connected to said drive module, said driver module having a plurality of wheels aligned parallel to the longitudinal axis of the conduit; and a power module, said power module comprising a turbine system; wherein said drive and driver modules provide locomotive motion of the robot, and wherein said power module provides the power for said locomotive motion; wherein said turbine system is capable of producing power regardless of the direction in which fluid is flowing through the conduit; and wherein at least one of said wheels is supported on a suspension system and said suspension system is actuatable between a first position in which all of said pitched wheels contact said conduit and a second position in which at least one of said pitched wheels is retracted such that the section on which said retracted wheel is mounted can rotate freely within the conduit. 48. The robot according to claim 47 wherein the robot is no more than six inches in diameter. 49. An autonomous robot for traversing a conduit comprising: a drive module having a plurality of pitched wheels, said pitched wheels being oriented such that each of their axes defines a pitch angle greater than zero degrees and less than ninety degrees with respect to the longitudinal axis of the conduit; a driver module rotatably connected to said drive module, said driver module having a plurality of wheels aligned parallel to the longitudinal axis of the conduit; a power module for providing power to cause rotation of said drive module relative to said driver module; and a suspension system supporting at least one of said wheels, said suspension system comprising at least one cam-driven cartridge, wherein said suspension system is actuatable between a first position in which all of said pitched wheels contact said conduit and a second position in which at least one of said pitched wheels is refracted such that the section on which said retracted wheel is mounted can rotate freely within the conduit. 