An apparatus comprises a body having a torus skin with inner and outer layers, and a drive system configured to propel the apparatus by moving the inner layer relative to the outer layer. The active skin propulsion system allows movement and steering of a device. A drive system includes a plurality of drive segments coupled together so that the skin engaging unit of the drive segment frictionally moves the inner layer of the torus skin relative to the outer layer of the torus skin. As a result of the relative skin motion and contact with the surface by the outer layer of the torus skin, the body is propelled and may be steered.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus, comprising: a body having a circumference and a torus skin defining an inner run and an outer run, the outer run of the torus skin forming the circumference; and a drive system configured to propel the apparatus by moving the inner run relative to the outer run; wherein the drive system includes a motion assisting component and wherein the motion assisting component includes a friction imparting ring arranged between and in contact with the inner run and outer run of the skin. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the motion assisting component includes one of an idler wheel and idler gear. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the drive system further includes a drive wheel configured to frictionally engage the skin. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further including a plurality of drive wheels positioned to frictionally engage the skin uniformly within a perimeter of a cross-section defined by the inner run of the body. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the torus skin is made from an elastomeric material. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the torus skin forms an airtight enclosure between the inner and outer runs. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the torus skin forms a waterproof enclosure between the inner and outer runs. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the drive system is configured to enable the body to move rectilinearly by moving the inner run relative to the outer run. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the drive system is further configured to tension a first side of the body relative to an opposing side of the body enabling the body to move non-rectilinearly without substantial displacement of the inner run relative to the outer run. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising means for reducing torus skin wrinkling. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the friction imparting ring includes a plurality of bellowed regions. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the friction imparting ring includes a plurality of first regions and second regions, wherein the thickness of the first region is greater than the thickness of the second region. 13. An apparatus, comprising: a mechanically drivable active skin and a longitudinal center line, the drivable active skin including inner and outer runs forming a longitudinally oriented inner tube and a longitudinally oriented cylindrical outer surface for propulsion; and a drive system including a plurality of drive segments linked together horizontally, wherein said drive segments are located radially from the longitudinal center line and wherein the drive segments are configured to move horizontally and vertically relative to each other. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the drive segments have a drive wheel, a friction imparting ring, and a motor. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, further having friction enhancing elements, wherein the friction enhancing elements protrude from the skin. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the drive system further includes a plurality of motion assisting components spaced uniformly about the longitudinally oriented inner tube to allow any side up mobility. 17. An apparatus, comprising: a body having a torus skin, the torus skin defining a cylindrical inner tube and a cylindrical outer tube; and a drive system for propelling the apparatus by moving the cylindrical inner tube relative to the cylindrical outer tube including a motor and a plurality of drive wheels, the motor and drive wheels oriented radially inward of the cylindrical inner tube, wherein the drive wheels are configured for adjustable spacing relative to other drive wheels to allow non-rectilinear movement. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising: a longitudinal center line of both the cylindrical inner tube and the cylindrical outer tube, the motor oriented along the longitudinal center line. 19. The apparatus of claim 18, further comprising: a plurality of motors oriented along the longitudinal center line. 20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein a portion of the torus skin body; includes the plurality of motors evenly spaced along the portion of the torus skin body. 