Systems, methods, and devices for feeding articles to and removing articles from an automatic washer, for example, a tunnel-type automatic washer are provided. The systems and methods employ conveyors, for example, belt conveyors, gantry-type conveyors, and shuttle-type conveyors, for handling and conveying articles to or from a washer or an intermediate station. The conveyors utilize arm-end tooling adapted to grasp and manipulate at least one article, but may typically handle a plurality of articles. The arm-end tooling includes cylinder-based actuators that can be operated and controlled by an automated control system. The handling of the articles can be assisted by using a vision-based system. Aspects of the invention are suited for use in handling laboratory equipment, for example, utensils and containers, such as, laboratory animal cages, in particular, cage tops and cage bottoms.
Claims We claim: 1. An automated method of transferring at least one article from a first position to a second position, the method comprising: locating the at least one article in the first position using a vision-based system; determining whether the at least one article is misaligned and, when misaligned, ignoring the at least one article; when the at least one article is not misaligned, in response to instructions from the vision-based system, positioning an arm-end tool having a gripping assembly adjacent the at least one article, the arm end tool mounted to a conveyor; actuating the gripping assembly to grasp the at least one article; and transferring the at least one article from the first position to the second position by means of the conveyor. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising determining the orientation of the at least one article using the vision-based system. 3. The method as recited in claim 2, further comprising orienting the gripping assembly with the at least one article in response to the orientation determined by the vision-based system. 4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the first position comprises a first conveyor, and wherein locating the at least one article in the first position comprises locating the at least one article on the first conveyor. 5. The method as recited in claim 4, wherein the first conveyor comprises a discharge conveyor from a washer, and wherein locating the at least one article on the first conveyor comprises locating the at least one article on the discharge conveyor of the washer. 6. The method as recited in claim 4, wherein ignoring the at least one article comprises conveying the at least one article off of the first conveyor. 7. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein conveying the at least one article comprise allowing the at least one article to fall into a bin. 8. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one article comprises opposing inner surfaces, and wherein actuating the gripping assembly to grasp the at least one article comprises actuating the gripping assembly and engaging the opposing inner surfaces. 9. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one article comprises a cage bottom having opposing inner surfaces, and wherein actuating the gripping assembly to grasp the at least one article comprises actuating the gripping assembly and engaging the opposing inner surfaces of the cage bottom. 10. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the second position comprises a staging position. 11. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the vision-based system comprises a camera, and wherein locating the at least one article in the first position using the vision-based system comprises locating the at least one article with the camera. 12. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the method further comprises transferring the at least one article from the second position to a third position. 13. The method as recited in claim 12, wherein the method is practiced in less than 5 seconds. 14. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises one of a robot-type conveyor and a gantry-type conveyor. 15. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one article comprises a container, and wherein the method further comprises filling the at least one container with one of a gas, a liquid, and a solid. 