Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of kinesin-like 1. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding kinesin-like 1. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of kinesin-like 1 expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of kinesin-like 1 are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A compound 8 to 80 nucleobases in length targeted to a nucleic acid molecule encoding kinesin-like 1, wherein said compound specifically hybridizes-within a region of SEQ ID NO: 3 of said nucleic acid molecule encoding kinesin-like 1 and inhibits the expression of kinesin-like 1, and wherein said compound comprises at least an 8-nucleobase portion of SEQ ID NO: 25, 15 or 22. 2. The compound of claim 1 which is an antisense oligonucleotide. 3. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The compound of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The compound of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 8. The compound of claim 7 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric oligonucleotide. 10. A composition comprising the compound of claim 1 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 11. The composition of claim 10 further comprising a colloidal dispersion system. 12. The composition of claim 10 wherein the compound is an antisense oligonucleotide. 13. A method of inhibiting the expression of kinesin-like 1 in cells or tissues comprising contacting said cells or tissues with the compound of claim 1 so that expression of kinesin-like 1 is inhibited. 14. A method of treating an animal having a disease or condition associated with kinesin-like 1 comprising administering to said animal a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of the compound of claim 1 so that expression of kinesin-like 1 is inhibited. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the disease or condition is a hyperproliferative disorder. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the hyperproliferative disorder is cancer. 17. The method of claim 14 wherein the disease or condition is an autoimmune disease. 18. A method of arresting the cell cycle comprising administering the compound of claim 1. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein said cell cycle is arrested at the G2M phase. 