The present invention relates to an apparatus comprising a substrate having at least one assay station. The at least one assay station has at least a first assay station channel and at least a second assay station channel and the first and second assay station channels each separately being in communication with the at least one assay station. The apparatus has an arrangement of at least first and second multipurpose channels in communication with the first and second assay station channels, respectively. The first multipurpose channel and first assay station channel have internal surface characteristics conducive to conduction of a sample solution therethrough. There is at least one sample fluid inlet in communication with the at least first multipurpose channel, and at least one isolation-medium inlet in communication with the at least first and second multipurpose channels. The at least one second multipurpose channel has an internal surface portion non-conducive to conduction of said sample solution.
Claims We claim: 1. An apparatus comprising: a substrate having a least one assay station; an arrangement of at least one first multipurpose channel and at least one second multipurpose channel wherein said at least one assay station being situated in a position intermediate between said first and second multipurpose channels and in fluid communication therewith, wherein said first multipurpose channel has at least one surface characteristic conducive to conduction of a sample fluid therethrough and into said at least one assay station; at least one sample fluid inlet in communication with said at least first multipurpose channel; at least one isolation-medium inlet in communication with said at least first and second multipurpose channels to enable isolation medium to flow along said at least first and second multipurpose channels to isolate said at least one assay station after conduction of the sample fluid into said at least one assay station, said at least one second multipurpose channel having at least one surface characteristic non-conducive to conduction of said sample fluid; and at least one isolation medium outlet in communication with each of said first and second multipurpose channels, thereby allowing the isolation medium to flow in to said first and second multipurpose channels by purging the sample fluid in said first multipurpose channel and air in said second multipurpose channel through respective said outlets. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said fluid communication is via at least first and second assay station channels in communication with said first and second multipurpose channels. 3. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said internal surface of said second multipurpose channel and a surface of said second assay station channel immediately adjacent to the intersection of the second assay station channel and said second multipurpose channel are non-conducive to conduction of said sample fluid. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said first and second multipurpose channels provide a path by which said plurality of assay stations are sealed via the flow through of an isolation medium. 5. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said at least first and second multipurpose channels are in communication with a plurality of assay stations via the first and second assay station channels, respectively, of said plurality of assay stations. 6. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said plurality of assay stations are arranged to provide at least one of simultaneous or sequential filling of said plurality of assay stations with said sample fluid solution conducted thereto. 7. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein said plurality of assay stations are arranged to provide at least one of simultaneous or sequential filling of said first and second multipurpose channels with said isolation medium to seal said plurality of assay stations. 8. The apparatus according to claim 2 wherein said at least a portion of said at least one first assay station channel has a cross-sectional area that is less than the cross-sectional area of at least a portion of said at least second assay station channel. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said first multipurpose channel surface characteristic conducive to conduction of said sample fluid comprises at least one of internal surface characteristic and/or shape characteristic and said at least one second multipurpose channel surface characteristic that is not-conducive to conduction of said sample fluid comprises at least one of an internal surface portion and/or shape characteristics. 10. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the apparatus further comprises a sealing layer sealing at least one assay station. 11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein at least a portion of at least one of said assay station, first multipurpose channel and second multipurpose channel is formed in the substrate layer and at least a portion of at least one of said assay station, first multipurpose channel and second multipurpose channel is formed in the sealing layer. 12. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the internal surface of said first multipurpose channel permits flowthrough of at least one of a sample fluid, air and an isolation medium. 13. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the internal surface of said second multipurpose channel permits the flowthrough of at least one of air or an isolation-medium. 14. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of said assay station, first multipurpose channel and second multipurpose channel are formed in the substrate layer. 15. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said at least one assay station has disposed therein at least one reaction assay component. 16. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said sample fluid inlet is in communication with a sample fluid preparation element. 17. The apparatus of claim 16 further comprising at least one of a sample preparation chamber and a lid. 18. The apparatus according to claim 17 wherein said sample preparation chamber further comprises an absorbent. 19. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising at least one element for controlling fluid flow in at least one of said channels. 20. The apparatus according to claim 19 wherein said at least one flow controlling element is disposed between said sample preparation chamber and said at least first multipurpose channel. 21. The apparatus according to claim 19 said at least one flow controlling element is disposed adjacent said at least one assay station. 22. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a chamber for introduction of flow-promoting fluid. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein at least one of said chamber or an inlet is in communication with a mixing chamber for mixing said flow-promoting fluid with said sample fluid. 24. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said at least one assay station comprises at least one component of an assay reaction pre-loaded therein. 25. The apparatus according to claim 24 wherein said least one component of said assay reaction at said at least one assay station provides at least one of detectable qualitative or quantitative data. 26. The apparatus of claim 25 further comprising beads having said at least one component of said assay reaction. 27. The apparatus according to claim 24 wherein said at least one component of said assay reaction is secured to said at least one assay station. 28. The apparatus according to claim 1 further comprising an absorbent in communication with a terminal portion of at least one of said at least first and second multipurpose channels. 29. The apparatus according to claim 28 wherein said absorbent is removeably attached to the terminal portion of said at least first and second multipurpose channels. 30. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein said at least one assay station is further comprised of flow promoting structures. 31. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein exposed portions of the said at least first second multipurpose channels are sealed with a solidifiable sealant adhesively, mechanically, electrically, or magnetically after the first and second multipurpose channels are filled with a sample fluid and/or an isolation medium. 32. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said flow of said isolation medium is by virtue of said at least one surface characteristic of said at least one first multipurpose channel and said at least one surface characteristic of said at least one second multipurpose channel. 33. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said sample fluid inlet serves as an isolation medium outlet to enable the isolation medium to flow out of said first multipurpose channels. 34. A method for conducting reactions on the apparatus of claim 1 comprising; obtaining a sample fluid; introducing a sample fluid to the at least one sample inlet; filling said at least one assay station via said at least one multipurpose channel with said sample fluid; allowing isolation medium from said at least one isolation medium inlet to flow into at least said first multipurpose channel; and running at least one reaction at said at least one assay station, said reaction providing at least one of qualitative or quantitative data relating to said sample fluid. 35. The method according to claim 34 further comprising running said at least one reaction under temperature control. 36. The method according to claim 34 further comprising the step of obtaining said sample fluid from a test sample. 37. The method according to claim 36 further comprising the step of subjecting said test sample to at least one preparative operation. 38. The method according to claim 37 further comprising performing said at least one preparative operation separately from said substrate. 39. The method according to claim 37 further comprising performing said at least one preparative operation at least one of upon or within said substrate. 40. The method according to claim 37 wherein said at least one preparative operation provides nucleic acids susceptible for use in said at least one reaction. 41. The method according to claim 37 wherein the step of obtaining said sample fluid includes at least one preparative operation in a sample preparation chamber, comprising at least one of exposing said test sample to a lysing buffer, elution buffer and a washing buffer, in order to obtain said sample fluid. 42. The method according to claim 41 further comprising adding a flow promoting fluid to said sample fluid. 43. The method according to claim 41 wherein said at least one preparation operation is conducted upon said substrate, further comprising the step of agitating said substrate in order to promote the entry of nucleic acids, contained in a nucleic acid containing test sample, to enter into said sample fluid. 44. The method of claim 43 wherein said step of agitating said substrate is performed by agitating said substrate at the resonant frequency of at least one of said substrate and the sample fluid contained in said sample preparation chamber. 45. The method of claim 43 wherein said agitating step is performed by agitating electro-magnetically magnetic beads in said sample preparation chamber. 46. The method of claim 43 further comprising heating said elution buffer contained in said filtration chamber to generate a thermal-gradient induced convection flow, and causing more nucleic acid molecules to enter into solution. 47. The method of claim 46 further comprising a step of adding surfactant to said elution buffer contained in a said sample preparation chamber. 48. The method of claim 36 wherein said test sample is at least one of homogenized, digested and filtered before injection into said sample introduction inlet. 49. The method according to claim 34 wherein said at least one of qualitative or quantitative data provides at least one of a colorimetric, flurometric or luminescent result. 50. The method of claim 34 further comprising the step of disposing at least one assay reaction component into said at least one assay station. 51. The method according to claim 34 wherein said step of running said at least one reaction comprises nucleic acid amplification. 52. The method according to claim 51 further comprising the step of exposing said at least one assay station to irradiation. 53. The method of claim 34 further comprising obtaining said at least one of qualitative or quantitative data utilizing fluorescence. 54. The method according to claim 53 wherein said fluorescence is provided by at least one of binding of a fluorophore or hybridization of fluorophore containing probe. 55. The method according to claim 34 wherein said qualitative or quantitative data is obtained via probe labeled with at least one of a fluorophore, an enzyme or component of a binding complex. 56. The method according to claim 55 further comprising introducing sequentially said isolation medium into said at least first and second multipurpose channels. 57. The method according to claim 34 further comprising the step of displacing said sample fluid via isolation medium. 58. The method according to claim 57 wherein said isolation medium is first introduced into said at least first multipurpose channel followed by introduction into said at least second multipurpose channel. 59. The method according to claims 56 or 58 wherein said introduction of isolation medium provides the purging or air from said at least second multipurpose channel and the purging of said sample fluid from said at least first multipurpose channel, resulting in the isolation of said at least one assay station containing said sample fluid. 60. The method according to claim 34 further comprising the step of at least of solidifying, curing and polymerizing said isolation medium. 61. The method according to claim 34 wherein exposed portions of the said at least first and second multipurpose channels are sealed with a solid from ambient atmosphere adhesively, mechanically, or magnetically after the first and second multipurpose channels are filled with sample fluid and/or isolation medium. 62. The method according to claim 34 further comprising heating said fluid sample prior to filling said at least one assay station. 