Certain embodiments provide a method for crystallizing a GPCR. The method may employ a fusion protein comprising: a) a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), where the first portion comprises the TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of the GPCR; b) a stable, folded protein insertion; and c) a second portion of the GPCR, where the second portion comprises the TM6 and TM7 regions of the GPCR.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for crystallizing a GPCR, comprising: a) isolating a GPCR fusion protein comprising, from N-terminus to C-terminus: i. a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4 and TM5 regions of said GPCR; ii. a domain comprising the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; and iii. a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises TM6 and TM7 regions of said GPCR, to produce an isolated GPCR fusion protein; and b) crystallizing said isolated GPCR fusion protein, thereby producing said crystal. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein said crystallizing is done in a lipid environment. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said crystallizing is done by lipid cubidic phase crystallization. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said crystallizing is done by bicelle crystallization. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein said method comprises combining said isolated GPCR fusion protein with a ligand prior to said crystallizing. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 95% identity to a wild-type lysozyme. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the amino acid sequence of T4 lysozyme. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a naturally occurring GPCR. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein said first and second portions of said GPCR comprise the amino acid sequence of a non-naturally occurring GPCR. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the amino acid sequence of said first and second portions of said GPCR are least 80% identical to amino acid sequences of a wild type GPCR. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said a GPCR is selected from the group consisting of: a receptor for a biogenic amine, a dopamine receptor, a seratonin receptor, an adrenergic receptor, a.beta.2-adrenergic receptor, a melanocortin receptor subtype 4, a ghrelin receptor, a metabotropic glutamate receptor and a chemokine receptor. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein said domain is in the range of from 100 to 200 amino acids in length. 14. A method for producing a crystal comprising: a) isolating a polypeptide comprising, from N-terminus to C-terminus: i. a first portion of a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), wherein said first portion comprises the amino acid sequence that is N-terminal to the IC3 loop of said GPCR; ii. a domain comprising the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme; and iii. a second portion of said GPCR, wherein said second portion comprises the amino acid sequence that is C-terminal to the IC3 loop of said GPCR, to produce an isolated polypeptide; and b) crystallizing said isolated polypeptide, thereby producing said crystal. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein said domain spaces the C-terminal end of the first portion of said GPCR and the N-terminal end of the second portion of said GPCR so that the closest alpha carbon atoms at said C-terminal end and said N-terminal end are spaced by a distance of in the range of 6 .ANG. to 16 .ANG.. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the amino acid sequence of said first and second portions of said GPCR are least 80% identical to amino acid sequences of a wild type GPCR. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein said domain comprises an amino acid sequence having at least 80% identity to the amino acid sequence of a wild-type lysozyme. 18. A method for producing a crystal comprising: a) isolating a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) comprising an IC3 loop containing a substitution that comprises the amino acid sequence of a lysozyme to produce an isolated GPCR; and b) crystallizing said isolated GPCR, thereby producing said crystal. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein said crystallizing is done by lipid cubidic phase crystallization. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein said crystallizing is done by bicelle crystallization. 