The present invention relates to transducers, their use and fabrication. The transducers convert between mechanical and electrical energy. Some transducers of the present invention include a pre-strained polymer. The pre-strain improves the conversion between electrical and mechanical energy. The present invention also relates to devices including an electroactive polymer to convert between electrical and mechanical energy. The present invention further relates to compliant electrodes that conform to the shape of a polymer included in a transducer. The present invention provides methods for fabricating electromechanical devices including one or more electroactive polymers.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of converting mechanical energy to electrical energy using an electroactive polymer transducer that includes an electroactive polymer and two electrodes, the method comprising: mechanically deflecting the electroactive polymer transducer to have a larger area between the electrodes than an area between the electrodes before the deflection; applying a voltage difference between the two electrodes, wherein the voltage difference is not large enough to cause the electroactive polymer to mechanically deflect; mechanically contracting the electroactive polymer transducer to have a smaller area between the electrodes than the area between the electrodes when the voltage difference was applied; and removing electrical energy using the two electrodes. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein electrostatic forces, resulting from the voltage difference applied between the two electrodes, are insufficient to balance elastic restoring forces of the deflection. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the area between the electrodes before the mechanical deflection occurs in a resting position of the transducer that has no external electrical or mechanical input applied to the polymer. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the resting position includes pre-strain in the polymer. 5. The method of claim 4 wherein the polymer is pre-strained by a factor in the range of about 1.5 to about 50 times an original area of the polymer prior to the pre-strain. 6. The method of claim 4 wherein the polymer comprises pre-strain in a first direction that improves energy conversion in a second direction. 7. The method of claim 1 wherein the contraction separates the electrodes and raises electrical energy of the voltage difference on the electrodes. 8. The method of claim 1 wherein a like charge within each electrode compresses during the contraction, which raises electrical energy of the charge. 9. The method of claim 1 wherein the electrical energy is removed using an electronic circuit in electrical communication with the electrodes. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the electrical energy is removed from the electrodes when the electroactive polymer transducer has fully contracted. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein electrical energy is removed from the electrodes during contraction of the electroactive polymer transducer. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the polymer is capable of a maximum linear strain of at least about 50 percent. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the mechanical contraction at least partially results from elastic return of the electroactive polymer. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the contraction is a contraction in one direction of a plane of the electroactive polymer. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the electroactive polymer has a substantially constant thickness before deflection and the deflection comprises a decrease in the substantially constant thickness. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the electroactive polymer has an elastic modulus at most about 100 MPa. 17. A method of converting mechanical energy to electrical energy using an electroactive polymer transducer that includes an electroactive polymer and two electrodes on opposite surfaces of the polymer, the method comprising: mechanically stretching the electroactive polymer transducer to have a larger area between the electrodes than an area between the electrodes before the stretch; applying a voltage difference between the two electrodes while the polymer is stretched; mechanically contracting the electroactive polymer transducer to have a smaller area between the electrodes than the area between the electrodes when the voltage difference was applied; and removing electrical energy using the two electrodes. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein electrostatic forces, resulting from the voltage difference applied between the two electrodes, are insufficient to balance elastic restoring forces of the stretch. 19. The method of claim 18 wherein a like charge within each electrode compresses during the contraction, which raises electrical energy of the charge. 20. A method of converting mechanical energy to electrical energy using an electroactive polymer transducer that includes an electroactive polymer and two electrodes, the method comprising: mechanically deflecting the electroactive polymer transducer to have a larger area between the electrodes than an area between the electrodes before the deflection; applying a voltage difference between the two electrodes after the deflection; mechanically contracting the electroactive polymer transducer from the larger area to a smaller area between the electrodes than the area between the electrodes when the voltage difference was applied; and removing electrical energy using the two electrodes gained as a result of the contraction to the smaller area. 