Use of calibrant in extraction phase is described for quantification of components of interest in samples in laboratory application as well as in on-site monitoring. This approach is particularly useful for in-vivo investigation of living systems.
Claims I claim: 1. A solid phase microextraction method of determining the concentration of a component in a sample, said method comprising adding a calibrant to an extraction phase prior to contact of said extraction phase with said sample, making said contact between said extraction phase and said sample for a predetermined extraction time, terminating said contact and determining said concentration of said component using amounts of said calibrant lost from said extraction phase and said component gained in said extraction phase after said contact. 2. The method of claim 1, which includes placement of said extraction phase in a solvent located in a well of a multiwell plate after said contact has been terminated for desorption of said calibrant and said component from said extraction phase followed by said determination of said amounts. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein said predetermined extraction time is equal to or longer than the time required to reach equilibrium between said extraction phase and said sample with respect to said component. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein said predetermined extraction time is shorter than the time required to reach equilibrium between said extraction phase and said sample with respect to said component. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the volume of said extraction phase is less than one milliliter. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein said extraction phase is a polymer. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein said extraction phase is in a form of a rod, flat thin membrane or coating. 8. The method of claim 7, wherein said extraction phase is attached to an external surface of a solid fiber. 9. The method of claim 7, wherein said extraction phase is located inside a tube. 10. The method of claim 1, including an additional step of placing said extraction phase in an airtight sealing device prior to or after making said contact with said sample. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein said calibrant is fully retained in said extraction phase during said contact of said extraction phase with said sample. 12. The method of claim 1, wherein said calibrant is partially released from said extraction phase during said contact of said extraction phase with said sample. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein said method is automated and said method includes the step of adding said calibrant to said extraction phase prior to said contact of said extraction phase with said sample. 14. The method of claim 1, wherein said calibrant is an isotopically labeled analogue of said component. 