A closed loop brain-machine interface is disclosed. The closed loop brain-machine interface translates one or more neural signals into a movement, or a series of movements, performed by a machine. The close-loop brain-machine interface also provides sensory feedback to the subject. Methods of employing the closed loop brain-machine interface are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A real time closed loop brain-machine interface for restoring voluntary motor control and sensory feedback to a subject that has lost a degree of voluntary motor control and sensory feedback comprising: (a) an implantable microwire electrode array configured to be implantable into the subject's brain and adapted to acquire one or more brain-derived neural signals directly from the subject's brain; (b) an implantable neurochip adapted to communicate with the implantable microwire array and to filter and amplify the one or more neural signals; (c) a motor command extraction microchip adapted to communicate with the implantable neurochip and embodying one or more linear motor command extraction algorithms, the microchip and the algorithms adapted to extract motor commands from the brain-derived neural signals; (d) an actuator adapted to communicate with the motor command extraction microchip and to move in response to the motor commands and to acquire sensory feedback information during and subsequent to a movement; (e) a sensory feedback microchip embodying one or more sensory feed back information interpretation algorithms adapted to communicate with the actuator, the sensory feedback microchip adapted to form interpreted sensory feedback information; (f) a structure adapted to communicate with the sensory feedback microchip and to wirelessly deliver interpreted sensory feedback information via electrical signals directly to the subject's brain through the implantable microwire electrode; and (g) one or more power sources adapted to provide power, as necessary, to one or more of the group comprising: the implantable neurochip; the motor command extraction microchip; the actuator; the sensory feedback microchip; and the structure adapted to relay interpreted sensory feedback information to the subject. 2. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the microwire electrode array comprises TEFLON.RTM. coated stainless steel microwires. 3. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the one or more motor command extraction algorithms comprise a linear model. 4. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the one or more motor command extraction algorithms comprise an artificial neural network. 5. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the motor command extraction microchip is implantable. 6. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the communication between the implantable neurochip and the motor command extraction microchip is wireless. 7. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the actuator comprises a prosthetic limb. 8. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the actuator comprises a device adapted to provide electrical stimulation of one or more muscles. 9. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the communication between the actuator and the motor command extraction microchip is wireless. 10. The real time closed loop brain-machine interface of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensory feedback interpretation algorithms is selected from the group consisting of linear and ANN algorithms. 11. A method of controlling an actuator adapted to provide sensory feedback to a subject by neural signals, the method comprising: (a) collecting a neural signal directly from the brain of a subject through the implantable electrode implanted in the subject's brain; (b) processing the neural signal to form a processed neural signal; (c) extracting a motor command from the processed neural signal to form an extracted motor command, wherein the extracting employs a linear model; (e) transmitting the extracted motor command to an actuator, whereby the actuator effects a movement; (f) acquiring sensory feedback information from the actuator; (g) interpreting the sensory feedback information to form interpreted sensory feedback information; and (h) relaying the interpreted sensory feedback information wirelessly via electrical signals directly to the subject's brain through the implantable electrode. 12. The method of claim 11, wherein the neural signal is an electrical signal. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the extracting comprises applying an artificial neural network to the processed neural signals. 14. The method of claim 11, wherein the neural signal is acquired via plurality of electrodes comprising one or more microwires. 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the microwires comprise a material selected from the group consisting of stainless steel, platinum and tungsten. 16. The method of claim 14, wherein the diameter of the one or more microwires is about 50 .mu.m. 17. The method of claim 14, wherein the microwires are TEFLON.RTM. coated. 18. The method of claim 14, wherein the one or more microwires are oriented in a definite spatial relationship relative to one another to thereby form a microwire array. 19. The method of claim 18, wherein the microwires comprise a material selected from the group consisting of stainless steel, platinum and tungsten. 20. The method of claim 18, wherein the diameter of the one or more microwires is about 25 to 50 .mu.m. 21. The method of claim 18, wherein the microwires are TEFLON.RTM. coated. 22. The method of claim 18, wherein the microwire array comprises about 16 to 128 microwires. 23. The method of claim 14, wherein the one or more microwires are oriented in a definite spatial relationship relative to one another to thereby form a microwire bundle. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the microwires comprise a material selected from the group consisting of stainless steel, platinum and tungsten. 25. The method of claim 23, wherein the diameter of the one or more microwires is about 25 to 50 .mu.m. 26. The method of claim 23, wherein the microwires are TEFLON.RTM. coated. 27. The method of claim 23, wherein the microwires have different lengths. 28. The method of claim 23, wherein the difference in length between a first wire tip and a second wire tip is about 150 to 300 .mu.m. 29. The method of claim 11, wherein the collecting is performed in real time. 30. The method of claim 11, wherein the processing comprises: (a) amplifying the one or more neural signals to form amplified neural signals; (b) filtering the amplified neural signals to form filtered neural signals; and (c) performing a spike detection analysis on the filtered neural signals. 31. The method of claim 11, wherein the processing is performed in real time. 32. The method of claim 11, wherein the extracting comprises applying a linear model to the processed neural signals. 33. The method of claim 11, wherein the extracting is performed in real time. 34. The method of claim 11, wherein the transmitting comprises conveying the extracted motor commands wirelessly. 35. The method of claim 11 wherein the transmitting comprises conveying the extracted motor commands over a cable. 36. The method of claim 11, wherein the transmitting is performed in real time. 37. The method of claim 11, wherein the sensory information is selected from the group consisting of tactile information, temperature information and visual information. 38. The method of claim 11, wherein the sensory feedback information is acquired in real time. 39. A method of imparting voluntary motor control and sensory feedback to a subject that has lost a degree of voluntary motor control and sensory feedback, the method comprising: (a) implanting a neural signal acquisition apparatus in the subject's brain; (b) fitting the subject with an actuator adapted to respond to neural signals with movement and to acquire sensory feedback; (c) collecting one or more neural signals directly from the brain of the subject; (d) extracting one or more motor commands from the acquired neural signals to form extracted motor commands, wherein the extracting employs a linear model; (e) transmitting the extracted motor commands to the actuator; (f) effecting a movement corresponding to the extracted motor commands; (g) acquiring sensory feedback information via the actuator; (h) interpreting the sensory feedback information to form interpreted sensory feedback information; and (i) relaying the interpreted sensory feedback information wirelessly via electrical signals directly to the subject's brain through the neural signal acquisition apparatus, whereby voluntary motor control and sensory feedback is imparted to a subject that has lost a degree of voluntary motor control and sensory feedback. 40. The method of claim 39, wherein the neural signal acquisition apparatus comprises: (a) a plurality of electrodes; and (b) a neurochip adapted to amplify and filter neural signals the neurochip adapted to communicate with the plurality of electrodes. 41. The method of claim 40, wherein the plurality of electrodes comprises one or more microwire electrode arrays. 42. The method of claim 40, wherein the plurality of electrodes comprises one or more microwire bundles. 43. The method of claim 39, wherein the neural signals comprise electrical signals. 44. The method of claim 39, wherein the collecting is performed in real time. 45. The method of claim 39, wherein the actuator comprises a prosthetic limb. 46. The method of claim 39, wherein the actuator comprises a device adapted to provide electrical stimulation of one or more muscles. 47. The method of claim 39, wherein the fitting comprises interfacing the actuator with the central nervous system of the subject. 48. The method of claim 39, wherein the extracting comprises passing the one or more acquired neural signals through a linear model. 49. The method of claim 39, wherein the extracting comprises passing the one or more acquired neural signals through an artificial neural network. 50. The method of claim 39, wherein the transmitting comprises conveying the extracted motor commands wirelessly. 51. The method of claim 39, wherein the transmitting comprises conveying the extracted motor commands over a cable. 52. The method of claim 39, wherein the effected movement comprises a motion in three-dimensions. 53. The method of claim 39, wherein the movement effecting is performed in real time. 54. The method of claim 39, wherein the sensory feedback information comprises information selected from the group consisting of tactile information, temperature information and visual information. 55. The method of claim 39, wherein the acquiring is performed by one or more sensor mechanisms disposed on the actuator. 56. The method of claim 55, wherein the one or more sensor mechanisms comprise one or more devices adapted to provide one or more of visual and tactile feedback information. 57. The method of claim 39, wherein the interpreting comprises performing one of a linear algorithm and an ANN algorithm. 58. The method of claim 39, wherein the interpreting is performed by one or more algorithms embodied on an implanted microchip. 59. The method of claim 39, wherein the interpreting is performed by one or more algorithms embodied on the actuator. 60. The method of claim 39, wherein the interpreting is performed in real time. 61. The method of claim 39, wherein the relaying is performed in real time. 62. The method of claim 39, wherein the steps (a) through (i) are performed in real time. 