A computer-implemented method for modeling a target system includes defining a cloned constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) that characterizes the target system in terms of a set of variables and constraints applicable to the variables. The cloned CSP includes a non-predetermined number of duplicate sub-problems corresponding to instances of a repeating feature of the target system. The variables are partitioned so as to define an abstract CSP containing a subset of the variables relating to the duplicate sub-problems. The abstract CSP is solved to generate an abstract solution indicating the number of duplicate sub-problems to use in the cloned CSP. A concrete solution to the cloned CSP is found using the abstract solution.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for controlling a target computerized system, comprising: defining a cloned constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) that characterizes the target computerized system in terms of a set of variables relevant to the computerized system and constraints applicable to the variables, the cloned CSP comprising a non-predetermined number of duplicate sub-problems corresponding to instances of a repeating feature of the target system; partitioning the variables so as to define an abstract CSP containing a subset of the variables relating to the duplicate sub-problems; solving the abstract CSP to generate an abstract solution indicating the number of duplicate sub-problems to use in the cloned CSP; finding a concrete solution to the cloned CSP using the abstract solution; and applying a control input to the target computerized system based on the concrete solution. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein defining the cloned CSP comprises adding to the set a vector size variable that indicates the number of duplicate sub-problems, and adding at least one constraint on the vector size variable, and wherein solving the abstract CSP comprises processing the at least one constraint in order to assign a value to the vector size variable. 3. The method according to claim 2, wherein defining the cloned CSP comprises adding to the set Boolean existence variables that indicate an activity status of each of at least some of the duplicate sub-problems, and wherein adding the at least one constraint comprises defining constraints between the vector size variable and the existence variables. 4. The method according to claim 2, wherein partitioning the variables comprises adding to the subset one or more of the variables that are selected from at least one of a first group of the variables consisting of the variables that are connected by constraints to the vector size variable and a second group of the variables that a human user indicates are likely to affect the vector size variable. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein defining the cloned CSP comprises defining a vector constraint over the duplicate sub-problems, and wherein solving the abstract CSP comprises applying the vector constraint to one or more of the variables in at least one of the duplicate sub-problems. 6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the duplicate sub-problems are arranged in a sequential order, and the vector constraint depends on the sequential order, and wherein applying the vector constraint comprises connecting the vector constraint to the one or more of the variables responsively to the sequential order. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the cloned CSP comprises activity constraints, and wherein solving the abstract CSP comprises resolving the activity constraints so that no activity constraints remain to be resolved in finding the concrete solution. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein solving the abstract CSP comprises finding multiple abstract solutions with different numbers of the duplicate sub-problems, and wherein finding the concrete solution comprises finding multiple concrete solutions with the different numbers of the duplicate sub-problems. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the target system comprises an electronic system comprising a processor, and wherein finding the concrete solution comprises determining parameters of a command to be input to the processor. 10. A computer-implemented method for automatic test generation, comprising: defining a cloned constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) that characterizes an electronic system comprising a processor in terms of a set of variables relevant to the electronic system and constraints applicable to the variables, the cloned CSP comprising a non-predetermined number of duplicate sub-problems corresponding to instances of a repeating task to be carried out by the processor; partitioning the variables so as to define an abstract CSP containing a subset of the variables relating to the duplicate sub-problems; solving the abstract CSP to generate an abstract solution indicating the number of duplicate sub-problems to use in the cloned CSP; finding a concrete solution to the cloned CSP using the abstract solution so as to determine parameters of a command that will cause the processor to perform the indicated number of repetitions of the task; and applying the command to test a design of the electronic system. 11. The method according to claim 10, wherein finding the concrete solution comprises generating the indicated number of descriptors in a linked list for input to the processor. 12. Apparatus for controlling a target computerized system, comprising: an input interface, which is arranged to receive a definition of a cloned constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) that characterizes the target computerized system in terms of a set of variables relevant to the computerized system and constraints applicable to the variables, the cloned CSP comprising a non-predetermined number of duplicate sub-problems corresponding to instances of a repeating feature of the target system; and a CSP processor, which is arranged to partition the variables so as to define an abstract CSP containing a subset of the variables relating to the duplicate sub-problems, to solve the abstract CSP to generate an abstract solution indicating the number of duplicate sub-problems to use in the cloned CSP, and to find a concrete solution to the cloned CSP using the abstract solution, and to generate a control input for application to the target computerized system based on the concrete solution. 13. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the CSP processor is arranged to add to the set of variables a vector size variable that indicates the number of duplicate sub-problems, and to add at least one constraint on the vector size variable, and to process the at least one constraint while solving the abstract CSP in order to assign a value to the vector size variable. 14. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the cloned CSP comprises a vector constraint over the duplicate sub-problems, and wherein the CSP processor is arranged to solve the abstract CSP comprises by applying the vector constraint to one or more of the variables in at least one of the duplicate sub-problems. 15. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the cloned CSP comprises activity constraints, and wherein the CSP processor is arranged to resolve the activity constraints while solving the abstract CSP comprises so that no activity constraints remain to be resolved in finding the concrete solution. 16. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the CSP processor is arranged to find multiple abstract solutions with different numbers of the duplicate sub-problems, and to find multiple concrete solutions using the abstract solutions with the different numbers of the duplicate sub-problems. 17. A computer software product for controlling a target computerized system, the product comprising a computer-readable medium in which program instructions are stored, which instructions, when read by a computer, cause the computer to receive a definition of a cloned constraint satisfaction problem (CSP) that characterizes the target computerized system in terms of a set of variables relevant to the computerized system and constraints applicable to the variables, the cloned CSP comprising a non-predetermined number of duplicate sub-problems corresponding to instances of a repeating feature of the target system, and to partition the variables so as to define an abstract CSP containing a subset of the variables relating to the duplicate sub-problems, to solve the abstract CSP to generate an abstract solution indicating the number of duplicate sub-problems to use in the cloned CSP, and to find a concrete solution to the cloned CSP using the abstract solution, and to generate a control input for application to the target computerized system based on the concrete solution. 18. The product according to claim 17, wherein the instructions cause the computer to add to the set of variables a vector size variable that indicates the number of duplicate sub-problems, and to add at least one constraint on the vector size variable, and to process the at least one constraint while solving the abstract CSP in order to assign a value to the vector size variable. 19. The product according to claim 17, wherein the cloned CSP comprises a vector constraint over the duplicate sub-problems, and wherein the instructions cause the computer to solve the abstract CSP comprises by applying the vector constraint to one or more of the variables in at least one of the duplicate sub-problems. 20. The product according to claim 17, wherein the cloned CSP comprises activity constraints, and wherein the instructions cause the computer to resolve the activity constraints while solving the abstract CSP comprises so that no activity constraints remain to be resolved in finding the concrete solution. 