A cautery hook includes a proximal portion, a shank portion, and a distal hook portion. The shank portion is connected to the proximal portion at a bent knee protruding generally on a front side of the cautery hook. The distal hook portion is connected to the shank portion at an ankle protruding generally on a rear side of the cautery hook opposite from the front side of the cautery hook. The distal hook portion includes a distal hook tip generally on the front side of the cautery hook. The bent knee, ankle, and distal hook tip are the three most likely locations of contact between the cautery hook and a cannula sleeve when the cautery hook is passed through the cannular sleeve between an internal surgical site and the outside. Each contact tends to self-align the cautery hook to allow the hook to pass through the cannula sleeve without getting stuck or damaged.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A surgical instrument, comprising: a shaft comprising a distal end; a generally linear proximal portion comprising a proximal end and a distal end, wherein the proximal end of the of the proximal portion is coupled to the distal end of the shaft via a wrist mechanism having at least one degree of freedom; a generally linear shank portion comprising a proximal end and a distal end, wherein the proximal end of the shank portion is coupled to the distal end of the proximal portion, wherein the shank portion angles away from a front side of the instrument by a knee angle, and wherein the knee angle allows the shank portion to self align and slide without catching into a cannula as the shaft is being withdrawn through the cannula; and a distal hook portion comprising a proximal end and a tip, wherein the proximal end of the distal hook portion is coupled to the distal end of the shank portion at an ankle, wherein the distal hook portion angles towards the front side of the instrument by an ankle angle, wherein the ankle angle allows the tip to self-align and slide without catching into the cannula as the shaft is being withdrawn through the cannula, and wherein the distal hook portion is configured to receive cauterization energy. 2. The surgical instrument according to claim 1, wherein the shaft comprises a proximal end that is coupled to a housing arranged to releasably couple the instrument to a robot arm. 3. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the proximal portion is coupled to the shaft at a wrist mechanism comprising at least two degrees of freedom. 4. The surgical instrument of claim 3, wherein the shaft comprises a proximal end that is coupled to a housing arranged to releasably couple the instrument to a robot arm. 5. The surgical instrument of claim 1, further comprising an insulator covering at least part of the proximal portion. 6. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the proximal portion, the shank portion, and the distal hook portion are substantially coplanar. 7. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein a cross section of the distal hook portion comprises a substantially round shape. 8. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein a cross section of the distal hook portion comprises a substantially rectangular shape. 9. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the distal hook portion comprises a generally linear shape. 10. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the distal hook portion comprises an insulating layer sandwiched between two electrode layers. 11. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the shaft comprises a proximal end that is coupled to a housing arranged to releasably couple the instrument to a robot arm. 12. The surgical instrument of claim 1, wherein the tip generally coincides with a longitudinal axis extending from the proximal portion. 