A method and system are disclosed for transmitting data among robots and a controller computer system within an automated robotic library. A robotic library communication protocol is described for communicating among the robotic mechanisms and the controller computer system. The robotic library communication protocol defines multiple fields for each packet including a preamble field that describes a predetermined preamble value that is equal to a particular value. Data is transmitted among the robotic mechanisms and the controller computer system utilizing the robotic library communication protocol. Each packet that conforms to the protocol includes only the preamble value in the preamble field. Power is provided to the robotic mechanisms utilizing a power signal. Data that has been encoded according to the protocol is transmitted to the robotic mechanisms using the power signal.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method in for transmitting data among robotic mechanisms and a controller computer system in an automated data storage library, said method comprising the steps of: providing a robotic library communication protocol for communicating among said robotic mechanisms and said controller computer system, said robotic library communication protocol defining a plurality of fields for each packet including a preamble field that describes a predetermined preamble value that is equal to a particular value; transmitting data among said robotic mechanisms and said controller computer system utilizing said robotic library communication protocol; and each packet that conforms to said protocol including only said preamble value in said preamble field. 2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: providing power to said robotic mechanisms utilizing a power signal; and transmitting said data using said power signal. 3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: providing power to said robotic mechanisms utilizing a power signal; transmitting said data using said power signal by modulating said data on top of said power signal to generate a modulated signal; transmitting said modulated signal to said robotic mechanisms; and said robotic mechanisms being powered by a power signal that is extracted from said modulated signal. 4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising the steps of: receiving said modulated signal at one of said robotic mechanisms; demodulating said modulated signal to produce a received data signal and received power; and powering said one of said robotic mechanisms utilizing said received power. 5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: said robotic library communication protocol including a destination address field for each packet for storing an address of an intended recipient for each packet, a source address field for each packet for storing an address of a sender of each packet, a type field for each packet for storing an indication of a type of each packet, a data field for storing user data, and an error checking field for each packet for storing an error checking character for each packet. 6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: receiving a message to be transmitted to a recipient robotic mechanism; encoding said message utilizing said protocol to produce a plurality of packets that conform to said protocol; and including only said preamble value in said preamble field of each one of said plurality of packets. 7. The method according to claim 6, further comprising the steps of: providing a power signal that is used to deliver power to said robotic mechanisms; converting said plurality of packets to an asynchronous data signal; and modulating said asynchronous data signal on top of said power signal. 8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising the steps of: delivering said power and said message to said recipient robotic mechanism utilizing said modulated signal. 9. The method according to claim 7, further comprising the steps of: converting said plurality of packets to a stream of bytes; and converting said stream of bytes to said asynchronous data signal using a start bit and two stop bits for each byte of said stream of bytes to delimit each byte of said stream of bytes from a next byte of said stream of bytes. 10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the steps of: receiving a data signal by one of said robotic mechanisms; determining whether said data signal includes a preamble that stores said predetermined preamble value that is equal to said particular value; in response to determining that said data signal includes a preamble that stores said predetermined preamble value that is equal to said particular value, decoding a remainder of said data signal utilizing said protocol; and in response to determining that said data signal does not include a preamble that stores said predetermined preamble value that is equal to said particular value, discarding said data signal without processing a remainder of said data signal. 11. A system for transmitting data among robotic mechanisms and a controller computer system in an automated data storage library, said system comprising: a robotic library communication protocol for communicating among said robotic mechanisms and said controller computer system, said robotic library communication protocol defining a plurality of fields for each packet including a preamble field that describes a predetermined preamble value that is equal to a particular value; data being transmitted among said robotic mechanisms and said controller computer system utilizing said robotic library communication protocol; and each packet that conforms to said protocol including only said preamble value in said preamble field. 12. The system according to claim 11, further comprising: a power signal for providing power to said robotic mechanisms; and said power signal for transmitting said data. 13. The system according to claim 11, further comprising: a power signal for providing power to said robotic mechanisms; said data being transmitted using said power signal by modulating said data on top of said power signal to generate a modulated signal; said modulated signal being transmitted to said robotic mechanisms; and said robotic mechanisms being powered by a power signal that is extracted from said modulated signal. 14. The system according to claim 13, further comprising: said modulated signal being received at one of said robotic mechanisms; said modulated signal being demodulated to produce a received data signal and received power; and said received power for powering said one of said robotic mechanisms. 15. The system according to claim 11, further comprising: said robotic library communication protocol including a destination address field for each packet for storing an address of an intended recipient for each packet, a source address field for each packet for storing an address of a sender of each packet, a type field for each packet for storing an indication of a type of each packet, a data field for storing user data, and an error checking field for each packet for storing an error checking character for each packet. 16. The system according to claim 11, further comprising: a message to be transmitted to a recipient robotic mechanism; said message being encoded utilizing said protocol to produce a plurality of packets that conform to said protocol; and only said preamble value being included in said preamble field of each one of said plurality of packets. 17. The system according to claim 16, further comprising: a power signal that is used to deliver power to said robotic mechanisms; said controller computer system including a CPU executing code for converting said plurality of packets to an asynchronous data signal; and a MODEM for modulating said asynchronous data signal on top of said power signal. 18. The system according to claim 17, further comprising: said power and said message being delivered to said recipient robotic mechanism utilizing said modulated signal. 19. The system according to claim 17, further comprising: said plurality of packets being converted to a stream of bytes; and said stream of bytes being converted to said asynchronous data signal using a start bit and two stop bits for each byte of said stream of bytes to delimit each byte of said stream of bytes from a next byte of said stream of bytes. 20. The system according to claim 11, further comprising: data signal being received by one of said robotic mechanisms; said one of said robotic mechanisms including a computer system executing code for determining whether said data signal includes a preamble that stores said predetermined preamble value that is equal to said particular value; in response to determining that said data signal includes a preamble that stores said predetermined preamble value that is equal to said particular value, said computer system executing code for decoding a remainder of said data signal utilizing said protocol; and in response to determining that said data signal does not include a preamble that stores said predetermined preamble value that is equal to said particular value, said computer system executing code for discarding said data signal without processing a remainder of said data signal. 