A sealing gasket-support combination includes a sealing gasket for mounting on a support on a motor vehicle door. The support includes at least one corner having a small radius of curvature. The gasket includes at least a flexible or semi-rigid fixing portion fixed to the support by an adhesive. The gasket also includes an elastically-deformable tubular portion for providing sealing. The elastically-deformable portion includes a non-deformed cross-section in a free state and a deformed cross-section in a deformed state that is due to the corner of the support, wherein once the gasket has been mounted on the support, the deformed cross-section occupies an area that is substantially within the area occupied by the non-deformed cross section.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A combination of a motor vehicle door and a sealing gasket mounted on a support of said door, the motor vehicle door being designed to close a vehicle bodywork zone, the support including at least one corner having a small radius of curvature, the gasket comprising at least a flexible or semi-rigid fixing portion fixed to the support by an adhesive and an elastically-deformable tubular portion for providing sealing, the elastically-deformable portion having a non-deformed cross-section in a free state and a deformed cross-section in a deformed state which is due to the mounting of the gasket on the at least one corner of the support, said deformed cross-section occupies an area which is substantially within that area occupied by said non-deformed cross-section, wherein said elastically-deformable portion of the gasket includes a base portion which is connected to said fixing portion at only at one end of said base portion. 2. The combination according to claim 1, in which the elastically-deformable portion of the gasket is substantially triangular in cross-section and has two lateral pillars united with each other by an arch and forming between the two lateral pillars, an angle of about 10.degree. to about 30.degree., said angle being defined using two straight lines passing substantially through the middles of the pillars at ths and at 4/5ths of the total height of the gasket. 3. The combination according to claim 2, wherein the angle is about 20.degree.. 4. The combination according to claim 2, wherein inner and outer top portions of the arch of the elastically-deformable portion are situated on two circles having centers that are spaced apart from each other by a distance of more than 0.7 mm. 5. The combination according to claim 1, wherein a height of said gasket change no more than 2.5 mm between said free state and said deformed state when said radius of curvature is less than or equal to 80 mm and said corner extends over an angle that is less than or equal to 80.degree.. 6. The combination according to claim 1, wherein the gasket includes an arch which facilitates positioning of the gasket on the support by a robot. 7. The combination according to claim 1, wherein the fixing portion includes bearing portions situated substantially on either side of the adhesive in order to limit deformation of the gasket. 8. The combination according to claim 1, in which the fixing portion of the gasket includes a reinforcement. 9. The combination according to claim 1, in which means are provided for weakening compressibility forces of said gasket. 10. The combination according to claim 9, in which said means are constituted by at least one weakened area in the elastically-deformable portion of the gasket. 11. The combination according to claim 1, in which the gasket is mounted directly on the support without being subjected to any thermoforming operation in said corner of the support. 12. The combination according to claim 1, in which the gasket is stored on a drum, on a pallet, or in a container. 13. The combination of claim 1, wherein said base portion extends substantially parallel to said fixing portion. 