An automated analyzer for performing multiple diagnostic assays simultaneously includes multiple stations, or modules, in which discrete aspects of the assay are performed on fluid samples contained in reaction receptacles. The analyzer includes stations for automatically preparing a specimen sample, incubating the sample at prescribed temperatures for prescribed periods, preforming an analyte isolation procedure, and ascertaining the presence of a target analyte. An automated receptacle transporting system moves the reaction receptacles from one station to the next. The analyzer further includes devices for carrying a plurality of specimen tubes and disposable pipette tips in a machine-accessible manner, a device for agitating containers of target capture reagents comprising suspensions of solid support material and for presenting the containers for machine access thereto, and a device for holding containers of reagents in a temperature controlled environment and presenting the containers for machine access thereto. A method for performing an automated diagnostic assay includes an automated process for isolating and amplifying a target analyte. The process is performed by automatically moving each of a plurality of reaction receptacles containing a solid support material and a fluid sample between stations for incubating the contents of the reaction receptacle and for separating the target analyte bound to the solid support from the fluid sample. An amplification reagent is added to the separated analyte after the analyte separation step and before a final incubation step.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An assembly comprising: a first ring assembly constructed and arranged to be rotatable about a first axis of rotation, said first ring assembly including an annular fluid container carrier portion having an inner periphery and an outer periphery between which said fluid container carrier portion is defined, said fluid container carrier portion being constructed and arranged to carry a plurality of fluid containers; a second ring assembly constructed and arranged to be rotatable independent of said first ring assembly about a second axis of rotation that is generally parallel to said first axis of rotation, said second ring assembly being positioned with respect to said first ring assembly so that at least a portion of an outer perimeter of said second ring assembly is disposed radially inwardly of said inner periphery of said fluid container carrier portion of said first ring assembly, said second ring assembly being constructed and arranged to carry a plurality of pipette tips thereon; and a rotary mixer comprising: a turning structure that is rotatable about a third axis of rotation that is generally parallel to said first and second axes of rotation; and a plurality of container holders carried on said turning structure, each of said container holders being disposed at a radially spaced distance from said third axis of rotation and being rotatable about a respective container holder axis of rotation that is generally parallel to said first, second, and third axes of rotation, said container holder axis of rotation being radially spaced from said third axis of rotation. 2. The assembly of claim 1, said fluid container carrier portion comprising: a raised inner wall; a raised outer wall, said raised outer wall being spaced radially outwardly from said raised inner wall, thereby defining an annular trough between said raised inner wall and said raised outer wall; and a plurality of raised divider walls extending radially between said raised inner wall and said raised outer wall, said divider walls being located at angularly spaced positions around said annular trough, thereby dividing said annular trough into a plurality of arcuate fluid container receiving wells. 3. The assembly of claim 2, said fluid container carrier portion comprising nine divider walls dividing said annular trough into nine fluid container receiving wells. 4. The assembly of claim 1, said first ring assembly further comprising rollers engaged with said inner periphery of said first ring assembly for rotationally supporting said first ring assembly. 5. The assembly of claim 4, wherein said rollers comprise V-groove rollers, and said first ring assembly includes a continuous V-ridge formed on said inner periphery, said V-groove rollers being engaged with said continuous V-ridge. 6. The assembly of claim 5, said first ring assembly comprising three V-groove rollers, wherein two of said three V-groove rollers are rotationally mounted on respective fixed shafts, and the third V-groove roller is mounted on a shaft that is radially movable with respect to said inner periphery of said first ring assembly, said third V-groove roller being spring biased radially outwardly into engagement with said inner periphery of said first ring assembly. 7. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising: a motor; and a transmission belt operatively coupling said motor and said first ring assembly to provide powered rotation of said first ring assembly. 8. The assembly of claim 7, wherein said transmission belt is continuous and extends around said outer periphery of said first ring assembly. 9. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a specimen cover disposed in an elevated position above a segment of said annular fluid container carrier portion, said specimen cover including one or more openings formed therein providing access through said specimen cover to one or more fluid containers carried in said annular fluid container carrier portion below said openings. 10. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising at least one specimen tube tray carried in said fluid container carrier portion, said specimen tube tray being constructed and arranged to hold a plurality of specimen tubes. 11. The assembly of claim 10, comprising nine specimen tube trays, each of said trays having an arcuate shape and subtending an arc of about 40 degrees. 12. The assembly of claim 10, said specimen tube tray comprising: a floor; a central wall secured in a fixed position with respect to said floor; and two end walls disposed at opposite ends of said central wall. 13. The assembly of claim 12, said specimen tube tray further comprising a plurality of divider walls spaced along opposite sides of said central wall, each adjacent pair of said divider walls defining a specimen tube receiving area therebetween. 14. The assembly of claim 13, wherein each of said divider walls includes a base portion attached to said central wall and extending away from said central wall and a retainer portion including extents projecting laterally from either side of said base portion, wherein the retainer portions of adjacent pairs of divider walls project toward each other and cooperate to retain a specimen tube in said specimen tube receiving area. 15. The assembly of claim 14, further comprising a plurality of spring elements, each of said spring elements being carried on said central wall and disposed between adjacent ones of said divider walls, each said spring element being constructed and arranged to urge a specimen tube carried in said specimen tube receiving area away from said central wall and into contact with the retainer portions of the adjacent divider walls. 16. The assembly of claim 14, wherein said divider walls have a Y-shape. 17. The assembly of claim 13, said specimen tube tray further including location-designating indicia formed adjacent said specimen tube receiving areas. 18. The assembly of claim 14, wherein said divider walls are constructed and arranged such that there is a gap provided between the retainer portions of adjacent ones of said divider walls to permit information presented on a specimen tube carried in said specimen tube receiving area to be viewed through said gap. 19. The assembly of claim 18, said specimen tube tray further including information provided on said central wall to be viewable through said gap in the absence of a specimen tube carried in said specimen tube receiving area. 20. The assembly of claim 1, wherein said second ring assembly comprises: a top panel; a bottom ring; and risers disposed between and connected to said top panel and said bottom ring for holding said top panel and said bottom ring in a fixed, spaced-apart arrangement relative to each other, wherein the pipette tips carried by said second ring assembly extend through openings formed in said top panel and are supported on said top panel and are suspended between said top panel and said bottom ring. 21. The assembly of claim 20, wherein said top panel includes a plurality of circumferentially-spaced, radially protruding sections and a central opening defining a circular inner periphery. 22. The assembly of claim 21, wherein said top panel further includes an opening formed in each of the radially protruding sections, each said opening being constructed and arranged to receive and removably hold a container of pipette tips. 23. The assembly of claim 22, further including registration features disposed adjacent each of said openings for co-acting with cooperating features formed on a container of pipette tips to properly register the container with the opening. 24. The assembly of claim 23, wherein each said opening is rectangular, and said registration features comprise at least one slot formed adjacent at least one side of said rectangular opening. 25. The assembly of claim 20, said second ring assemebly further comprising rollers engaged with an inner periphery of said bottom ring for rotationally supporting said second ring assembly. 26. The assembly of claim 25, wherein said rollers comprise V-groove rollers, and said second ring assembly includes a continuous V-ridge formed on said inner periphery of said bottom ring, said V-groove rollers being engaged with said continuous V-ridge. 27. The assembly of claim 26, said second ring assembly comprising three V-groove rollers, wherein two of said three V-groove rollers are rotationally mounted on respective fixed shafts, and the third V-groove roller is mounted on a shaft that is radially movable with respect to said inner periphery of said bottom ring of said second ring assembly, said third V-groove roller being spring biased radially outwardly into engagement with said inner periphery of said bottom ring of said second ring assembly. 28. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising a motor operatively coupled with said second ring assembly and constructed and arranged to cause powered rotation of said second ring assembly. 29. The assembly of claim 20, further comprising a motor, said motor including an output shaft and a spur gear mounted on said output shaft, said bottom ring of said second ring assembly including gear teeth formed on an outer perimeter thereof, wherein said spur gear is operatively engaged with said gear teeth to cause powered rotation of said second ring assembly. 30. The assembly of claim 1, further comprising an information scanning device disposed adjacent said first ring assembly and constructed and arranged to scan machine-readable information provided on a fluid container carried on said fluid container carrier portion. 31. The assembly of claim 2, further comprising at least one specimen tube tray carried in said fluid container carrier portion between consecutive divider walls, said specimen tube tray being constructed and arranged to hold a plurality of specimen tubes. 32. The assembly of claim 20, wherein said top panel includes a plurality of circumferentially-spaced, radially protruding sections and a central opening defining a circular inner periphery, an opening formed in each of the radially protruding sections, each said opening being constructed and arranged to receive and removably hold a container of pipette tips, and registration features disposed adjacent each of said openings for co-acting with cooperating features formed on a container of pipette tips to properly register the container with the opening, and wherein said fluid container carrier portion of said first ring assembly comprises: a raised inner wall; a raised outer wall, said raised outer wall being spaced radially outwardly from said raised inner wall, thereby defining an annular trough between said raised inner wall and said raised outer wall; and a plurality of raised divider walls extending radially between said raised inner wall and said raised outer wall, said divider walls being located at angularly spaced positions around said annular trough, thereby dividing said annular trough into a plurality of arcuate fluid container receiving wells. 33. The assembly of claim 2, wherein said second ring assembly comprises: a top panel; a bottom ring; and risers disposed between and connected to said top panel and said bottom ring for holding said top panel and said bottom ring in a fixed, spaced-apart arrangement relative to each other, wherein the pipette tips carried by said second ring assembly are supported on said top panel and are suspended between said top panel and said bottom ring. 34. The assembly of claim 20, further comprising: a first motor; a transmission belt operatively coupling said first motor and said first ring assembly to provide powered rotation of said first ring assembly; a second motor, said second motor including an output shaft and a spur gear mounted on said output shaft, said bottom ring of said second ring assembly including gear teeth formed on an outer perimeter thereof, wherein said spur gear is operatively engaged with said gear teeth to cause powered rotation of said second ring assembly. 35. The assembly of claim 20, wherein the axis of rotation of each container holder is spaced from the axis of the container holder. 