An automated drug dispensing system includes a cabinet adapted to store a variety of prepackaged pharmaceuticals in a plurality of bins for filling patient prescriptions. Each bin stores a particular variety of packaged multiple-dose pharmaceutical. Each variety of pharmaceutical is associated with a particular code. A controller receives request signals and in response generates dispense signals. Each bin includes a dispenser coupled to the controller for dispensing the packaged pharmaceuticals therefrom in response to a dispense signal sent from the controller. After a package is dispensed, a code reader determines the code of the dispensed package and verifies whether the code on the dispensed package matches the code of the requested package.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A pharmaceutical dispensing system, comprising: a pharmaceutical product dispenser at a first location; a control workstation at a second location; a control system operatively connected to the control workstation and the dispenser, the control system being adapted to control dispenser operation such that the dispenser dispenses a packaged pharmaceutical product associated with a prescription; a code reader operative to read a code associated with the packaged pharmaceutical product; and a video communication apparatus associated with the dispenser such that a person at the first location may consult with a pharmacist at the second location. 2. The system of claim 1 wherein the video communication apparatus comprises: first video communication apparatus associated with the dispenser; and second video communication apparatus associated with the control workstation, the video communication apparatus being operative to send and receive information therebetween. 3. The system of claim 2 wherein the first and second video communication apparatus each include: a video input device; a video display; an audio input device; and an audio output device. 4. The system of claim 2 further comprising: a first computer associated with the dispenser and the first video communication apparatus; and a second computer associated with the control workstation and second video communication apparatus. 5. The system of claim 4 wherein the first computer is operatively connected to the second computer, control system and dispenser to control the dispenser operation responsive to a signal from the second computer. 6. The system of claim 2 further comprising a scanner operatively connected to the control system, the scanner being operative to communicate image information. 7. The system of claim 6 wherein the scanner comprises a facsimile device. 8. The system of claim 2 further comprising a network connecting the dispenser, control system and control workstation. 9. The system of claim 8 wherein the network is selected from the group consisting of a telephone network connection, a local area network connection, an Internet connection and combinations thereof. 10. The system of claim 1 wherein the control system is associated with the dispenser. 11. The system of claim 8 wherein the pharmaceutical product dispenser is a first dispenser and the system further comprises: a second pharmaceutical product dispenser at a third location connected to the control system through the network; and third video communication apparatus associated with the second pharmaceutical product dispenser, the third video communication apparatus being operative to send and receive information between the second dispenser and the control workstation such that a person at the third location may consult with a pharmacist at the second location. 12. The system of claim 2 wherein the person is a pharmacy technician co-located at the dispenser. 13. A system for dispensing pharmaceuticals including a communication system enabling consultation between a person and a pharmacist at a location remote from the person, the system comprising: a pharmaceutical product dispenser at a first location, the dispenser including machine structure adapted to store and dispense a plurality of pharmaceutical products; a computer adapted to control operation of the dispenser; a data entry device for entering a prescription into the computer; a control facility at a second location operatively connected to the computer, the control facility being operative to receive the prescription and transmit a signal to the computer if fulfillment of the prescription is authorized, the dispenser being operative, in response to the signal, to dispense a packaged pharmaceutical product corresponding to the prescription; a code reader operative to read a code associated with the packaged pharmaceutical product; and a two-way video communication system associated with the dispenser such that a person at the first location may consult with a pharmacist at the second location. 14. The system of claim 13 wherein the two-way communication system comprises: first video communication apparatus associated with the dispenser; and second video communication apparatus associated with the control facility, the video communication apparatus being operative to send and receive information therebetween. 15. The system of claim 14 wherein the first and second video communication apparatus each include: a video input device; a video display; an audio input device; and an audio output device. 16. The system of claim 14 wherein the computer is a first computer associated with the first video communication apparatus, the system includes a second computer associated with the control facility and the second video communication apparatus, and the first and second computers are operative to send and receive information therebetween. 17. The system of claim 13 further comprising a network connecting the dispenser, computer and control facility. 18. The system of claim 17 wherein the network is selected from the group consisting of a telephone network connection, a local area network connection, an Internet connection and combinations thereof. 19. The system of claim 17 further comprising an image scanner operatively connected to the network. 20. The system of claim 19 wherein the scanner comprises a facsimile device. 21. The system of claim 13 wherein the dispenser comprises: a housing containing a plurality of packaged pharmaceutical products stored therein; an electronic controller operatively connected to the computer and adapted to control dispenser operation responsive to a signal from the computer; and a dispensing mechanism in the housing operatively controlled by the controller and operative to dispense the packaged pharmaceutical product from the dispenser. 22. The system of claim 13 further comprising a card reader connected to the dispensing system that reads an electronic card. 23. The system of claim 13 further comprising a software program on the computer such that a data packet including an authorization request for fulfillment of the prescription is transmitted along a communication link to the control facility and a returning data packet containing an adjudication result is received by the computer. 24. The system of claim 13 further comprising an Internet connection to the computer such that an authorization request for fulfillment of the prescription is transmitted to the control facility using the Internet. 25. The system of claim 13 further comprising a telephone network connection such that an authorization request for fulfillment of the prescription is transmitted using the telephone network. 26. The system of claim 13 further comprising a first video camera connected to the computer. 27. The system of claim 26 further comprising a second video camera connected to a second computer at the control facility. 28. The system of claim 13 further comprising an electronic memory device that stores adjudication data. 29. The system of claim 13 wherein the dispenser further comprises a plurality of bins, each bin having a dual valve dispensing unit. 30. The system of claim 13 wherein the dispenser further comprises a plurality of helical dispensers operative to dispense packaged pharmaceutical products. 31. A pharmaceutical dispensing system, comprising: a pharmaceutical product dispenser at a first location; a control workstation at a second location; a control system operatively connected to the control workstation and the dispenser, the control system being adapted to control dispenser operation such that the dispenser dispenses a packaged pharmaceutical product responsive to a signal from the control workstation; a code reader operative to read a code associated with the packaged pharmaceutical product; and video communication apparatus enabling a person at the first location to communicate with a person at the second location. 32. The system of claim 31 wherein the video communication apparatus comprises: first video communication apparatus associated with the dispenser; and second video communication apparatus associated with the control workstation, the video communication apparatus being operative to send and receive information therebetween. 33. The system of claim 32 wherein the control system comprises: a first computer associated with the dispenser and the first video communication apparatus; a controller operatively connected to the first computer and adapted to control dispenser operation responsive to a signal from the first computer; and a dispenser mechanism operatively controlled by the controller and operative to dispense the packaged pharmaceutical product from the dispenser. 34. The system of claim 33 wherein the system further comprises a second computer associated with the control workstation and second video communication apparatus. 35. The system of claim 34 wherein the first computer is operatively connected to the second computer, control system and dispenser to control the dispenser operation responsive to a signal from the second computer. 36. The system of claim 35 further comprising a network connecting the dispenser, control system and control workstation. 37. A pharmaceutical product dispensing system, comprising: a pharmaceutical product dispenser at a first location, the dispenser including machine structure adapted to store and dispense a plurality of pharmaceutical products; a computer adapted to control operation of the dispenser; a data entry device for entering information relating to a request for a pharmaceutical product into the computer; a control facility at a second location operatively connected to the computer, the control facility being operative to receive the request and transmit a signal to the computer if fulfillment of the request is authorized, the dispenser being operative, in response to the signal, to dispense a packaged pharmaceutical product corresponding to the request; a code reader operative to read a code associated with the packaged pharmaceutical product; and a two-way video communication system associated with the dispenser and control facility such that a person at the first location may communicate with a person at the second location. 