An apparatus and method for manufacturing semiconductor devices are disclosed. In accordance with the invention, a wafer transfer device for transferring wafers from wafer storage containers to wafer processing equipment includes a flow chamber designed to reduce the amount of contaminants that can enter the wafer container. The wafer transfer apparatus provide two gas inlets for allowing two gases to flow through the flow chamber of the transfer apparatus. This results in a reduced amount of contaminants able to enter the wafer container, which in turn results in manufacture of devices with more reliable performance characteristics as well as high manufacturing yield.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for processing a wafer, comprising: providing a flow chamber having a first gas inlet for allowing a first gas to flow in the flow chamber; providing a wafer inlet at which the wafer enters the flow chamber, the wafer inlet being coupled to a wafer storage device; providing a wafer outlet at which the wafer exits the flow chamber, the wafer outlet being adapted to be coupled to a wafer processing apparatus; providing a robotic apparatus in the flow chamber for moving the wafer from the wafer inlet to the wafer outlet; and allowing a second gas from a second gas inlet to enter the flow chamber such that a mixture gas including a combination of the first gas and the second gas flows into the wafer storage device, such that the amount of contaminants entering the wafer storage device is reduced, wherein the mixture gas has a substantially laminar flow in the flow chamber. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first gas comprises clean air. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second gas comprises inert gas. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the inert gas is a gas selected from nitrogen, helium, and argon. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first gas and the second gas comprise clean air and inert gas, respectively. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the second gas inlet is installed at an upper side of the flow chamber. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein a speed of the first gas and the second gas is reciprocally determined for laminar flow. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the second gas inlet has a shape selected from rectangular, cylindrical, and elongated triangle, and has a plurality of holes. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein wafers in the wafer storage device are transferred to process equipment, the process equipment being one of chemical vapor deposition (CVD) equipment and dry etching equipment. 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the mixture gas purges contaminants in the wafer storage device. 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the wafer storage device is a front opening unified pod (FOUP). 12. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises allowing a third gas to enter the flow chamber, such that the mixture gas is a combination of the first gas, the second gas and the third gas. 13. The method of claim 1, wherein the wafer processing apparatus is an equipment front-end module (EFEM). 14. The method of claim 1, wherein the robotic apparatus is a wafer handler. 15. A method for manufacturing a semiconductor device, comprising: storing a semiconductor wafer on which the device is manufactured in a wafer storage device; performing a manufacturing process on the wafer in a wafer processing apparatus; and transferring the wafer between the wafer storage device and the wafer processing apparatus using a wafer transfer apparatus, said transferring comprising: providing a flow chamber having a first gas inlet for allowing a first gas to flow in the flow chamber, coupling a wafer inlet at which the wafer enters the flow chamber to the wafer storage device, coupling a wafer outlet at which the wafer exits the flow chamber to the wafer processing apparatus, moving the wafer from the wafer inlet to the wafer outlet using a robotic apparatus, and allowing a second gas to enter the flow chamber through a second gas inlet such that a mixture gas including a combination of the first gas and the second gas flows into the wafer storage device, such that the amount of contaminants entering the wafer storage device is reduced, wherein the mixture gas has a substantially laminar flow in the flow chamber. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein the first gas comprises clean air. 17. The method of claim 15, wherein the second gas comprises inert gas. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the inert gas is a gas selected from nitrogen, helium, and argon. 19. The method of claim 15, wherein the first gas and the second gas comprise clean air and inert gas, respectively. 20. The method of claim 15, wherein the second gas inlet is installed at an upper side of the flow chamber. 21. The method of claim 15, wherein a speed of the first gas and the second gas is reciprocally determined for laminar flow. 22. The method of claim 15, wherein the second gas inlet has a shape selected from rectangular, cylindrical, and elongated triangle, and has a plurality of holes. 23. The method of claim 15, wherein wafers in the wafer storage device are transferred to process equipment, the process equipment being one of chemical vapor deposition (CVD) equipment and dry etching equipment. 24. The method of claim 23, wherein the mixture gas purges contaminants in the wafer storage device. 25. The method of claim 15, wherein the wafer storage device is a front opening unified pod (FOUP). 26. The method of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises allowing a third gas from a third gas inlet to enter the flow chamber, such that the mixture gas is a combination of the first gas, the second gas and the third gas. 27. The method of claim 15, wherein the wafer processing apparatus is an equipment front-end module (EFEM). 28. The method of claim 15, wherein the robotic apparatus is a wafer handler. 