Methods for operating robotic devices (i.e., "robots") that employ adaptive behavior relative to neighboring robots and external (e.g., environmental) conditions. Each robot is capable of receiving, processing, and acting on one or more multi-device primitive commands that describe a task the robot will perform in response to other robots and the external conditions. The commands facilitate a distributed command and control structure, relieving a central apparatus or operator from the need to monitor the progress of each robot. This virtually eliminates the corresponding constraint on the maximum number of robots that can be deployed to perform a task (e.g., data collection, mapping, searching). By increasing the number of robots, the efficiency in completing the task is also increased.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for operating robotic devices, the method comprising the steps of: defining a first robotic device; defining a second robotic device; receiving, by the first robotic device, at least one multi-device primitive command, wherein the multi-device primitive command is dependent at least in part on state data to perform a task; receiving, by the first robotic device, the state data based at least in part on a state of the second robotic device; and performing, by at least one of the first robotic device and the second robotic device, the task based at least in part on the multi-device primitive command and the state data. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one multi-device primitive command comprises at least one of a bond primitive, a multi-bond primitive, a cluster primitive, a disperse primitive, a clumping primitive, a group orbit primitive, a surround primitive, a shape primitive, a topological navigation primitive, an orientation primitive, and a configuration primitive. 3. The method of claim 2 wherein the configuration primitive comprises a signal propagation hierarchy. 4. The method of claim 1 wherein the state data are transmitted by the second robotic device. 5. The method of claim 1 wherein the first robotic device receives the state data directly from the second robotic device. 6. The method of claim 1 wherein the first robotic device receives the state data from the second robotic device via at least one intermediate agent. 7. The method of claim 6 wherein the at least one intermediate agent comprises a third robotic device. 8. The method of claim 6 wherein the at least one intermediate agent comprises a remote sensor. 9. The method of claim 6 wherein the at least one intermediate agent comprises an operator. 10. The method of claim 1 wherein the state data are conveyed optically. 11. The method of claim 1 wherein the state data are conveyed via radio frequency. 12. The method of claim 1 wherein the state data are conveyed via audio frequency. 13. The method of claim 1 wherein the state data are conveyed via a physical link. 14. The method of claim 1 wherein the state data are conveyed via stigmergy. 15. The method of claim 1 wherein the state data are conveyed at a predetermined power level. 16. The method of claim 1 wherein the state data comprises at least one of location, orientation, identity, hierarchy, speed, velocity, acceleration, operational readiness, and configuration of the second robotic device. 17. The method of claim 1 wherein the state data comprises a representation of at least part of a location occupied by the second robotic device. 18. The method of claim 17 wherein the representation comprises a visual representation. 19. The method of claim 17 wherein the representation comprises an audio representation. 20. The method of claim 17 wherein the representation comprises a tactile representation. 21. The method of claim 17 wherein the representation comprises an electromagnetic representation. 22. The method of claim 1 wherein the second robotic device comprises a fixed transmitter. 23. The method of claim 1 wherein the task comprises at least one of data collection, mapping, and searching. 24. A robotic device comprising: a sensing apparatus capable of receiving data based at least in part on a location occupied by the robotic device; a receiving apparatus capable of receiving at least one multi-device primitive command, wherein the multi-device primitive command is dependent at least in part on state data to perform a task; a transmitting apparatus capable of transmitting data; and a processing apparatus in communication with the sensing apparatus, the receiving apparatus, and the transmitting apparatus, the processing apparatus capable of processing the at least one multi-device primitive command and capable of directing at least the robotic device to perform the task. 25. The robotic device of claim 24 wherein the sensing apparatus comprises at least one of an optical sensor, an audio sensor, a radio frequency receiver, a positional sensor, a tactile sensor, an environmental sensor, and an electromagnetic sensor. 26. The robotic device of claim 24 wherein the receiving apparatus comprises at least one of an optical receiver, an audio receiver, a radio frequency receiver, and a hardwire port. 27. The robotic device of claim 24 wherein the transmitting apparatus comprises at least one of an optical transmitter, an audio transmitter, a radio frequency transmitter, a stigmergy transmitter, and a hardwire port. 28. The robotic device of claim 24 wherein the receiving apparatus and the transmitting apparatus are integrated in a single apparatus. 29. The robotic device of claim 24 wherein the task comprises at least one of data collection, mapping, and searching. 