A portable welding cell unit includes a frame structure in which first and second welding stations are disposed. A robot arm is also provided within the frame. The robot arm can pivot between the first and second welding stations such that a work piece can be welded in the first welding station while a work piece is being loaded into or unloaded from the second welding station.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A portable welding cell unit comprising: a frame; a first welding table mounted to the frame; a second welding table mounted to the frame and horizontally spaced from the first welding table; a cell unit door movable between an open and closed position and attached to the frame for providing selective access to at least one of the first welding table and the second welding table; a robot disposed within the frame; and a side wall attached to the frame and movable between a first position to provide a first clearance area for the robot and a second position to provide a second clearance area that is greater than the first clearance area. 2. The unit of claim 1, wherein the frame is dimensioned to fit into a pickup truck. 3. The unit of claim 1, wherein the side wall is pivotally mounted to the frame. 4. The unit of claim 3, wherein the side wall in the first position is disposed at least generally perpendicular to the cell unit door in the closed position. 5. The unit of claim 1, wherein the side wall comprises a first side wall and the unit further comprises a second side wall attached to the frame and movable between a first position and a second position. 6. The unit of claim 5, wherein the first side wall is disposed opposite the second side wall. 7. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a retractable panel attached to the side wall, wherein the retractable panel is situated substantially parallel to the cell unit door in the closed position. 8. The unit of claim 7, further comprising a retractable floor attached to the side wall and the retractable panel. 9. The unit of claim 1, wherein the side wall comprises an at least substantially box-shaped outrigger. 10. The unit of claim 9, wherein the outrigger is reversible to extend outward from the frame in the first position and inward into the frame in the second position. 11. The unit of claim 9, wherein the side wall comprises a first substantially box-shaped outrigger associated with the first welding table and the unit further comprises a second substantially box-shaped outrigger mounted to the frame opposite the first substantially box-shaped outrigger and associated with the second welding table, wherein at least one of the outriggers has an open bottom. 12. The unit of claim 1, wherein the cell unit door is pivotally and slidably mounted to the frame. 13. The unit of claim 12, wherein the cell unit door is slidable to a position interposed between the first welding table and the second welding table. 14. The unit of claim 1, wherein the cell unit door comprises a first slidable door and the unit further comprises a second slidable door, wherein the first slidable door provides selective access to the first welding table and the second welding door provides selective access to the second welding table. 15. The unit of claim 14, wherein the first slidable door is slidable to a position interposed between the first welding table and the second welding table. 16. The unit of claim 15, wherein the second slidable door is slidable to a position interposed between the first welding table and the second welding table. 17. The unit of claim 14, wherein each slidable door includes a window. 18. The unit of claim 1, wherein the cell unit door comprises a folding door having an internal hinge. 19. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a rear knockout wall disposed behind the robot. 20. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a torch conditioner compartment mounted to the frame. 21. The unit of claim 20, further comprising a reamer disposed in the torch conditioner compartment. 22. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a touch sensing probe located within the frame. 23. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a reel shaft extending from the frame. 24. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a wire feed motor attached to the frame. 25. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a positioning flange having an arcuate edge extending from the frame. 26. The unit of claim 25, wherein the positioning flange includes a hook for a chain. 27. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a tool drawer mounted to the frame. 28. The unit of claim 27, wherein the tool drawer is mounted underneath the cell unit door. 29. The unit of claim 28, further comprising an auxiliary outlet mounted underneath the tool drawer. 30. The unit of claim 1, further comprising a pendant hook attached to the frame. 31. The unit of claim 1, wherein the frame is adapted to be lifted by a fork lift. 32. The unit of claim 31, wherein the frame includes a side fork lift receptacle. 33. The unit of claim 32, wherein the frame includes at least two side fork lift receptacles. 34. The unit of claim 32, wherein the frame includes a front/rear fork lift receptacle. 35. The unit of claim 34, wherein the frame includes at least two front/rear fork lift receptacles. 36. The unit of claim 1, further comprising hooks for lifting the unit from overhead, the hooks attached to the frame. 37. A portable welding cell unit comprising: a frame; a first welding station located within the frame; a second welding station spaced from the first welding station and located within the frame; a door movable between an open and closed position and attached to the frame for providing selective access to at least one of the first welding station and the second welding station; a side wall movably mounted to the frame; a retractable panel attached to the side wall; and a robot arm disposed in the frame. 38. The unit of claim 37, wherein the frame is dimensioned to fit into a bed of a pickup truck. 39. The unit of claim 37, wherein the side wall pivotally mounts to the frame. 40. The unit of claim 37, further comprising a retractable floor attached to the side wall and the retractable panel. 41. The unit of claim 37, wherein the side wall comprises first and second pivoting side walls attached to the frame. 42. The unit of claim 41, wherein the first side wall is opposite the second side wall. 43. The unit of claim 42, wherein the first side wall pivots in a first rotational direction and the second side wall pivots in a second rotational direction, which is opposite the first rotational direction. 44. The unit of claim 37, wherein the door is pivotally and slidably mounted to the frame. 45. The unit of claim 44, wherein the door is slidable to a position interposed between the first welding station and the second welding station. 46. The unit of claim 45, wherein the door comprises a material to provide arc shield protection. 47. The unit of claim 37, wherein the door comprises a material to provide arc shield protection. 48. The unit of claim 47, further comprising a window disposed in the door. 49. The unit of claim 48, wherein the window comprises an auto-darkening lens. 50. The unit of claim 37, wherein the door comprises a first door attached to the frame and associated with the first welding station and a second door attached to the frame and associated with the second welding station. 51. The unit of claim 50, wherein each door is pivotally mounted to the frame. 52. The unit of claim 51, wherein each door is slidably mounted to the frame. 53. The unit of claim 52, wherein each door is adapted to slide into the frame when opened at least 90 degrees from a closed position. 54. The unit of claim 53, wherein at least one of the doors includes a window. 55. The unit of claim 37, wherein the door comprises a folding door having an internal hinge. 56. The unit of claim 37, further comprising a rear knockout wall attached to the frame. 57. The unit of claim 56, further comprising a first rear wall and a second rear wall disposed on each side of the rear knockout wall, wherein each rear wall is generally parallel to and spaced from the rear knockout wall. 58. The unit of claim 57, wherein the rear knockout wall is disposed behind the robot to allow the robot more freedom of movement when rotating between the first welding station and the second welding station. 59. The unit of claim 37, further comprising a torch conditioner compartment mounted to the frame. 60. The unit of claim 37, further comprising a touch sensing probe located within the frame. 61. The unit of claim 37, further comprising a reel shaft extending from the frame. 62. The unit of claim 61, further comprising a wire feed motor attached to the frame. 63. The unit of claim 37, further comprising a wire feed motor attached to the frame. 64. The unit of claim 37, further comprising a positioning flange having arcuate edges extending from the frame. 65. The unit of claim 64, wherein the positioning flange includes a hook for a chain. 66. The unit of claim 37, further comprising a tool drawer mounted to the frame. 67. The unit of claim 37, further comprising an auxiliary outlet. 68. The unit of claim 37, further comprising a pendant hook attached to the frame. 69. The unit of claim 37, wherein the frame includes at least two forklift receptacles. 70. A portable welding cell unit comprising: a frame; a first welding station located within the frame; a second welding station spaced from the first welding station and located within the frame; a door movable between an open and closed position and attached to the frame for providing selective access to at least one of the first welding table and the second welding table; a substantially box-shaped outrigger removably mounted to the frame; and a robot arm disposed in the frame. 71. The unit of claim 70, wherein the outrigger is adapted to mount to the frame such that the outrigger extends into the frame. 72. The unit of claim 70, wherein the outrigger is adapted to mount to the frame such that the outrigger extends out of the frame. 73. The unit of claim 70, wherein the outrigger is open at the bottom. 74. The unit of claim 70, wherein the frame is configured to fit into a bed of a pickup truck. 