The present invention comprises a vacuum end effector having workpiece supports that work in conjunction with distorted workpiece surfaces. In one embodiment, each workpiece support has the ability to gimbal and conform the workpiece surface in contact with an outer edge of the support. Each workpiece support preferably provides a knife-like contact edge to minimize the contact area between the support and the workpiece while still providing an effective vacuum area to hold the wafer securely on the support. In another embodiment, each workpiece support is replaceable without having to remove the end effector from the robot assembly
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An end effector for transporting a semiconductor workpiece, comprising: a low-profile body having a proximal end and a distal end, said distal end including a recessed pocket in fluid communication with a vacuum channel passing through a portion of said low-profile body; a support pad partially seated within said recessed pocket, including: a central portion having a vacuum passage extending through; and a body extending outward from said central portion and transitioning into an elevated contact surface; and a retaining device having a first surface adhered to a portion of said recessed pocket and a second surface adhered to an underside of said body of said support pad. 2. The end effector as recited in claim 1, wherein said retaining device comprises a flexible elastomeric material. 3. The end effector as recited in claim 1, wherein said elevated contact surface comprises a circular geometry. 4. The end effector as recited in claim 1, wherein said first surface of said retaining device is adhered to a bottom surface of said recessed pocket. 5. The end effector as recited in claim 1, wherein said recessed pocket further includes a channel in a bottom surface of said recessed pocket. 6. The end effector as recited in claim 5, wherein said retaining device is seated within said channel. 7. The end effector as recited in claim 1, further including a second recessed pocket, not in fluid communication with said vacuum channel, located in said proximal end of said low-profile body. 8. The end effector as recited in claim 7, further including a second support pad partially seated within said second recessed pocket. 