An apparatus for bending orthodontic wires has means for guiding and holding a wire. In order to prevent forces resulting from compressive or stretching strain during the bending process, one of these means does not apply any longitudinal forces onto the wire by design. In another implementation, the apparatus for bending orthodontic wires has a gimbal-mounted gripper for bending the wire. Furthermore, a method is disclosed for applying two bends at the same longitudinal wire location in two different directions.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of bending an orthodontic wire performed by a bending apparatus, comprising the steps of holding a first portion of the wire with first holding means; holding a second portion of the wire with second holding means, the second portion of the wire substantially longitudinally spaced apart from the first portion of the wire; and performing a relative movement between the first holding means and the second holding means along at least one axis so as to place a bend in the wire having a desired configuration, the first holding means allowing substantially unrestricted longitudinal movement of the first portion of the wire at least during the process of actually deforming the wire such that the wire is pulled through the first holding means. 2. A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising the step of performing the relative movement between the first and the second holding means so as to extend the wire through the first holding means. 3. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the method steps are performed repeatedly in a numerically controlled process so as to place at least two bends in the wire. 4. A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the relative movement is at least partially non-perpendicular relative to the longitudinal axis of the first portion of the wire. 5. A method of shaping a customized orthodontic wire and measuring the actual shape applied, comprising the steps of holding different portions of the wire by two separate and spaced apart holding means, the holding means being moveable relatively to each other, performing a relative movement between the two holding means by means of at least one numerically controlled actuator so as to reshape the wire to a desired configuration; substantially isolating at least one of the two holding means from forces imposed by the at least one numerically controlled actuator; and measuring the relative position between the two holding means. 6. A method of shaping an orthodontic wire and measuring the actual shape applied, comprising the steps of holding different portions of the wire by two separate and spaced apart holding means, the holding means being moveable relatively to each other; performing a relative movement between the two holding means by means of at least one numerically controlled actuator so as to reshape the wire to a desired configuration; compensating at least partially for forces acting onto at least one of the two holding means with the exception of forces imposed by the wire; and measuring the relative position between the two holding means. 7. An apparatus for shaping an orthodontic wire, comprising at least first and second holding means to shape a bend into the wire, the first and the second holding means each separately holding and gripping the wire at a substantially different longitudinal position of the wire, at least one of the first and second holding means allowing a substantially unrestricted longitudinal movement of the wire at least during the process of actually deforming the wire, and at least one of the holding means mounted onto a movable axis. 8. An apparatus as defined in claim 7, further comprising means for numerically controlling the position of at least one of the axes. 9. An apparatus as defined in claim 7, further comprising means for substantially isolating at least one of the axis from forces other than imposed by the wire. 10. An apparatus as defined in claim 7, further comprising means for substantially compensating forces acting onto at least one of the axes with the exception of forces imposed by the wire. 11. An apparatus as defined in claim 7, further comprising means for measuring the position of at least one of the axes. 12. An apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein at least one of the holding means is gimbal mounted and moveable in at least two axes. 13. An apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein two of the holding means are mounted each onto a pivoting axis allowing a rotational movement, the pivoting axes of said movements being substantially equal to the longitudinal axes of portions of the wire being held by the holding means, and wherein at least one of the pivoting axes is mounted onto another rotational axis being substantially perpendicular to both of the pivoting axes. 14. An apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein the first holding means guides the wire and the second holding means grips the wire during the process of actually deforming the wire. 15. An apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein the substantially unrestricted longitudinal movement of the wire is substantially unrestricted unidirectional longitudinal movement within the holding means. 16. An apparatus as defined in claim 7, wherein the at least one of the holding means mounted onto a movable axis performs at least partially a non-perpendicular movement relative to the longitudinal axis of a portion of the wire held by the first holding means. 17. An apparatus for bending an orthodontic wire, comprising: at least two holding means for placing a bend into the wire, at least one of the holding means allowing substantially unrestricted longitudinal movement of the wire at least during the process of actually deforming the wire, and at least one of the holding means mounted onto a moveable axis; and means for numerically controlling the position of at least one of the axes. 18. An apparatus for bending an orthodontic wire, comprising: at least two holding means for placing a bend into the wire, at least one of the holding means allowing substantially unrestricted longitudinal movement of the wire at least during the process of actually deforming the wire, and at least one of the holding means mounted onto a movable axis; and means for substantially isolating at least one of the axis from forces other than imposed by the wire. 19. An apparatus for bending an orthodontic wire, comprising: at least two holding means for placing a bend into the wire, at least one of the holding means allowing substantially unrestricted longitudinal movement of the wire at least during the process of actually deforming the wire, and at least one of the holding means mounted onto a movable axis; and means for substantially isolating at least one of the axis from forces other than imposed by the wire. 20. An apparatus for bending an orthodontic wire, comprising: at least two holding means for placing a bend into the wire, at least one of the holding means allowing substantially unrestricted longitudinal movement of the wire at least during the process of actually deforming the wire, and at least one of the holding means mounted onto a movable axis; and means for measuring the position of at least one of the axes. 21. An apparatus for bending an orthodontic wire, comprising at least two holding means for placing a bend into the wire, at least one of the holding means allowing substantially unrestricted longitudinal movement of the wire at least during the process of actually deforming the wire, and at least one of the holding means mounted onto a movable axis, and at least one of the holding means is gimbal mounted and moveable in at least one of the axes. 22. An apparatus for bending an orthodontic wire, comprising at least two holding means capable of placing a bend into the wire, at least one of the holding means allowing a substantially unrestricted longitudinal movement of the wire at least during the process of actually deforming the wire, two of the holding means each being mounted onto a pivoting axis allowing a rotational movement, the pivoting axes of said movements being substantially equal to the longitudinal axes of portions fo the wire being held by the holding means, at least one of the pivoting axes mounted onto another rotational axis being substantially perpendicular to both of the pivoting axes. 