A method and apparatus for manipulating a contact tip of a welding device includes a member, e.g., a clutch bearing or other device, that securely grasps the contact tip and minimizes damage thereto. The method and apparatus can be used to install or remove a contact tip into/from a welding device, e.g., without the need to remove the nozzle of the welding device.
Claims What is claimed: 1. An apparatus that removes or replaces a contact tip of a welding device, comprising: a main body including a first end and a second end defining an elongated portion therebetween, at least the first end defining a bore; and a member including a clutch bearing, the member disposed relative to the bore of the first end of the main body and adapted to receive and engage a tubular perimeter of the contact tip to remove or replace the contact tip upon manipulation of the main body. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first end of the main body is insertable into a nozzle of the welding device. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the clutch bearing installs the contact tip in a retaining head of the welding device. 4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the clutch bearing removes the contact tip from a retaining head of the welding device. 5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the clutch bearing comprises a one-way clutch bearing. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the member comprises a cutter. 7. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising a handle removably attached to the elongated portion of the main body. 8. A method of removing or replacing a contact tip of a welding device, comprising: providing a main body including a first end and a second end defining an elongated portion therebetween, at least the first end defining a bore and including a member disposed relative to the bore, the member including a clutch bearing to engage a tubular perimeter of the contact tip; receiving the contact tip in the member; and manipulating the main body to remove or replace the contact tip. 9. The method of claim 8 further comprising inserting the first end of the main body into a bore of a nozzle of the welding device to receive the contact tip. 10. The method of claim 8 wherein the manipulating step comprises installing the contact tip into a retaining head of the welding device. 11. The method of claim 8 wherein the manipulating step comprises removing the contact tip from a retaining head of the welding device. 12. A method of manufacturing a tool to manipulate a contact tip of a welding device, comprising: forming a main body including a first end and a second end defining an elongated portion therebetween, at least the first end defining a bore; providing a member to receive and engage a tubular perimeter of the contact tip for removing or replacing the contact tip, the member including a clutch bearing; and positioning the member relative to the bore. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising forming the first end of the main body so that it is insertable into a nozzle of the welding device. 14. The method of claim 12 wherein the clutch bearing installs the contact tip in a retaining head of the welding device. 15. The method of claim 12 wherein the clutch bearing removes the contact tip from a retaining head of the welding device. 16. The method of claim 12 wherein the clutch bearing comprises a one-way clutch bearing. 17. The method of claim 12 further comprising attaching a handle to the elongated portion of the main body. 18. An apparatus that removes or replaces a contact tip of a welding device, comprising: a first means including a first end and a second end defining an elongated solid portion therebetween, at least the first end defining a bore; and a second means that receives the contact tip and that removes or replaces the contact tip, the second means including means in contact with a tubular perimeter of the contact tip to manipulate the contact tip, the second means disposed relative to the bore defined by the first end. 19. An apparatus that removes or replaces a contact tip of a welding device, comprising: a main body including a first end and a second end defining an elongated portion therebetween, wherein the first end defines a bore and is insertable into a nozzle of the welding device; and a member disposed relative to the bore of the first end of the main body, that receives and removes or replaces the contact tip upon manipulation of the main body. 