A control device including a housing and a carrier moveable with respect to the housing in a first rotary degree of freedom. A first sensor senses the movement of the carrier and outputs a first control signal. A roller rotatably coupled to the carrier rotates with the carrier in the first degree of freedom and rotates independently of the carrier in a second rotary degree of freedom. A second sensor senses rotary motion of the roller and outputs a second control signal. Preferably, an arm member coupled between carrier and housing pivots about an axis. A third sensor, such as a switch, can be used to detect when the carrier has been pushed in a direction substantially orthogonal to a plane of rotation of the arm member. Force feedback can also be provided in the rotary degrees of freedom of the control device.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus comprising: a manipulandum movable in at least two rotary degrees of freedom, wherein said at least two rotary degrees of freedom comprise a first and a second rotary degree of freedom, wherein an axis of rotation of said first rotary degree of freedom is substantially perpendicular to an axis of rotation of said second rotary degree of freedom; a sensor operable to detect a position of said manipulandum and a deviation of said manipulandum from said position and to output a first sensor signal associated with said deviation of said manipulandum from said position; a first actuator operable to provide tactile feedback to said manipulandum in a first of said at least two degrees of freedom, the tactile feedback associated with said first sensor signal; a second actuator operable to provide tactile feedback to said manipulandum in a second of said at least two degrees of freedom, the tactile feedback associated with said first sensor signal; and a first processor operable to control said first actuator and said second actuator and to receive said first sensor signal from said sensor. 2. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said manipulandum comprises a roller. 3. An apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein said roller communicates an electrical signal output to said first processor. 4. An apparatus as recited in claim 2 wherein said roller is moveable in two degrees of freedom. 5. An apparatus as recited in claim 4 wherein said two degrees of freedom comprise a rotary degree of freedom and a translatory degree of freedom. 6. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising a local display screen. 7. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising a microphone. 8. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said first processor is included in a video game console. 9. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said first processor is included in a computer. 10. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said first processor is included in a Web-access device. 11. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said first processor is included in an electronic device. 12. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising a second processor, separate from said first processor and operable to communicate with said first processor. 13. An apparatus as recited in claim 6 wherein said local display screen further comprises a touch-sensitive surface. 14. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said sensor is operable to detect an amount of said deviation of said manipulandum from said position and to output a second sensor signal associated with said amount of said deviation of said manipulandum from said position, said first processor operable to receive said second signal. 15. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said first processor is operable to associate a value with said position of said manipulandum in a position control mapping mode and to control a rate of change of said value in a rate control mapping mode. 16. An apparatus as recited in claim 15 wherein said first processor is operable to control said tactile feedback to said manipulandum in said rate control mapping mode. 17. An apparatus as recited in claim 15 wherein said first actuator is operable to output a force detent during a displacement of said manipulandum in said position control mapping mode. 18. An apparatus as recited in claim 15 wherein said rate of change associates with a displacement of said manipulandum with respect to said position of said manipulandum. 19. An apparatus as recited in claim 18 wherein said first processor is operable to control said position of said manipulandum in said rate control mapping mode. 20. An apparatus as recited in claim 19 wherein said first processor is operable to control a biasing force applied to said manipulandum in a direction toward said position in said rate control mapping mode. 21. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 further comprising a wireless communication interface operable to communicate with said first processor. 22. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said deviation comprises a distance. 23. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said deviation comprises a direction. 24. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said deviation comprises a rate of change. 25. An apparatus as recited in claim 1 wherein said deviation is measured substantially in real-time. 26. An apparatus comprising: a manipulandum movable in at least two rotary degrees of freedom, wherein said at least two rotary degrees of freedom comprise a first and a second rotary degree of freedom, wherein an axis of rotation of said first rotary degree of freedom is substantially perpendicular to an axis of rotation of said second rotary degree of freedom; a sensor operable to detect a motion of said manipulandum and to output a first signal associated with a detected motion of said manipulandum; a first actuator operable to output a first force to said manipulandum, the first force associated with said first signal; a second actuator operable to output a second force to said manipulandum, the second force associated with said first signal; and a first processor operable to control said first actuator and said second actuator and to receive said first signal from said sensor; and a second processor in communication with said first processor, said second processor operable to control said first processor, wherein said sensor is operable to detect a first position of said manipulandum, a second position of said manipulandum, and an amount of a deviation between said first and second positions and to output a second signal that associates with said first position, a third signal that associates with said second position, and a fourth signal that associates with said amount of said deviation, said first processor operable to receive said second, third, and fourth signals. 27. An apparatus as recited in claim 26 wherein said first processor is operable to associate a value with said first position of said manipulandum in a position control mapping mode and to control a rate of change of said value in a rate of control mapping mode. 28. An apparatus as recited in claim 27 wherein said first processor is operable to control said force to said manipulandum in said rate control mapping mode. 29. An apparatus as recited in claim 27 wherein said first actuator is operable to output a force detent during a displacement of said manipulandum in said position control mapping mode. 30. An apparatus as recited in claim 27 wherein said rate of change associates with a displacement of said manipulandum with respect to said first position of said manipulandum. 31. An apparatus as recited in claim 30 wherein said first processor is operable to control said first position of said manipulandum in said rate control mapping mode. 32. An apparatus as recited in claim 31 wherein said first processor is operable to control a biasing force applied to said manipulandum in a direction toward said first position in said rate control mapping mode. 