Preform for carbon-carbon composite part (55) comprising multiple layers of fibrous mats (51, 52, 53) wherein each mat (51, 52, 53) comprises random carbon-containing fibrous matrix (11) having polymeric binder distributed therein and wherein adjacent mats (51, 52, 53) are bound together by additional polymer binder, stitching, and interlocking tabs. Also, method of manufacturing thick multi-layer composite preform, by: providing optionally reconfigurable tool including perforated screen through which vacuum can be drawn; delivering chopped fibers (b) to the tool while drawing vacuum therethrough to form fibrous object; delivering binder (c) to the fibrous object; melting or curing the binder (d) to make a fibrous mat (51, 52, 53); assembling plurality of the fibrous mats (51, 52, 53) and additional binder into the shape of a preform (e); and heat-pressing the resulting mat assembly (f) into finished thick preform (55).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of making multi-layer composite preform having a desired shape and a thickness in the range 0.25 to 7.5 inches and comprising multiple layers of fibrous mats wherein each of said fibrous mats comprises a random carbon-containing fibrous body within which is distributed a polymeric binder and wherein adjacent mat layers are bound together by additional polymer binder, stitching, and interlocking tabs, which method comprises the steps of: a.) providing a tool for shaping a fibrous mat layer, said tool including a perforated screen through which a vacuum can be drawn, wherein said tool is reconfigurable such that differently shaped composite preforms can be manufactured in the tool, b.) configuring said tool to provide said desired shape, c.) delivering chopped fiber tow to said configured tool while drawing vacuum therethrough, to form a fibrous object having said desired shape, d.) delivering binder to said fibrous object, e.) melting or curing said binder to make a fibrous mat, f.) assembling a plurality of said fibrous mats and additional binder into said preform having said desired shape for a carbon-carbon composite part in the substantial absence of cutting or other mechanical modification, and g.) heat-pressing the resulting mat assembly into a finished preform. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein in step c.) said fibers comprise pitch fibers, polyacrylonitrile fibers, or mixtures thereof. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein in step d.) the binder is delivered in the form of a spray and wherein step d.) is conducted simultaneously with step c.). 4. The method of claim 1, wherein in step g.) said heat-pressing operation is conducted in a mold having the shape of the desired preform. 5. The method of claim 1, which further comprises the step of: h.) carbonizing and densifying said preform to provide a carbon-carbon composite. 