In one aspect, a method of interconnecting two or more foils of a capacitor, the method comprising connecting together one or more anode connection members of one or more anode foils and one or more cathode connection members of one or more cathode foils and electrically isolating the one or more anode foils from the one or more cathode foils.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An implantable medical device comprising: one or more leads for sensing electrical signals of a patient or for applying electrical energy to the patient; a monitoring circuit for monitoring heart activity of the patient through one or more of the leads; and a therapy circuit for delivering electrical energy through one or more of the leads to a heart of the patient, wherein the therapy circuit includes one or more capacitors having a capacitor stack constructed by a method including: connecting one or more anode connection members of one or more anode foils together with one or more cathode connection members of one or more cathode foils; and electrically isolating the one or more anode foils from the one or more cathode foils by removing a distal section of the cathode foils and a distal section of the anode foils such that at least a portion of the distal section of the cathode foils is left between alternating layers of proximal sections of the anode foils and at least a portion of the distal section of the anode foils is left between alternating layers of proximal sections of the cathode foils. 2. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein electrically isolating comprises separating a portion of the one or more anode connection members from a portion of the one or more cathode connection members. 3. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein electrically isolating comprises removing at least part of a commonly positioned portion of each of the one or more anode connection members and the one or more cathode connection members. 4. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein electrically isolating comprises laser cutting at least part of a commonly positioned portion of each of the one or more anode connection members and the one or more cathode connection members. 5. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein connecting comprises connecting during a continuous connection process. 6. The implantable medical device of claim 1, wherein connecting comprises using an uninterrupted welding process to connect one or more edges of a distal portion of each of the one or more anode connection members to one or more edges of a distal portion of each of the one or more cathode connection members. 7. An implantable medical device comprising: one or more leads for sensing electrical signals of a patient or for applying electrical energy to the patient; a monitoring circuit for monitoring heart activity of the patient through one or more of the leads; and a therapy circuit for delivering electrical energy through one or more of the leads to a heart of the patient, wherein the therapy circuit includes one or more capacitors having a capacitor stack constructed by a method including: positioning an anode connection member having a distal section and a proximal section and a cathode connection member having a distal section and a proximal section so that the distal section of the anode connection member overlays the distal section of the cathode connection member; connecting the anode connection member and the cathode connection member; and forming a separation in the distal section of the anode connection member and the distal section of the cathode connection member such that the proximal section of the anode connection member is electrically isolated from the proximal section of the cathode connection member and such that at least a portion of the distal section of the cathode connection member is left between alternating layers of proximal sections of the anode connection members and at least a portion of the distal section of the anode connection member is left between alternating layers of proximal sections of the cathode connection members. 8. The implantable medical device of claim 7, wherein positioning further comprises positioning the anode connection member and the cathode connection member so that the proximal section of the anode connection member does not overlay the proximal section of the cathode connection member. 9. The implantable medical device of claim 7, wherein connecting comprises connecting the distal section of the anode connection member and the distal section of the cathode connection member. 10. The implantable medical device of claim 7, wherein forming a separation comprises removing a portion of the distal section of the anode connection member and the distal section of the cathode connection member. 11. The implantable medical device of claim 10, wherein removing comprises punching-out. 12. The implantable medical device of claim 10, wherein removing comprises laser cutting. 13. The implantable medical device of claim 7, wherein connecting comprises a continuous connection process. 14. The implantable medical device of claim 13, wherein the continuous connection process comprises edge-welding at least a portion of the distal sections of the anode connection member and the cathode connection member together. 15. The implantable medical device of claim 7, wherein the anode connection member includes at least a partially unetched portion. 