A multi-modal container handling system includes a tool presentation platform mounted to a multi-axis robot. The platform has a number of mechanically locking collets for handling either empty or full containers, and a number of multi-jawed grippers telescopically mounted to the platform for handling empty containers. Both the collets and grippers may be used for moving empty containers, with the collets being used exclusively for inserting full containers into a shipping rack.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A multi-modal container handling tool for handling full and empty containers, comprising: a tool presentation platform; a handling device, rigidly mounted to said platform, adapted to grasp and handle at least one of the full and empty containers; and a second handling device, compliantly mounted to said platform, adapted to grasp and handle the containers having weights less than the full container, said second handling device comprising a multi-jawed gripper mounted telescopically to said tool presentation platform. 2. A multi-modal container handling tool according to claim 1, wherein said handling device comprises a mechanically locking collet. 3. A multi-modal container handling tool according to claim 2, wherein said mechanically locking collet is adapted to lock upon a neck portion of a container. 4. A multi-modal container handling tool according to claim 3, wherein said multi-jawed gripper is adapted to lock upon an upper portion of a container. 5. A multi-modal container handling tool according to claim 4, wherein said multi-jawed gripper is adapted to lock upon a neck portion of the container. 6. A multi-modal container handling tool according to claim 1, wherein said multi-jawed gripper comprises a vacuum gripper. 7. A multi-modal container handling tool according to claim 6, wherein said multi-jawed gripper comprises a vacuum gripper having a plurality of vacuum application units. 8. A multi-modal container handling tool according to claim 1, wherein said multi-jawed gripper comprises a pneumatically powered mechanical gripper. 9. A multi-modal container handling tool according to claim 1, wherein the containers comprise bottles for containing liquid. 10. A multi-modal container handling system, comprising: a multi-axis robot base; an arm mounted to said base; and a multi-modal tool mounted to said arm, with said tool comprising: a tool presentation platform; a plurality of mechanically locking collets, mounted directly to said tool presentation platform, for simultaneously grasping a plurality of full containers about structures built into said containers; and a plurality of telescopically mounted multi-jawed grippers, extending telescopically from said platform, for extending and grasping a plurality of empty containers, with said telescopically mounted grippers retracting telescopically once said plurality of empty containers has been grasped. 11. A multi-modal container handling system according to claim 10, wherein each of said telescopically mounted grippers comprises a vacuum unit for locking upon an external surface of a container, with said grippers being mounted to a telescoping actuator such that said telescopic retraction is begun once a vacuum has been pulled between said vacuum unit and one of said plurality of empty containers. 12. A multi-modal container handling system according to claim 10, wherein each of said telescopically mounted grippers comprises a pneumatically powered mechanical gripper for locking upon an external surface of a container, with said grippers being mounted to a plurality of telescopic actuators such that said telescopic retraction of each of said grippers is begun once any particular gripper has contacted one of said plurality of empty containers. 13. A multi-modal container handling system according to claim 10, wherein each of said telescopically mounted grippers comprises a plurality of vacuum units for simultaneously locking upon an external surface of a container and triggering retraction of the telescopic mount. 14. A multi-modal container handling tool according to claim 10, wherein said full and empty containers comprise bottles for containing liquid. 15. A method for employing a robot to unload and load containers from a carrier rack, comprising the steps of: grasping at least a first plurality of empty containers, contained within said carrier rack, with a plurality of mechanically locking collets mounted directly upon a robot arm attached to said robot; grasping at least a second plurality of empty containers, contained within said carrier rack, with a plurality of grippers mounted telescopically upon said robot arm; withdrawing said first plurality of containers and said second plurality of containers from said carrier rack by moving said robot arm, with said mechanically locking collets and said telescopically mounted grippers, in a direction away from said carrier rack; releasing said first plurality of containers from said mechanically locking collets; releasing said second plurality of containers from said telescopically mounted grippers; grasping at least a third plurality of full containers with said mechanically locking collets; and using said robot arm and said mechanically locking collets to insert said third plurality of containers into said carrier rank. 16. A method for employing a robot to unload and then load containers from a carrier rack, comprising the steps of: grasping at least a first plurality of empty containers with a plurality of grippers mounted telescopically upon a robot arm; withdrawing said first plurality of containers from said carrier rack by moving said robot arm and said grippers in a direction away from said carrier rack; grasping at least a second plurality of full containers with a plurality of mechanically locking collets mounted directly upon said robot arm; and using said robot arm and said mechanically locking collets to insert said second plurality of containers into said carrier rack. 