The present invention relates to a lithographic apparatus including an illumination system configured to condition a radiation beam, a patterning device support constructed to support a patterning device, the patterning device being capable of imparting the radiation beam with a pattern in its cross-section to form a patterned radiation beam, a substrate support constructed to hold a substrate, and a projection system configured to project the patterned radiation beam onto a target portion of the substrate, wherein the lithographic apparatus includes an exchangeable object handling apparatus for exchanging an exchangeable object with an exchangeable object loading station and a support, the exchangeable object handling apparatus including three or more end-effectors each capable of exchanging an exchangeable object with one of the supports. Such lithographic apparatus is in particular suited for the streaming of subsequent double exposure jobs.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A lithographic apparatus comprising: an illumination system configured to condition a radiation beam; a patterning device support constructed to support a patterning device, the patterning device being capable of imparting the radiation beam with a pattern in its cross-section to form a patterned radiation beam; a substrate support constructed to hold a substrate; a projection system configured to project the patterned radiation beam onto a target portion of the substrate, and an exchangeable object handling apparatus configured to exchange an exchangeable object between an exchangeable object loading station and one of said supports, said exchangeable object handling apparatus comprising three or more end-effectors each capable of directly exchanging an exchangeable object with said one of said supports. 2. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said exchangeable object handling apparatus includes an even number of end-effectors each capable of exchanging one exchangeable object with said one of said supports. 3. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said exchangeable object handling apparatus comprises four end-effectors each capable of exchanging one exchangeable object with said one of said supports. 4. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said three or more end-effectors are arranged substantially equally spaced around an axis of rotation of said exchanging handling apparatus. 5. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said exchangeable object handling apparatus comprises a turret and a robot, said turret being configured to exchange an exchangeable object with said robot and said one of said supports and comprising said three or more end-effectors, said robot being designed to exchange an exchangeable object with said turret and said exchangeable object loading station. 6. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said exchangeable object handling apparatus comprises a single robot to exchange an exchangeable object between said one of said supports and said exchangeable object loading station, said robot comprising said three or more end-effectors. 7. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said three or more end-effectors is independently movable in order to place one of said three or more end-effectors in a region which is vertically spaced apart from a region in which the other of said three or more end-effectors are placed. 8. The lithographic apparatus of claim 7, wherein said regions are planes. 9. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein each of said three or more end-effectors is independently movable in a direction substantially perpendicular to a support region of said support, said support region being defined by a support structure of the support, constructed to support an exchangeable object. 10. The lithographic apparatus of claim 9, wherein said support region is a plane. 11. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said lithographic apparatus comprises one or more further exchangeable object stations, with which said exchangeable object handling apparatus can exchange an exchangeable object. 12. The lithographic apparatus of claim 11, wherein said one or more further exchangeable object stations include a cleaning station, a buffer station or an inspection station. 13. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said exchangeable object is said patterning device and said one of said supports is said patterning device support. 14. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said exchangeable object is said substrate and said one of said supports is said substrate support. 15. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein said one of said supports is the patterning device support and is adapted to exchange the patterning device supported thereby with one on the exchangeable object loading station. 16. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an additional exchangeable object handling apparatus configured to exchange an exchangeable object with the other one of said supports wherein both said exchangeable object handling apparatus and said additional exchangeable object handling apparatus comprise three or more end-effectors each capable of exchanging an exchangeable object with the respective support. 17. A device manufacturing method comprising: patterning a beam of radiation with a patterning device to form a patterned beam of radiation, said patterning device being supported by a patterning device support; projecting the patterned beam of radiation onto a substrate placed on a substrate support, and exchanging an exchangeable object between one of said supports and a loading station using an exchangeable object handling apparatus comprising three or more end-effectors each capable of directly exchanging an exchangeable object with said one of said supports. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein said one of said supports is the patterning device support and exchanges the patterning device supported thereby with one on the exchangeable object loading station. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein said exchangeable object is said substrate and said one of said supports is said substrate support. 20. The lithographic apparatus of claim 1, wherein at least one of said three or more end-effectors is configured to move relative to the remaining of said three or more end-effectors along a direction that is substantially perpendicular to a support region of said support, said support region constructed to support the exchangeable object. 