Coded data for disposal on or in an interface surface associated with a product item, the coded data being indicative of an identity of the product item, such that the coded data distinguishes the product item from every other product item. The coded data is arranged in accordance with at least one layout having n-fold rotational symmetry about a center of rotation, where n is at least two. The layout also includes n identical sub-layouts rotated 1/n revolutions apart about the center of rotation, at least one sub-layout including rotation-indicating data that distinguishes that sub-layout from each other sub-layout.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. Coded data for disposal on or in an interface surface associated with a product item, the coded data being indicative of an identity of the product item, the coded data being arranged in accordance with at least one layout having n-fold rotational symmetry about a center of rotation, where n is at least two, the layout including n identical sub-layouts rotated 1/n revolutions apart about the center of rotation, at least one sub-layout including rotation-indicating data that distinguishes that sub-layout from each other sub-layout, wherein the coded data distinguishes the product item from every other product item. 2. The coded data of claim 1, wherein the coded data encodes product identity data indicative of the identity of the product item, and wherein the product identity data is encoded in at least one of: each of a number of layouts; and, each sub-layout of at least one layout. 3. The coded data of claim 2, wherein each sub-layout has at least one codeword formed from a number of data elements, each sub-layout defining the positions of the data elements within the layout, the sub-layouts being arranged such that at least one of: each data element has a unique position; the positions of the data elements of respective sub-layouts are interleaved. 4. The coded data of claim 2, wherein the coded data encodes product identity data indicative of the identity of the product item, and wherein the product identity data is encoded as at least one of: a number of fragments, each fragment being encoded in at least one codeword; and, at least one codeword. 5. The coded data of claim 1, wherein the coded data includes a number of codewords arranged in accordance with the at least one layout. 6. The coded data of claim 1, wherein the coded data is arranged in accordance with a plurality of layouts, the plurality of layouts being arranged in accordance with a super-layout such that the layouts are tiled over a substantial portion of the interface surface with a predetermined spacing between adjacent layouts in the super-layout. 7. The coded data of claim 1, wherein each layout has at least one of the following shapes: linear; square; rectangular; triangular; or hexagonal. 8. The coded data of claim 1, wherein the at least one layout includes at least one target feature used to determine at least one of: a position of the at least one layout; a perspective of the at least one layout with respect to a sensing device; and, a rotation of the at least one layout. 9. The coded data of claim 8, wherein each layout includes at least four target features and wherein the coded data includes a plurality of layouts, at least some target features being common to at least two layouts. 10. The coded data of claim 1, wherein the coded data includes a plurality of coded data portions disposed on or in the interface surface, each coded data portion being formed from at least one layout. 11. The coded data of claim 10, wherein the interface surface includes a number of regions, and wherein each region includes at least one coded data portion indicative of an identity of the region. 12. The coded data of claim 10, wherein each coded data portion is provided at a respective position on the interface surface, and wherein each coded data portion includes data that is indicative of the respective position. 13. The coded data of claim 1, wherein the coded data is indicative of at least one of: a UPC indicative of a class of products and a serial number indicative of the respective product item; and an EPC associated with the product item. 14. The coded data of claim 1, wherein the coded data is redundantly encoded using Reed-Solomon encoding. 15. The coded data of claim 1, wherein the coded data is provided on the interface surface coincident with visible markings representing at least one of: product information; and, the identity of the product item. 16. The coded data of claim 1, wherein the interface surface is at least a portion of at least one of: product item packaging; product item labelling; product manuals; product instructions; and, a surface of the product item. 17. The coded data of claim 1, wherein the coded data is disposed over at least one of: substantially all of any one of: an entire product surface; packaging; and, a product label; more than 25% of any one of: an entire product surface; packaging; and, a product label; more than 50% of any one of: an entire product surface; packaging; and, a product label; more than 75% of any one of: an entire product surface; packaging; and, a product label. 18. The coded data of claim 1, wherein, in use, the coded data is sensed by a sensing device, and wherein the sensing device is responsive to the sensed coded data to determine product identity data indicative of the product item identity. 19. The coded data of claim 1, wherein the coded data is provided at respective positions on the interface surface, and wherein the sensing device is responsive to sensing the coded data to determine position data indicative of at least one of: a position of the sensing device with respect to the interface surface; a position of the sensed coded data; an orientation of the sensed coded data portion; and, an orientation of the sensing device relative to the interface surface. 20. An interface surface for use with a product item, the coded data being indicative of an identity of the product item, the coded data being arranged in accordance with at least one layout having n-fold rotational symmetry about a center of rotation, where n is at least two, the layout including n identical sub-layouts rotated 1/n revolutions apart about the center of rotation, at least one sub-layout including rotation-indicating data that distinguishes that sub-layout from each other sub-layout, wherein the coded data distinguishes the product item from every other product item. 