A vehicle including a body and three legs. Each leg includes a proximal end coupled to the body, a distal end opposite the proximal end, and an actuator. Each actuator imparts enough acceleration to the vehicle along an axis of the leg to cause the distal end of the leg to leave a surface upon which it rests. Thus, the robot can pivot around one leg when the actuator of another leg imparts an acceleration. One actuator may also cause two legs to leave the surface. Moreover, the actuators may be spring biased into a retracted position. Further, the body may be a Platonic solid and the axes of the lags may pass through the vehicle's center of gravity. Of course, the body could be a sphere while the vehicle could be a planetary robot or a toy. Methods of traversing a surface are also provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A vehicle comprising: a body; and at least three legs; each leg including a proximal end coupled to the body, a distal end opposite the proximal end and being adapted to rest on a surface, a longitudinal axis extending along a direction between the proximal and distal ends, and an actuator adapted to impart an acceleration to the vehicle along the longitudinal axis of the leg that includes the actuator, the acceleration to be large enough to cause the distal end of the leg to leave the surface. 2. The vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising the at least three legs being configured and adapted in a manner so that when an actuator of a leg imparts an acceleration to the robot, the robot pivots about the distal end of at least one of the other legs. 3. The vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising the actuator being configured and adapted in a manner so that when an actuator of a leg imparts an acceleration to the robot, the distal end of at least one of the other legs leaves the surface. 4. The vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising a power source for the actuators. 5. The vehicle according to claim 4, wherein the power supply is an electric power supply. 6. The vehicle according to claim 4, wherein the power supply is a chemical power supply. 7. The vehicle according to claim 6, wherein the chemical power supply is a monopropellant power supply. 8. The vehicle according to claim 1, each actuator further comprising a spring biasing the actuator toward the proximal end of the leg that includes the actuator. 9. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the legs are located around the body in such a manner as to correspond to at least one of the faces or vertices of a Platonic solid. 10. The vehicle according to claim 9, wherein the number of legs equals the number of faces, the coupling of each leg to the body being at one of the faces. 11. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the body is a sphere. 12. The vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising being a robot. 13. The vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising being a toy. 14. The vehicle according to claim 1, the actuators further comprising being adapted and configured for one of terrestrial, lunar, or Martian gravity. 15. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the robot having a center of gravity, each of the longitudinal axis of the legs passing through the center of gravity. 16. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the at least three legs includes one of 4 legs, 6 legs, 8 legs, 12 legs, or 20 legs. 