A first guide rail (11), and a second guide rail (12) and a third guide rail (13) that are parallel to each other are installed on a base (2) so as to be perpendicular to each other, and these guide rails are rotated about shafts (4) installed on both ends. When the guide rails are rotated, an indication bar (3) installed on a rotor (1) is moved synchronously with the movement of the guide rails, so that the rotor (1) is also rotated. A slider (22) installed on the indication bar (3) slides along a slit (21) of the third guide rail (13). Then a rotation angle of the rotor (1) about the indication bar (3) is determined by the distance between the guide rails.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom comprising a rotor comprising a part or a whole of a sphere, an indication bar, at least one slider, at least one base, four shafts, six bearings, and three first to third guide rails, wherein said rotor includes said indication bar, said first guide rail is installed on said base by using two said shafts and two said bearings, said second guide rail and said third guide rail are installed on said base by using two remaining said shafts and four remaining said bearings, and at least one said slider is installed on or concatenated with said indication bar, moreover wherein said second guide rail rotates centering around two said shafts supporting said second guide rail, sliding said indication bar along said first guide rail, said first guide rail rotates centering around two said shafts supporting said first guide rail, sliding said indication bar along said second guide rail, and said rotor rotates centering around said indication bar, sliding at least one said slider along said third guide rail. 2. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 1, wherein said indication bar passes through slits, which are opened in at least one of said first guide rail and a second guide rail. 3. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 1, wherein a fourth guide rail is installed on said indication bar, and said slider slides along said fourth guide rail. 4. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 1, wherein said indication bar is a pipe, and at least one wire passes through said indication bar. 5. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 1, wherein all said shafts are installed on at least one said base so as to face with each other every two shafts. 6. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 1, wherein four said bearings are installed on at least one said base so as to face with each other every two shafts, two said shafts installed on a terminal of said second guide rail and said third guide rail are installed on two said bearings installed on said base, respectively, and two said bearings installed on another terminal of said second guide rail and said third guide rail are installed on said shafts of said third guide rail and said second guide rail, respectively. 7. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 1, wherein four said bearings are installed on at least one said base so as to face with each other every two shafts, two said shafts installed on both terminals of said second guide rail are installed on two said bearings installed on said base, respectively, and two said bearings installed on both terminal of said third guide rail are installed on said shafts of said second guide rail, respectively. 8. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 1, wherein at least one encoder detects a direction of said rotor, by detecting at least one rotation angle of said guide rails, said shafts and said bearings. 9. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 8, wherein at least one encoder detects said direction of said rotor, by concatenating it to at least one of said guide rails, said shafts and said bearings via plurality of gears. 10. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 8, wherein each of at least one said encoder comprises an actuator. 11. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 10, wherein a computer system rotates said rotor, by connecting at least one said actuator to said computer system. 12. An artificial eye comprising a rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 11, wherein a camera taking a picture in a direction opposite to said indication bar is embedded in said rotor. 13. An artificial eye according to claim 12, wherein an image rotates by that said computer system memorizes said image taken by said camera, and outputs each pixel of said image, exchanging an order of said pixels. 14. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 8, wherein a computer system calculates a rotation angle of said rotor, by connecting at least one said encoder to said computer system. 15. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 1, wherein at least one actuator rotates said rotor, by rotating at least one of said guide rails, said shafts and said bearings. 16. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 15, wherein at least one actuator rotates said rotor, by concatenating it to at least one of said guide rails, said shafts and said bearings via plurality of gears. 17. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom comprising a rotor comprising a part or a whole of a sphere, an indication bar, at least two sliders, at least one base, four shafts, six bearings, and three first to third guide rails, wherein said rotor comprises said indication bar, said first guide rail is installed on said base by using two said shafts and two said bearings, said second guide rail and said third guide rail are installed on said base by using two remaining said shafts and four remaining said bearings, and at least two said sliders are installed on or concatenated with said indication bar, moreover wherein each of said second guide rail and said third guide rail rotates centering around two said shafts supporting said second guide rail, sliding said indication bar along said first guide rail, said first guide rail rotates centering around two said shafts supporting said first guide rail, sliding at least two said sliders along said second guide rail and said third guide rail, and said rotor rotates centering around said indication bar, sliding at least two said sliders along said second guide rail and said third guide rail. 18. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 17, wherein said indication bar passes through a slit, which is opened in said first guide rail. 19. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 17, wherein a fourth guide rail and a fifth guide rail are installed on said indication bar, and two said sliders slide along these said guide rails, respectively. 20. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom comprising a rotor comprising a part or a whole of a sphere, an indication bar, at least two sliders, at least one base, four shafts, six bearings, and four first to third and sixth guide rails, wherein said rotor comprises said indication bar, said first guide rail and said sixth guide rail are installed on said base by using two said shafts and two said bearings, said second guide rail and said third guide rail are installed on said base by using two remaining said shafts and four remaining said bearings, and at least two said sliders are installed on or concatenated with said indication bar, moreover wherein each of said second guide rail and said third guide rail rotates centering around two said shafts supporting said second guide rail, sliding at least two said sliders along said first rail and said sixth guide rail, each of said first guide rail and said sixth guide rail rotates centering around two said shafts supporting said first guide rail, sliding at least two said sliders along said second guide rail and said third guide rail, and said rotor rotates centering around said indication bar, sliding at least two said sliders along said second guide rail and said third guide rail. 21. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 20, wherein at least two said sliders pass through slits, respectively, which are opened in said first guide rail and said sixth guide rail. 22. A rotation system with three degrees of freedom according to claim 20, wherein a fourth guide rail and a fifth guide rail are installed on said indication bar, and two said sliders slide along these said guide rails, respectively. 