A method is provided for planarization of structures which minimizes step heights, reduces process steps, improves cleanliness, and provides increased ease of debond. Structures are placed with working surfaces facing down onto an adhesive layer such that structures remain fixed during heating. A bi-layer encapsulating film is used to achieve planarization. A carrier is bi-laminated with a thermoplastic film layer followed by a chemically inert protective polymer film layer that can withstand etch and cleaning processes. The thermoplastic layer is laminated on top of the carrier; the polymer layer is laminated on top of the joined thermoplastic layer and carrier. The carrier with bi-layer film is then placed onto the backside of the structures to resist chemical attack from the front side during photostrip and enable planarization. When heat is applied, the bi-layer encapsulating film melts and pushes the polymer layer into the gaps between structures thereby achieving complete planarization.
Claims We claim: 1. A planarization method for a substrate having a first surface for etching and a second surface, the method yielding a slider having a patterned air-bearing surface, said method comprising: supporting a layer of adhesive film on a retaining device; positioning the substrate with said first surface against the adhesive film; providing an encapsulating film comprising a thermoplastic film layer and a protective film layer; applying the encapsulating film to the substrate, such that the protective layer of the encapsulating film contacts the second surface of the substrate; heating the encapsulating film to flow the film to fill a space on the adhesive film adjacent the first surface of the substrate with the protective layer of the encapsulating film to encapsulate the substrate; cooling the substrate and encapsulating film to harden encapsulating film; and removing the adhesive film from the first surface of said substrate expose the first surface of said substrate with adjacent protective layer of the encapsulating film as a planarized surface and to provide a surface pattern on the first surface. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the thermoplastic film layer fills the space on the adhesive film adjacent the first surface of the substrate on the opposite side of the protective film layer. 3. A planarization method for a structure having a first surface for etching and a second surface, said method comprising the steps of: supporting a layer of adhesive film on a retaining device; positioning a first surface of a plurality of sliders in a preset pattern on the adhesive film; providing a carrier device with an encapsulating film thereon, the encapsulating film comprising a thermoplastic layer and a protective layer; applying the encapsulating film to a second surface of each of the plurality of sliders; heating the encapsulating film to flow the film to form an encapsulant, the encapsulant filling spaces on the adhesive film between adjacent sliders of the plurality of sliders; hardening the encapsulant; removing the adhesive film to expose the first surface of the plurality of sliders; etching the first surface of the plurality of sliders and adjacent encapsulant to provide an air-bearing pattern; and debonding the plurality of sliders to provide a patterned air-bearing surface. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the protective film layer protects the thermoplastic film layer from being attacked by during a photostrip process. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the protective layer of the encapsulating film contacts the second surface of the plurality of sliders. 