An apparatus for forming elongated composite structural members with a desired cross-sectional geometry as taken transverse to the length of the member. The apparatus may include a base with a substantially elongated mandrel mounted thereon. One or more rollers configured to at least partially complementarily engage the mandrel are configured to roll over and press a plurality of plies of composite material onto the mandrel. The rollers may be configured to form intermediate structures which partially conform to the geometry of the mandrel prior to forming the final structure, which substantially completely conforms to the geometry of the mandrel. The rollers serve to both form and debulk the structure. The present invention enables the formation of elongated structural members from resin-impregnated materials while maintaining the materials in a substantially uncured state. The formed members may then be cocured with a skin or other composite structure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for forming elongated composite structural members comprising: a base; at least one mandrel mounted on the base, the at least one mandrel exhibiting a substantially elongated geometry; a carriage assembly movably coupled to the base; at least one roller exhibiting a geometry having a substantially continuously convex engagement surface as it rotates about an axis, the engagement surface being configured to at least partially complementarily engage the least one mandrel as the at least one roller rolls there along, the at least one roller being coupled with the carriage assembly; and at least one force-applying mechanism configured to apply a desired force to the at least one mandrel through the at least one roller. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller and carriage assembly are mutually configured for the at least one roller to be removed from the carriage assembly and replaced by another roller exhibiting a geometry configured to substantially completely complementarily engage the at least one mandrel. 3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller comprises a plurality of rollers coupled with the carriage assembly. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an automated material-dispensing device configured to dispense a plurality of plies of material over the at least one mandrel along a length thereof. 5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the automated material-dispensing device is configured to dispense the plurality of plies of material including a first ply exhibiting a first width and at least a second ply exhibiting a second width different than the first width. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller and the at least one mandrel are complementarily configured to form an elongated composite structural member substantially exhibiting a cross-sectional geometry of a hat as taken transversely to a length thereof. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller and the at least one mandrel are complementarily configured to form an elongated composite structural member substantially exhibiting a cross-sectional geometry of at least one C-shape as taken transversely to a length thereof. 8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller and the at least one mandrel are complementarily configured to form an elongated composite structural member substantially exhibiting a cross-sectional geometry of at least one angle as taken transversely to a length thereof. 9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller and the at least one mandrel are complementarily configured to form an elongated composite structural member substantially exhibiting a cross-sectional geometry including at least one arcuate section taken transversely to a length thereof. 10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one force-applying mechanism includes at least one weight operably coupled to the at least one roller to press the at least one roller over the at least one mandrel. 11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one force-applying mechanism includes a hydraulic system. 12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one force-applying mechanism includes a pneumatic system. 13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one mandrel includes a plurality of mandrels laterally spaced from one another. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one roller is configured to move laterally with respect to a length of the substantially elongated geometry of the at least one mandrel and independently engage each of the plurality of mandrels. 15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one roller includes a plurality of rollers, and wherein at least one roller of the plurality of rollers engages each of the plurality of mandrels. 16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the plurality of mandrels includes a first mandrel exhibiting a first geometric configuration and a second mandrel exhibiting a second geometric different from the first geometric configuration. 17. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a heating device configured and oriented to heat at least a portion of any material disposed over the at least one mandrel. 18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the heating device is coupled with the carriage assembly. 19. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a heating device configured and located to heat the at least one mandrel. 20. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a controller operably coupled with the apparatus and configured to control movement of the carriage assembly relative to the base about a plurality of axes. 21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the controller is further configured to control operation of the at least one force-applying mechanism. 22. The apparatus of claim 21, further comprising an automated material-dispensing device configured to dispense a plurality of plies of material over the at least one mandrel along a length thereof, and a heating device configured and located to provide heat to at least one of the plurality of plies and the at least one mandrel, and wherein the controller is configured to control operation of the automated material-dispensing device and the heating device. 23. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the controller includes a processor, a memory device, at least one input device and at least one output device. 24. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one mandrel includes a first section extending along a longitudinal axis and a second section which deviates from the longitudinal axis, and wherein the carriage assembly and the at least one roller are configured to maintain engagement with the second section as it deviates from the longitudinal axis. 25. The apparatus of claim 24, wherein the at least one roller is configured to remain substantially continuously engaged with the at least one mandrel as it moves relative to the base over the first mandrel section and the second mandrel section. 26. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the plurality of rollers includes a first roller configured to engage a first portion of the at least one mandrel and at least a second roller configured to engage a second portion of the at least one mandrel, the first portion of the at least one mandrel being substantially different than the second portion of the at least one mandrel. 27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the first roller is engaged with the first portion of the at least one mandrel and the at least a second roller is engaged with the second portion of the at least one mandrel substantially simultaneously. 28. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the first roller and the at least a second roller are configured to engage the at least one mandrel in a sequential manner. 29. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the at least one mandrel exhibits a cross-sectional geometry taken substantially transverse to a length thereof, and wherein the plurality of rollers includes a first roller configured to engage a portion of the at least one mandrel at a first location with respect to the cross-sectional geometry and at least a second roller configured to engage another portion of the at least one mandrel at a second location with respect to the cross-sectional geometry, the first location be substantially different than the second location. 30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the first roller and the at least a second roller are engaged with the at least one mandrel substantially simultaneously. 31. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the first roller and the at least a second roller are configured to engage the at least one mandrel in a sequential manner. 32. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the carriage assembly is movably coupled to the base such that it displaces the at least one roller in a longitudinal direction with respect to the substantially elongated geometry of the at least one mandrel. 33. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one roller is configured to move laterally with respect to a length of the substantially elongated geometry of the at least one mandrel while maintaining engagement with the at least one mandrel as the at least one roller is displaced in a direction along the length of the substantially elongated geometry of the at least one mandrel. 34. An apparatus for forming elongated composite structural members comprising: a base; at least one mandrel mounted on the base, the at least one mandrel exhibiting a substantially elongated geometry; a carriage assembly movably coupled to the base; a plurality of rollers, each roller of the plurality exhibiting a geometry configured to at least partially complementarily engage the least one mandrel as each roller of the plurality of rollers rolls there along, each roller of the plurality being coupled with the carriage assembly, wherein the plurality of rollers includes a first roller configured to engage a first portion of the mandrel and at least a second roller configured to engage a second portion of the mandrel, the first portion of the mandrel being substantially different than the second portion of the mandrel; and at least one force-applying mechanism configured to apply a desired force to the at least one mandrel through the plurality of rollers. 35. An apparatus for forming elongated composite structural members comprising: a base; at least one mandrel mounted on the base, the at least one mandrel exhibiting a substantially elongated geometry and a cross-sectional geometry taken substantially transverse to a length thereof; a carriage assembly movably coupled to the base; a plurality of rollers, each roller of the plurality exhibiting a geometry configured to at least partially complementarily engage the least one mandrel as each roller of the plurality of rollers rolls there along, each roller of the plurality being coupled with the carriage assembly, wherein the plurality of rollers includes a first roller configured to engage a portion of the at least one mandrel at a first location with respect to the cross-sectional geometry and at least a second roller configured to engage another portion of the at least one mandrel at a second location with respect to the cross-sectional geometry, the first location being substantially different than the second location; and at least one force-applying mechanism configured to apply a desired force to the at least one mandrel through the plurality of rollers. 36. An apparatus for forming elongated composite structural members comprising: a base; at least one mandrel mounted on the base, the at least one mandrel exhibiting a substantially elongated geometry; a carriage assembly movably coupled to the base; at least one roller exhibiting a geometry configured to at least partially complementarily engage the least one mandrel as the at least one roller rolls there along, the at least one roller being coupled with the carriage assembly, wherein the carriage assembly is movably coupled to the base such that it displaces the at least one roller in a longitudinal direction with respect to the substantially elongated geometry of the at least one mandrel; and at least one force-applying mechanism configured to apply a desired force to the at least one mandrel through the at least one roller. 37. An apparatus for forming elongated composite structural members comprising: a base; at least one mandrel mounted on the base, the at least one mandrel exhibiting a substantially elongated geometry; a carriage assembly movably coupled to the base; at least one roller exhibiting a geometry configured to at least partially complementarily engage the least one mandrel as the at least one roller rolls there along, the at least one roller being coupled with the carriage assembly, wherein the at least one roller is configured to move laterally with respect to a length of the substantially elongated geometry of the at least one mandrel while maintaining engagement with the at least one mandrel as the at least one roller is displaced in a direction along the length of the substantially elongated geometry of the at least one mandrel; and at least one force-applying mechanism configured to apply a desired force to the at least one mandrel through the at least one roller. 38. An apparatus for forming elongated composite structural members comprising: a base; a first mandrel mounted on the base, the first mandrel exhibiting a first geometric configuration; a second mandrel mounted on the base, the second mandrel exhibiting a second geometric configuration different from the first geometric configuration; a carriage assembly movably coupled to the base; at least one roller exhibiting a geometry configured to at least partially complementarily engage at least one of the first mandrel and the second mandrel as the at least one roller rolls there along, the at least one roller being coupled with the carriage assembly; and at least one force-applying mechanism configured to apply a desired force to at least one of the first mandrel and the second mandrel through the at least one roller. 39. An apparatus forming elongated composite structural members comprising: a base; at least one mandrel mounted on the base, the at least one mandrel exhibiting a substantially elongated geometry, the at least one mandrel including a first section extending along a longitudinal axis and a second section which deviates from the longitudinal axis; a carriage assembly movably coupled to the base; at least one roller exhibiting a geometry configured to at least partially complementarily engage the least one mandrel as the at least one roller rolls there along, the at least one roller being coupled with the carriage assembly, wherein the carriage assembly and the at least one roller are configured to maintain engagement with the second section as it deviates from the longitudinal axis; and at least one force-applying mechanism configured to apply a desired force to the at least one mandrel through the at least one roller. 