Molecular memories, i.e., memories that incorporate molecules for charge storage, are disclosed. Molecular memory cells, molecular memory arrays, and electronic devices including molecular memory are also disclosed, as are processing systems and methods for manufacturing molecular memories. Methods of manufacturing molecular memories that enable semiconductor devices and interconnections to be manufactured monolithically with molecular memory are also disclosed.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method, comprising on a partially fabricated semiconductor wafer, making an array of molecular storage devices by: forming an array of working electrodes; forming one or more auxiliary counter electrodes for the array of molecular storage devices; attaching storage molecules to the working electrodes; forming one or more electrolytes for the array of molecular storage devices; and forming one or more counter electrodes for the array of molecular storage devices. 2. The method of claim 1, comprising attaching redox-active molecules to the one or more auxiliary counter electrodes. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the forming of the one or more counter electrodes is done in a manner that reduces or eliminates exposure of the redox-active molecules to radiation that would decompose the molecules. 4. A method, comprising: physically depositing redox-active molecules on the surface of a partially fabricated semiconductor wafer in a first processing ambient; monitoring water and oxygen gases in the first processing ambient; chemically attaching some of the redox-active molecules to a plurality of working electrode surfaces on the wafer in a second processing ambient; monitoring water and oxygen gases in the second processing ambient; removing chemically unattached redox-active molecules from the wafer; forming an electrolyte on the wafer; and depositing a conductor on the electrolyte. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein at least some of the attached redox-active molecules are in one or more chemisorbed layers. 6. The method of claim 4, wherein the depositing of the conductor on the electrolyte is done in a manner that reduces or eliminates exposure of the redox-active molecules to radiation that would decompose the molecules. 