The present invention is a wafer transfer system that transports individual wafers between chambers within an isolated environment. In one embodiment, a wafer is transported by a wafer shuttle that travel within a transport enclosure. The interior of the transport enclosure is isolated from the atmospheric conditions of the surrounding wafer fabrication facility. Thus, an individual wafer may be transported throughout the wafer fabrication facility without having to maintain a clean room environment for the entire facility. The wafer shuttle may be propelled by various technologies, such as, but not limited to, magnetic levitation or air bearings. The wafer shuttle may also transport more than one wafer simultaneously. The interior of the transport enclosure may also be under vacuum, gas-filled, or subject to filtered air.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A water transport system, comprising: a wafer transport enclosure having a first interior side wall and a second interior side wall opposed to said first interior side wall, said wafer transport enclosure connected to a first chamber through a first transition chamber and a second chamber through a second transition chamber, wherein the first transition chamber and the second transition chamber are constructed to provide environmental isolation to the first chamber and the second chamber respectively; a first lift magnet rail located along said first interior side wall; a second lift magnet rail located along said second interior side wall; a transport shuttle having at least one propulsion magnet and a plurality of support magnets adapted to magnetically couple with said first lift magnet rail and said second lift magnet rail to keep the transport shuttle suspended in the wafer transport enclosure through a magnetic repulsion force among the plurality of support magnets, the first lift magnet rail, and the second lift magnet rail; and a propulsion coil located along at least a portion of said first interior side wall of said wafer transport enclosure and adapted to magnetically couple with said one or more propulsion magnets in the transport shuttle, said propulsion coil for driving said transport shuttle between said first chamber and said second chamber along said first lift magnet rail and said second lift magnet rail. 2. The wafer transport system according to claim 1, wherein said transport shuttle supports a wafer in a substantially horizontal orientation. 3. The wafer transport system according to claim 1, wherein said first lift magnet rail and said second lift magnet rail are each substantially linear rails. 4. The wafer transport system according to claim 1, wherein said lift magnet rails are substantially horizontal. 5. The wafer transport system according to claim 1, wherein said propulsion coil is located proximate to said first lift magnet rail. 6. The wafer transport system according to claim 1, wherein said transport shuttle supports a wafer in a substantially vertical orientation. 7. The wafer transport system according to claim 1, further including: a third lift magnet rail located along said first interior side wall of said first wafer transport enclosure and said second wafer transport enclosure; a fourth lift magnet rail located along said second interior side wall of said first wafer transport enclosure and said second wafer transport enclosure; and said third and fourth lift magnet rails are located at a higher elevation along said first and second interior side walls than said first and second lift magnet rails. 8. The wafer transport system according to claim 7, further including a second propulsion coil located proximate to said third lift magnet rail. 9. The wafer transport system according to claim 8, further including a lower transport shuttle adapted to move between said first chamber and said second chamber along said third and fourth lift magnet rails. 10. A wafer transport system, comprising: a first wafer transport enclosure having a first interior side wall and an opposed second interior side wall; a second wafer transport enclosure having a first interior side wall and an opposed second interior side wall, said second wafer transport enclosure connected to said first wafer transport enclosure; a first lift magnet rail located along said first and second interior side walls of said first wafer transport enclosure and said second wafer transport enclosure, said first lift magnet rail located at a first elevation; a second lift magnet rail located along said first and second interior side walls of said first wafer transport enclosure and said second wafer transport enclosure, said second liftmagnet rail located at a second elevation being higher along said first interior side wall and said second interior side wall than said first lift magnet rail; an upper shuttle having support magnets for magnetically coupling with said first lift magnet rail and a propulsion magnet; a lower shuttle having support magnets for magnetically coupling with said second lift magnet rail and a propulsion magnet; a first plurality of propulsion coils intermittently located along said first interior side wall of said first wafer transport enclosure and said second wafer transport enclosure for driving said upper shuttle along said first lift magnet rail between said first wafer transport enclosure and said second wafer transport enclosure; and a second plurality of propulsion coils intermittently located along said second interior side wall of said first wafer transport enclosure and said second wafer transport enclosure for driving said lower shuttle along said second lift magnet rail between said first wafer transport enclosure and said second wafer transport enclosure. 11. The wafer transport system according to claim 10, wherein said first and second lift magnet rails each comprise a substantially linear rail. 12. The wafer transport system according to claim 10, wherein said first lift magnet rail and said second lift magnet rail are embedded into said first interior side wall and said second interior side wall of said first wafer transport enclosure and said second wafer transport enclosure. 13. The wafer transport system according to claim 10, wherein each one of said first plurality of propulsion coils is located proximate to said first lift magnet rail. 14. The wafer transport system according to claim 13, wherein each one of said first plurality of propulsion coils is located above said first lift magnet rail. 15. The wafer transport system according to claim 10, wherein said first shuttle supports the wafer in a substantially horizontal orientation. 16. The wafer transport system according to claim 10, wherein said first shuttle supports the wafer in a substantially vertical orientation. 