A centrifugal device comprising: a rotor having a rotor shaft having a longitudinal rotor axis; a holder having an access end, and a holder axis; a location mechanism for locating the holder within the centrifugal device, such that the holder is rotatable about the rotor axis, with the holder axis forming a non-zero angle with the rotor shaft axis, the location mechanism accurately locating the access end of the holder within the centrifugal device, wherein the location mechanism comprises a holding pin having an axis that is substantially perpendicular to the rotor axis, the holding pin being rotatable about the rotor axis.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A centrifugal device comprising: a rotor having a rotor shaft having a longitudinal rotor axis; a holder having an access end, and a holder axis; location means for locating the holder within the centrifugal device, such that the holder is rotatable about the rotor axis, with the holder axis forming a non-zero angle with the rotor shaft axis, the location means accurately locating the access end of the holder within the centrifugal device, wherein: the location means comprises a holding pin having an axis that is substantially perpendicular to the rotor axis, the holding pin being rotatable about the rotor axis; and the holder having a holder radius, the axis of the holding pin being spaced apart from the rotor axis by a distance that is less than the holder radius. 2. A centrifugal device according to claim 1 comprising two holding pins, which holding pins are coaxial with one another. 3. A centrifugal device according to claim 2 wherein the holder comprises one or more recesses engageable with the or each holding pin. 4. A centrifugal device according to claim 2, or any claim dependent thereon wherein the two holding pins are positioned diametrically opposite each other. 5. A centrifugal device according to claim 1 wherein the or each holding pin extends from the holder, and is positioned towards the access end of the holder. 6. A centrifugal device according to claim 1 wherein the or each holding pin extends from the rotor. 7. A centrifugal device according to claim 1 further comprising grounding means for electrically grounding the holder. 8. A centrifugal device according to claim 7 wherein the grounding means electrically grounds the holder by connecting the holder to ground via the location means. 9. A centrifugal device according to claim 1, further comprising absorption means for absorbing vibration created during use of the device. 10. A centrifugal device according to claim 9 wherein the absorption means comprises one or more rubber components. 11. A centrifugal device according to claim 1 wherein the holder has a rest position in which the holder axis is substantially parallel with the rotor axis, and a swing position in which the holder axis forms a non-zero angle with the rotor axis, the device further comprising a first swing stop pin for limiting the non-zero angle of the swing position. 12. A centrifugal device as claimed in claim 11 further comprising a second swing stop pin. 13. A centrifugal device as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a rest stop for preventing rotation of the holder about the holding pin in one direction. 14. A centrifugal device as claimed in claim 1 further comprising guide means for guiding the holding pin from a first, rest position, to a second, swing position, such that when the holding pin is in the second position it is spaced apart from and substantially parallel to the location of the holding pin when in the first position. 15. A centrifugal device as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a balance. 16. A centrifugal device as claimed in claim 15 further comprising a balance stop pin. 17. A centrifugal device as claimed in claim 16 further comprising a balance rest stop pin. 18. A centrifugal device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the holder comprises a tube. 19. A centrifugal device as claimed in claim 1 wherein the holder comprises a bucket. 20. A robot platform comprising a centrifugal device according to claim 1. 21. Apparatus for filling a container with a material, the apparatus comprising: a robotic pipette; a robot platform according to claim 20. 22. A method of transferring a sample of material into a container using the apparatus of claim 21, wherein the container is located within the holder, comprising the steps of: loading a pipette with the material; moving the pipette to the container; and dispensing the material into the container. 