Antisense compounds, compositions and methods are provided for modulating the expression of C-reactive protein. The compositions comprise antisense compounds, particularly antisense oligonucleotides, targeted to nucleic acids encoding C-reactive protein. Methods of using these compounds for modulation of C-reactive protein expression and for treatment of diseases associated with expression of C-reactive protein are provided.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An antisense compound 12-30 nucleobases in length that is 100% complementary to a portion of nucleobases 1918-2480 of SEQ ID NO: 3. 2. The antisense compound of claim 1 which is an antisense oligonucleotide. 3. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified internucleoside linkage. 4. The antisense compound of claim 3 wherein the modified internucleoside linkage is a phosphorothioate linkage. 5. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified sugar moiety. 6. The antisense compound of claim 5 wherein the modified sugar moiety is a 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moiety. 7. The antisense compound of claim 2 wherein the antisense oligonucleotide comprises at least one modified nucleobase. 8. The antisense compound of claim 7 wherein the modified nucleobase is a 5-methylcytosine. 9. The antisense compound of claim 2, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is a chimeric antisense oligonucleotide. 10. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the antisense oligonucleotide of claim 2 and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. 11. The antisense compound of claim 2, wherein the antisense oligonucleotide is 20 nucleobases in length. 12. The chimeric antisense oligonucleotide of claim 9 comprising a gap segment of at least ten 2'-deoxynucleotides positioned between 5' and 3' wing segments. 13. The chimeric antisense oligonucleotide of claim 12, wherein said gap segment is ten nucleotides in length and each of said 5' and 3' wing segments is five nucleotides in length. 14. The chimeric antisense oligonucleotide of claim 13, wherein said wing segments are comprised of nucleotides having 2'-O-methoxyethyl sugar moieties. 15. The chimeric antisense oligonucleotide of claim 14, wherein each internucleoside linkage comprises a phosphorothioate internucleoside linkage. 16. The chimeric antisense oligonucleotide of claim 15, wherein each cytosine is a 5-methylcytosine. 