A method and apparatus for determining forces to be applied to a user through a haptic interface. The method includes the steps of generating a representation of an object in graphic space, sensing the position of the user in real space and calculating a force to be applied to a user in response to the user's haptic interface and the user's fiducial object. The user's fiducial object represents the location in graphic space at which the user's haptic interface would be located if the haptic interface could not penetrate the surfaces of virtual objects.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for determining forces to be applied to a user through a haptic interface, the method comprising the steps of: generating a representation of a virtual object in graphic space; determining a haptic interface location in graphic space in response to a location of a user-manipulated haptic interface in real space, wherein the haptic interface can penetrate a surface of the virtual object in graphic space; determining a fiducial object location in graphic space on the surface of the virtual object, wherein the fiducial object location represents a location the haptic interface would occupy if the haptic interface could not penetrate the surface of the virtual object; and calculating a force to be applied to the user in response to the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the haptic interface is represented by a single point and the fiducial object is represented by a single point. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the fiducial object is represented as a three dimensional object. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the three dimensional object is approximated by a series of points. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the fiducial object is represented as a three dimensional object, the three dimensional object is approximated by a series of points, and the haptic interface location is a single point. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining the fiducial object location comprises the steps of: generating a representation of a virtual object within a computer; and computing the fiducial object location, such that the distance between the fiducial object location and the haptic interface location is minimized while maintaining that the fiducial object not pass through the virtual object. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the geometric representation of the virtual object is generated from a standard computer graphic file format. 8. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of calculating a reaction force to send to the user, wherein the reaction force depends on a distance between the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location. 9. The method of claim 8, wherein the reaction force is proportional to the distance. 10. The method of claim 8, wherein the step of calculating the reaction force involves calculating a component of the reaction force which depends on a difference in velocity between the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location. 11. The method of claim 10, wherein the component of the reaction force which depends on the difference in velocity between the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location is proportional to the difference in velocity. 12. The method of claim 6, further comprising the step of displaying a representation of the fiducial object on a display in a location relative to the virtual object location. 13. The method of claim 12, wherein the fiducial object location is different from the haptic interface location. 14. The method of claim 12, wherein the fiducial object is substantially co-located with the haptic interface location. 15. The method of claim 6, wherein the method is performed iteratively until a valid fiducial object location is found. 16. The method of claim 15, wherein multiple surfaces of at least one virtual object are considered in calculating a valid fiducial object location. 17. The method of claim 6, wherein the virtual object deforms in response to force applied to the virtual object by the user. 18. The method of claim 17, wherein the applied force comprises at least one of a damping force, a stiffness force, and a friction force. 19. The method of claim 17, wherein the applied force comprises at least two of a damping force, a stiffness force, and a friction force. 20. The method of claim 17, wherein the applied force comprises a damping force, a stiffness force, and a friction force. 21. A system for determining force to be applied to a user through a haptic interface, the system comprising: a modeling module that generates a representation of a virtual object in graphic space; a computation module that determines a haptic interface location in graphic space in response to a location of a user-manipulated haptic interface in real space, wherein the haptic interface can penetrate a surface of the virtual object in graphic space; a locating module that determines a fiducial object location in graphic space on the surface of the virtual object, wherein the fiducial object location represents a location the haptic interface would occupy if the haptic interface could not penetrate the surface of the virtual object; and a force computation module that calculates a force to be applied to the user in response to the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location. 22. The system of claim 21, further comprising: a simulation module that computes the fiducial object location such that distance between the fiducial object location and the haptic interface location is minimized while maintaining a condition that the fiducial object not pass through the virtual object. 23. The system of claim 22, further comprising a display module that displays a representation of the fiducial object on a display in a location relative to the virtual object location. 24. The system of claim 21, wherein the haptic interface is represented by a single point and the fiducial object is represented by a single point. 25. The system of claim 21, wherein the fiducial object is represented as a three dimensional object. 26. The system of claim 25, wherein the three dimensional object is approximated by a series of points. 27. The system of claim 21, wherein the fiducial object is represented as a three dimensional object, the three dimensional object is approximated by a series of points, and the haptic interface location is a single point. 28. The system of claim 21, further comprising: a generation module that generates a representation of a virtual object within a computer; and a displacement module that computes the fiducial object location such that distance between the fiducial object location and the haptic interface location is minimized while maintaining a condition that the fiducial object not pass through the virtual object. 29. The system of claim 21, wherein a geometric representation of the virtual object is generated from a standard computer graphic file format. 30. The system of claim 21, further comprising a module that calculates a reaction force to apply to the user wherein the reaction force depends on distance between the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location. 31. The system of claim 30, wherein the reaction force is proportional to the distance. 32. The system of claim 30, wherein the module that calculates the reaction force calculates a component of the reaction force which depends on a difference in velocity between the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location. 33. The system of claim 32, wherein the component of the reaction force which depends on the difference in velocity between the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location is proportional to the difference in velocity. 34. The system of claim 21, further comprising a display for displaying a representation of the fiducial object on the display in a location relative to the virtual object location. 35. The system of claim 34, wherein the fiducial object location is different from the haptic interface location. 36. The system of claim 34, wherein the fiducial object is substantially co-located with the haptic interface location. 37. The system of claim 21, further comprising a controller module that causes the locating module to iterate until a valid fiducial object location is found. 38. The system of claim 37, wherein the locating module considers multiple surfaces of one or more virtual objects in calculating a valid fiducial object location. 39. The system of claim 21, wherein the virtual object is adapted to deform in response to force applied to the virtual object by the user. 40. The system of claim 39, wherein the applied force comprises at least one of a damping force, a stiffness force, and a friction force. 41. The system of claim 39, wherein the applied force comprises at least two of a damping force, a stiffness force, and a friction force. 42. The system of claim 39, wherein the applied force comprises a damping force, a stiffness force, and a friction force. 43. A method for determining forces to be applied to a user through a haptic interface, the method comprising the steps of: (a) generating a representation of an object in graphic space by defining the object as a mesh of planar surfaces, each of the planar surfaces comprising nodes; (b) sensing a location of a user in real space; (c) determining a haptic interface location in graphic space in response to the location of the user in real space; (d) determining a fiducial object location on the surface of the object in graphic space; (e) calculating a stiffness force to be applied to the user in real space in response to the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location in graphic space; and (f) calculating a magnitude of a damping force to be applied to the user in real space in response to the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location in graphic space, further comprising the steps of: (i) associating a damping coefficient with each of the nodes of each of the planar surfaces; (ii) determining on which of the planar surfaces the fiducial object is located; and (iii) computing a damping coefficient of the fiducial object location by interpolating the damping coefficients associated with the nodes of each of the planar surfaces on which the fiducial object is located. 44. A method for determining forces to be applied to a user through a haptic interface, the method comprising the steps of: (a) generating a representation of an object in graphic space by defining the object as a mesh of planar surfaces, each of the planar surfaces comprising nodes; (b) sensing a location of a user in real space; (c) determining a haptic interface location in graphic space in response to the location of the user in real space; (d) determining a fiducial object location on the surface of the object in graphic space; (e) calculating a stiffness force to be applied to the user in real space in response to the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location in graphic space; and (f) calculating a direction of a damping force to be applied to the user in real space in response to the haptic interface location and the fiducial object location in graphic space, further comprising the steps of: (i) associating a surface normal with each of the nodes of each of the planar surfaces; (ii) determining on which of the planar surfaces the fiducial object is located; and (iii) computing a surface normal for the fiducial object location by interpolating the surface normals associated with the nodes of each of the planar surfaces on which the fiducial object is located. 