Methods and apparatuses are provided for analyzing energy consumption of at least one storage system capable of being used by multiple users. The storage system includes a plurality of electric energy consuming components which further includes at least a plurality of storage devices adapted to cooperate with storage media for storing data. At least one component energy meter is capable of measuring component energy consumption of at least one of the electric energy consuming components while the storage system is in operational use. At least one storage system energy meter is adapted to cooperate with the storage system to measure total energy consumption of the storage system while the storage system is in operational use.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage system comprising: a plurality of electric energy consuming components; the electric energy consuming components comprising at least a plurality of storage devices adapted to cooperate with storage media for storing data; the storage system comprising a total user storage capacity for the storage system; at least one component energy meter capable of measuring component energy consumption of at least one of the electric energy consuming components while the storage system is in operational use; at least one storage system energy meter adapted to cooperate with the storage system to measure total energy consumption of the storage system while the storage system is in operational use. 2. The storage system of claim 1 wherein each of the electric energy consuming components cooperates with a dedicated component energy meter. 3. The storage system of claim 1 further comprising at least one robotic system adapted to move the storage media within the storage system wherein the robotic system is capable of cooperating with one of the component energy meters for measuring energy consumption of the robotic system. 4. The storage system of claim 1 wherein the total user storage capacity is divided into at least two partitions wherein each of the partitions is capable of being monitored for partition energy consumption. 5. The storage system of claim 4 further comprising an algorithm for accounting energy usage for each partition. 6. The storage system of claim 4 wherein the partition energy consumption is monitored from the at least one component energy meter cooperating with the at least one energy consuming component associated with the partition. 7. The storage system of claim 6 wherein the energy consuming component is temporarily associated with the partition. 8. The storage system of claim 7 wherein the partition energy consumption is further monitored from overhead energy consumed proportional to the divided total capacity of the partition as measured by the storage system energy meter. 9. The storage system of claim 1 wherein the energy consuming component comprises the component energy meter. 10. The storage system of claim 1 wherein the storage device is from the group comprising: flash memory system, magnetic disc drive, disc drive magazine, magneto-optical drive, tape drive, and floppy disc drive. 11. The storage system of claim 1 wherein the storage media is media from the group comprising: digital magnetic floppy disc, digital compact disc, digital flash memory device, digital tape cassette, digital optical disc, and digital tape magazine element. 12. A method for monitoring energy consumption of a storage system comprising: measuring at least total storage system energy consumption of the storage system while the storage system is in operational use wherein the storage system comprises a plurality of energy consuming components; performing an energy usage analysis of the total energy consumption over a period of time; and compiling a viewable report of said energy usage analysis. 13. The method of claim 12 further comprising monitoring component energy consumption of at least one electric energy consuming component comprised by the storage system while the storage system is in operational use and providing the energy usage analysis for the component energy consumption over a period of time. 14. The method of claim 12 further comprising partitioning the storage system into at least two fractions comprising a total user storage capacity of the storage system and monitoring partition energy consumption by the partition. 15. The method of claim 14 wherein the monitoring is accomplished with at least one component energy meter cooperating with the at least one electrical energy consuming component. 16. The method of claim 15 wherein the monitoring is further comprises overhead energy consumed proportionally by the partition. 17. An energy monitoring storage system comprising: a plurality of electric energy consuming components; the electric energy consuming components comprising at least a plurality of storage devices adapted to cooperate with storage media for storing data; the storage media comprising a total user storage capacity for the storage system; at least one storage system energy meter adapted to cooperate with the storage system to measure total energy consumption of the storage system while the storage system is in operational use; the total user storage capacity capable of being divided into at least two partitions wherein each of the partitions is capable of being monitored for partition energy consumption. 18. The storage system of claim 17 wherein the partition energy consumption is monitored from overhead energy consumed proportionally by the partition plus an increase in the total energy use over a period of time in which the partition is active as measured by the storage system energy meter. 19. The storage system of claim 18 further comprising an accounting algorithm capable of accounting the partition energy consumption by monitoring an increase in the total storage system energy consumption in addition to adding a proportion of a total overhead energy consumed by the partition. 20. A means for monitoring energy consumption of a storage system comprising: a means for measuring component energy consumption of at least one electric energy consuming component comprised by the storage system while the storage system is in operational use; a means for measuring total storage system energy consumption of the storage system while the storage system is in operational use; a means for partitioning the storage system into at least two fractions comprising a total user storage capacity of the storage system; a means for monitoring partition energy consumption by the partition; a means for providing an energy usage analysis of the at least one of the partition over a period of time. 21. The means of claim 20 wherein the energy usage analysis providing means can done with multiple partitions coincidentally. 22. A method for allocating energy consumption costs to each respective user of a partitioned data storage system comprising the steps of: calculating an overhead energy cost associated with each respective user's data partition; monitoring the actual energy consumption associated with each respective user's data partition, and calculating an actual energy consumption cost based thereon; summing the overhead energy cost with the actual energy consumption cost to calculate an allocated energy cost for the each respective user; and presenting the allocated energy coast in a viewable format to each of the respective users. 