A milking device and method for removing a teat cup from a teat of an animal are disclosed. The teat cup has a teat space for containing a teat and is connected via a milk tube to a vacuum source for generating a milking vacuum. A drawing-away device is provided for drawing the teat cup away from the animal only after a vacuum-lowering device has lowered the milking vacuum in the teat space below a threshold value. The level of vacuum may be measured by means of a vacuum sensor.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of disconnecting a teat cup from a teat of an animal, the teat cup having a teat space connected to a vacuum source via a milk tube for applying a vacuum to the teat space, the teat space and the milk tube forming a milking space, the method comprising successively: reducing the vacuum in the teat space; determining when a vacuum level in the milking space has come below a threshold value; and disconnecting the teat cup from the teat by activating a drawing-away device to actively draw away the teat cup only after the vacuum level in the milking space has come below the threshold value. 2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the vacuum level is measured in a part of the milking space. 3. The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the part of the milking space is the teat space. 4. The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the part of the milking space is the milk tube. 5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the threshold value depends on a vacuum level prior to reducing the vacuum in the teat space. 6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein disconnection follows after the vacuum level has been below the threshold value for longer than a predetermined time. 7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein disconnection is performed automatically with the aid of a robot. 8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the animal itself is enabled to carry out at least partially the disconnection by making a movement. 9. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the threshold value is adjustable per animal or per group of animals. 10. The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the animal is identified automatically. 11. The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein the speed at which the vacuum level is reduced is adjustable per animal or per group of animals. 12. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the vacuum level is reduced by admitting inlet air into a part of the milking space. 13. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the inlet air is admitted via a separate air line. 14. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the inlet air is conditioned prior to being admitted. 15. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the vacuum level is lowered by shutting off the milk tube or the teat space from the vacuum source. 16. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the drawing away takes place while exerting an increasing drawing force. 17. A milking device for performing the method according to claim 1 comprising: at least one teat cup for connecting to a teat of an animal, the teat cup comprising a teat space for containing the teat; a milk tube connecting the teat space to a vacuum source, the teat space and the milk tube forming a milking space; a drawing-away device for drawing away the teat cup from the animal; a vacuum-lowering device for lowering the milking vacuum in the teat space; a vacuum sensor for measuring the vacuum level in the milking space and emitting a vacuum signal when the vacuum level in the milking space has been lowered below a threshold value; and a computing device, responsive to the vacuum signal, and activating the drawing-away device to actively draw away the teat cup from the animal. 18. The milking device as claimed in claim 17, wherein the milking device comprises a counter for registering a time elapsed since the vacuum level has come below the threshold value, and in tat the drawing-away device is capable of being activated by the counter. 19. The milking device as claimed in claim 17, wherein the milking device further comprises an automatic animal recognition device for emitting an animal recognition signal, and in that the threshold value is adjustable on the basis of the animal recognition signal. 20. The milking device as claimed in claim 19, wherein the vacuum-lowering device is suitable for controlling the speed at which the milking vacuum is lowered, and in that the speed is controllable by the animal recognition signal. 21. The milking device as claimed in claim 17, wherein there is further provided an air inlet for admitting inlet air into a part of the milking space. 22. The milking device as claimed in claim 21, wherein the air inlet comprises a separate air line that communicates with the milking space. 23. The milking device as claimed in claim 22, wherein the air line is connectable to a conditioning device for conditioning the inlet air. 24. The milking device as claimed in claim 21, wherein the part of the milking space is the teat space. 25. The milking device as claimed in claim 21, wherein the part of the milking space is the milk tube. 26. The milking device as claimed in claim 21, wherein the milking space comprises a valve for shutting off the connection with the vacuum source. 27. The milking device as claimed in claim 17, wherein the drawing-away device is controllable to draw away the teat cup while exerting an increasing withdrawing force. 28. The milking device as claimed in claim 17, further comprising a robot for automatically connecting the at least one teat cup to the teat. 29. A method of milking an animal by means of a milking device provided with at least one teat cup having a pulsation space and a teat space, the teat space being connected to a vacuum source via a milk tube, the teat space and the milk tube forming a milking space, the method comprising successively: a connection step in which the teat cup is connected to the teat; a milk-drawing step in which a pulsating pulsation vacuum is applied to the pulsation space and a milking vacuum is applied to the teat space; a disconnection-preparing step in which the milking vacuum is lowered; and a disconnection step in which the teat cup is actively drawn away from the teat on determination that the vacuum level in the milking space has come below a threshold value during the disconnection-preparing step. 