An end effecter (201) is provided herein which comprises a blade (203) having a depression (213) formed in the surface (210) thereof, an elastomeric pad (209) disposed in the depression and a fastener (215) for releasably securing the pad within the depression such that a portion of the pad extends above the surface of the blade.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An end effecter, comprising: a blade having a first depression formed in the surface thereof; an elastomeric pad disposed in said first depression; and a fastener for releasably securing the pad within said first depression such that a portion of the pad extends above the surface of the blade; wherein said first depression has a wall and a bottom, and wherein said wall comprises (a) a first vertical section adjacent to a first major surface of the blade, and (b) a second curved section adjacent to the bottom of the first depression. 2. The end effecter of claim 1, wherein said pad is an O-ring, and wherein said fastener extends through the center of said O-ring. 3. The end effecter of claim 2, wherein said fastener has a tapered head. 4. The end effecter of claim 3, wherein said tapered head abuts a portion of the surface of the O-ring, and is essentially complimentary in shape to said portion. 5. The end effecter of claim 3, wherein said depression has a vertical wall, and wherein the minimum distance between said tapered head and said vertical wall is less than the diameter of the O-ring. 6. The end effecter of claim 2, wherein said fastener has a tapered head with a substantially planar surface, and wherein said planar surface is disposed within the annulus of said O-ring. 7. The end effecter of claim 1, wherein said second section extends outwardly from said first section. 8. The end effecter of claim 1, wherein said first depression has a wall and a bottom, wherein said bottom has an aperture therein, and wherein said fastener has at least one resilient prong that extends through said aperture. 9. The end effecter of claim 8, wherein said prong has a tapered outer surface that engages the edge of said aperture. 10. The end effecter of claim 9, wherein said blade has first and second major surfaces, wherein said pad extends above said first major surface, and wherein said aperture is in open communication with said second major surface. 11. The end effecter of claim 8, further comprising a second depression, and wherein said aperture is in open communication with said first and second depressions. 12. The end effecter of claim 1, wherein said elastomer is a fluoroelastomer. 13. The end effecter of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of depressions, each of said plurality of depressions having an elastomeric pad disposed therein. 14. The end effecter of claim 13, wherein said plurality of pads are adapted to support a wafer in a first position in which a portion of the wafer extends over the distal end of the blade, and in a second position in which no portion of the wafer extends over the distal end of the blade. 15. The end effecter of claim 14, wherein said blade has first and second opposing edges, and wherein said plurality of pads includes a first set of at least two pads disposed along a first edge of said blade, and a second set of at least two pads disposed along a second edge of said blade. 16. An end effecter, comprising: a substantially planar blade having first and second major opposing surfaces, said first major surface having a plurality of depressions formed therein; a plurality of elastomeric O-rings, each disposed in one of said plurality of depressions; and a plurality of fasteners, each adapted to releasably secure one of said plurality of 0-rings within one of said depressions such that a portion of the O-ring extends above the first major surface of the blade; wherein each of said plurality of depressions has a wall and a bottom, and wherein said wall comprises (a) a first vertical section adjacent to a first major surface of the blade, and (b) a second curved section adjacent to the bottom of the first depression. 17. The end effecter of claim 16, wherein each of said plurality of depressions has a wall and a bottom, wherein said bottom has an aperture therein, and wherein said fastener has at least one resilient prong that extends through said aperture. 18. The end effecter of claim 17, wherein said prong has a tapered outer surface that engages an edge of said aperture. 19. The end effecter of claim 16, wherein said plurality of O-rings are adapted to support a wafer in a first position in which a portion of the wafer extends over the distal end of the blade, and in a second position in which no portion of the wafer extends over the distal end of the blade. 20. The end effecter of claim 19, wherein said blade has first and second opposing edges, and wherein said plurality of O-rings includes a first set of at least two O-rings disposed along a first edge of said blade, and a second set of at least two O-rings disposed along a second edge of said blade. 