A storage library includes cells supported within a frame for holding media elements. A robot assembly is operable for moving toward the cells and manipulating media elements held by the cells. The robot is containable within a module which is removably mountable to the frame to provide modular replacement and removal of the robot from the frame. The robot is contained within the module as the module is mounted to the frame and moves out from the module to move toward the cells and manipulate media elements held by the cells while the module is mounted to the frame. The module is removably dismounted out of the frame while the robot is contained within the module to provide the modular removal of the robot. The module is removably mounted into the frame while a new robot is contained within the module to provide the modular replacement of the robot.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A storage library comprising: a frame; a plurality of cells supported within the frame for holding media elements, the cells positioned within the frame to form a channel running up and down through the frame; and a robotics module having a housing, a platform movably connected to the housing to move relative to the housing, and a picker supported on the platform; wherein the robotics module is mounted to the frame such that the housing is supported by the frame and the platform is positioned within the channel to move up and down through the channel as the platform moves relative to the housing, wherein the platform is moved through the channel to move the picker through the channel and toward one of the cells for the picker to manipulate a media element held by the cell; wherein the robotics module has a contained position in which the platform meets the housing such that the picker is contained between the housing and the platform, wherein while in the contained position the robotics module is dismountable from the frame in order to provide modular replacement and removal of the robotics module into and out of the frame. 2. The library of claim 1 wherein: the robotics module is mounted to a front side of the frame. 3. The library of claim 1 wherein: the robotics module is mounted to a back side of the frame. 4. The library of claim 1 wherein: the robotics module is mounted to the frame independent of the support provided by the frame to the cells. 5. The library of claim 1 further comprising: a drive supported in the frame and positioned adjacent to the channel for receiving a media element; wherein the picker is operable to load a media element held by a cell into the drive. 6. The library of claim 1 further comprising: a device having at least one of a power supply and a controller, the device having a plug-connector; wherein the robotics module has a corresponding plug-connector, wherein the plug connectors connect with one another to connect the robotics module to the device while the robotics module is mounted to the frame. 7. A robotics module for a storage library having a plurality of cells supported within a frame for holding media elements with the cells being positioned within the frame to form a channel running up and down through the frame, the robotics module comprising: a housing; a platform movably connected to the housing to move relative to the housing; and a picker supported on the platform; wherein the housing mounts to the frame such that the platform is positioned within the channel to move up and down through the channel as the platform moves relative to the housing, wherein the platform moves through the channel to move the picker through the channel and toward one of the cells for the picker to manipulate a media element held by the cell; wherein the robotics module has a contained position in which the platform meets the housing such that the picker is contained between the housing and the platform wherein while in the contained position the robotics module dismounts from the frame to provide modular replacement and removal of the robotics module into and out of the frame. 8. The robotics module of claim 7 wherein: the housing is mounted to a front side of the frame. 9. The robotics module of claim 7 wherein: the housing is mounted to a back side of the frame. 10. The robotics module of claim 7 wherein: the housing is mounted to the frame independent of the support provided by the frame to the cells. 11. The robotics module of claim 7 wherein the storage library further includes a drive supported in the frame and positioned adjacent to the channel for receiving a media element, wherein: the picker is operable to load a media element held by a cell into the drive while the housing is mounted to the frame. 