In a first exemplary embodiment of the present invention, an automated, computerized method is provided for determining an illumination flux condition in a scene. The method comprises the steps of generating and storing a sequence of images of the scene, each one of the sequence of images comprising an array of pixels and corresponding to the scene photographed in a preselected polarization direction, different from the polarization direction of other ones of the sequence of images, determining a polarization sequence vector for at least one pixel in the array, as a function of color information for the pixel in the array, among the sequence of images; and utilizing the polarization sequence vector to determine one of a shadowed and lit illumination condition for the at least one pixel.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An automated, computerized method for determining one of a shadowed and lit illumination condition in a scene, comprising the steps of: generating and storing in a computer memory a sequence of images of the scene, each one of the sequence of images comprising an array of pixels, each one of the array of pixels comprising a set of color bands, and corresponding to the scene photographed in a preselected polarization direction, different from the polarization direction of other ones of the sequence of images; a computer executing the following steps: determining a polarization sequence vector for at least one pixel in the array, as a function of color information based upon the set of color bands, for the pixel in the array, among the sequence of images; and utilizing the polarization sequence vector to determine one of a shadowed and lit illumination condition for the at least one pixel. 2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of utilizing the polarization sequence vector to determine one of a shadowed and lit illumination condition for the at least one pixel is carried out by determining a normalized value for the polarization sequence vector. 3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of determining a polarization sequence vector for at least one pixel in the array is carried out by performing a mathematical line fitting technique with respect to the color information for the pixel in the array, among the sequence of images. 4. The method of claim 3 wherein the mathematical line fitting technique comprises a singular value decomposition technique. 5. The method of claim 3 wherein the mathematical line fitting technique comprises a RANSAC technique. 6. A computer system which comprises: a CPU; and a memory storing a sequence of image files, each one of the sequence of image files depicting a common scene, each one of the sequence of image files comprising an array of pixels, each one of the array of pixels comprising a set of color bands, and corresponding to the scene photographed in a preselected polarization direction, different from the polarization direction of other ones of the sequence of images; the CPU arranged and configured to execute a routine to determine a polarization sequence vector for at least one pixel in the array, as a function of color information based upon the set of color bands, for the pixel in the array, among the sequence of image files corresponding to the scene, and to utilize the polarization sequence vector to determine one of a shadowed and lit illumination condition for the at least one pixel. 