Simulating a microarray includes defining a number of parameters. A microarray is generated according to the parameters using an imaging procedure. The microarray is compared to a known value, and the imaging procedure is evaluated in response to the comparison. A simulated microarray image can be generated based on parameters. The simulated microarray can be associated with known values. An imaging procedure is applied to the simulated microarray image to generate observed values. The known values (e.g., intensities) can be compared to the observed values to evaluate the imaging procedure.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method of generating a simulated microarray image, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of simulation parameters; and generating the simulated microarray image based at least on the simulation parameters. 2. A computer-readable medium comprising computer-executable instructions for performing the method of claim 1. 3. A method comprising: generating a simulated microarray image based on simulation parameters, wherein the simulated microarray image is associated with known values; and analyzing the simulated microarray image via a microarray imaging procedure, the analyzing comprising calculating observed values. 4. A computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions for performing the method of claim 3. 5. The method of claim 3 further comprising: comparing the known values with the observed values to benchmark the microarray imaging procedure. 6. The method of claim 3 wherein the values comprise spot intensity values. 7. The method of claim 6 further comprising: generating a rating based on results of the comparing, wherein the rating indicates effectiveness of the microarray imaging procedure. 8. The method of claim 3 wherein the generating comprises simulating a fluorescent background level for the simulated microarray image. 9. The method of claim 3 wherein the generating comprises simulating spots for the simulated microarray image. 10. The method of claim 3 wherein the generating comprises simulating post-processing phenomena for the simulated microarray image. 11. A method for simulating a microarray, comprising: defining a plurality of parameters; generating a simulated microarray according to the parameters using an imaging procedure; comparing the simulated microarray to a known value; and evaluating the imaging procedure in response to the comparison. 12. A computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions for performing the method of claim 11. 13. A computer-implemented method of generating a simulated microarray image, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of simulation parameters; and generating the simulated microarray image based at least on the simulation parameters. 14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image is associated with known values, the method further comprising: analyzing the simulated microarray image via a microarray imaging procedure, the analyzing comprising calculating observed values; and comparing the known values with the observed values to benchmark the microarray imaging procedure. 15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14 wherein: the known values comprise signal intensities; the observed values comprise signal intensities; and the comparing compares the signal intensities of the known values with the signal intensities of the observed values. 16. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates random perturbations in array preparation, printing, and scanning. 17. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates background noise. 18. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates radius variation of cDNA deposition spots. 19. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates spot drift of cDNA deposition spots. 20. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates center core variation of cDNA deposition spots. 21. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates chord removal of cDNA deposition spots. 22. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates edge noise of cDNA deposition spots. 23. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates edge enhancement of cDNA deposition spots. 24. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates signal intensity. 25. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates channel conditioning. 26. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates spike noise. 27. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates scratch noise. 28. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates snake noise. 29. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the simulated microarray image simulates smoothing. 30. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the generating comprises randomization at a spot level of the simulated microarray image. 31. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the generating comprises randomization at a block level of the simulated microarray image. 32. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 wherein the generating comprises randomization at an array level of the simulated microarray image. 33. A computer-readable medium comprising computer-executable instructions for performing a computer-implemented method of generating a simulated microarray image, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of simulation parameters; and generating the simulated microarray image based at least on the simulation parameters. 