An independent and modular apparatus is disclosed for extending the operational capacity of a servo motor. The apparatus includes a frame member having a servo motor and a rotatable shaft mounted therein. The output shaft of the servo motor and the rotatable shaft are displace from one another. Means are incorporated for translating rotation motion from the output shaft to the rotatable shaft so as to enable a torque or rotational capacity for the rotatable shaft that is greater than that of the servo output shaft.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for providing enhanced hobby servo motor torque capacity, the apparatus comprising: a hobby servo motor comprising a first side and a second side wherein the output shaft of the hobby servo motor has a limited range of rotational motion; a first platform displaced from but connected to a second platform wherein the first platform is positioned proximate to the first side of the hobby servo motor and the second platform is positioned proximate to the second side of the hobby servo motor; a first aperture defined within the first platform and configured to support the hobby servo motor; a second aperture defined within the first platform and configured to receive a rotatable shaft; a rotatable shaft mounted within the second aperture; a first gear attached to the output shaft of the hobby servo motor wherein the first gear is configured to engage a second gear attached to the rotatable shaft; and a second gear attached to the rotatable shaft wherein the diameter of the second gear is greater than the diameter of the first gear. 2. An apparatus for providing enhanced hobby servo motor rotational capacity, the apparatus comprising: a hobby servo motor comprising a first side and a second side wherein the output shaft of the hobby servo motor has a limited range of rotational motion; a first platform displaced from but connected to a second platform wherein the first platform is positioned proximate to the first side of the hobby servo motor and the second platform is positioned proximate to the second side of the hobby servo motor; a first aperture defined within the first platform and configured to support the hobby servo motor; a second aperture defined within the first platform and configured to receive a rotatable shaft; a rotatable shaft mounted within the second aperture; a first sprocket attached to the output shaft of the hobby servo motor; a second sprocket attached to the rotatable shaft wherein the diameter of the second sprocket is smaller than the diameter of the first sprocket; and a chain connecting the first sprocket to the second sprocket. 3. An apparatus for providing enhanced hobby servo motor operational capacity, the apparatus comprising: a hobby servo motor comprising a first side and a second side; a first platform displaced from but connected to a second platform; a first aperture defined within the first platform and configured to support the hobby servo motor; a second aperture defined within the first platform and configured to receive a rotatable shaft; and wherein the first platform is positioned proximate to the first side of the hobby servo motor and the second platform is positioned proximate to the second side of the hobby servo motor. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising an attachment aperture defined within the second platform and configured to receive an attachment mechanism in order to secure the apparatus within an operational environment. 5. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a displacement mechanism positioned between the first and second platforms. 6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the displacement mechanism is attached to the first and second platforms. 7. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising a shaft rotatably mounted within the second aperture. 8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising means for transferring rotational motion from an output shaft associated with the servo motor to said shaft rotatably mounted within the second aperture. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said means for transferring rotational motion comprises a first gear attached to the output shaft, the first gear being configured to engage a second gear attached to the shaft rotatably mounted within the second aperture. 10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first gear is attached to the output shaft through an engagement with a spline mechanism. 11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said first gear has a greater diameter than the diameter of said second gear. 12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein said first gear has a smaller diameter than the diameter of said second gear. 13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first gear included a female spline receiver for accommodating attachment to a spline associated with the output shaft. 14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the spline includes a certain number of teeth, wherein the certain number of teeth is selected from a group consisting of 23, 24, and 25. 15. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the shaft rotatably mounted within the second aperture is configured to actuate a mechanical load. 16. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein said means for transferring rotational motion comprises: a first sprocket attached to the output shaft; a second sprocket attached to the shaft mounted within the second aperture; and a chain connecting the first sprocket to the second sprocket. 17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first sprocket has a greater diameter than the diameter of the second sprocket. 18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first sprocket has a smaller diameter than the diameter of the sprocket. 19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the first gear includes a female spline receiver for accommodating attachment to a spline associated with the output shaft. 20. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the output shaft of the hobby servo motor has a rotational angular capacity of less than a full rotation. 