Wafer inspection systems and methods are provided. One inspection system includes a module measurement cell coupled to a host inspection system by a wafer handler. The module measurement cell is configured to inspect a wafer using one or more modes prior to inspection of the wafer by the host inspection system. The one or more modes include backside inspection, edge inspection, frontside macro defect inspection, or a combination thereof. Another inspection system includes two or more low resolution electronic sensors arranged at multiple viewing angles. The sensors are configured to detect light returned from a wafer substantially simultaneously. A method for analyzing inspection data includes selecting a template corresponding to a support device that contacts a backside of a wafer prior to inspection of the backside of the wafer. The method also includes subtracting data representing the template from inspection data generated by inspection of the backside of the wafer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An inspection system, comprising: a module measurement cell coupled to a host inspection system by a wafer handler, wherein the host inspection system is configured as a stand alone tool, and wherein the module measurement cell is configured to inspect a wafer using one or more modes prior to inspection of the wafer by the host inspection system; and a processor coupled to at least the module measurement cell, wherein the processor is configured to detect defects on the wafer using output produced by the module measurement cell, and wherein the processor is further configured to use the output to determine if the wafer has backside contamination above a predetermined level and to determine that the wafer is not to be inspected by the host inspection system if the backside contamination is above the predetermined level. 2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more modes comprise backside inspection, edge inspection, frontside macro defect inspection, or a combination thereof. 3. The system of claim 1, wherein the module measurement cell is further configured to perform frontside macro defect inspection as the wafer is being moved into the module measurement cell by the wafer handler. 4. The system of claim 1, wherein the module measurement cell comprises an optical character recognition subsystem, a barcode reader subsystem, an alignment subsystem, or a combination thereof. 5. The system of claim 1, wherein the host inspection system is further configured to inspect an additional wafer while the module measurement cell is inspecting the wafer. 6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to use the output to determine if the inspection of the wafer by the host inspection system is to be performed. 7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to use the output to determine if the wafer must be reworked and to determine that the wafer is not to be inspected by the host inspection system if the wafer must be reworked. 8. The system of claim 1, wherein the module measurement cell is further configured as an additional host inspection module. 9. The system of claim 1, wherein the module measurement cell comprises an inspection subsystem, wherein the inspection subsystem comprises an illumination subsystem configured to direct light to the wafer and two or more low resolution electronic sensors arranged at multiple viewing angles, wherein the two or more sensors are configured to detect light returned from the wafer substantially simultaneously, and wherein the processor is further configured to detect the defects on the wafer using output generated by the two or more sensors. 10. The system of claim 9, wherein the illumination subsystem comprises a point light source. 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the illumination subsystem further comprises one or more optical filters coupled to the point light source, and wherein the one or more optical filters are configured to alter a wavelength spectrum of the light directed to the wafer. 12. The system of claim 9, wherein the light directed to the wafer comprises collimated light. 13. The system of claim 9, wherein the inspection subsystem further comprises an additional illumination subsystem, and wherein the illumination subsystem and the additional illumination subsystem are configured to direct light to the wafer at different azimuthal angles. 14. The system of claim 9, wherein the multiple viewing angles are substantially constant during inspection by the inspection subsystem. 15. The system of claim 9, wherein a position of the wafer is substantially constant during inspection by the inspection subsystem. 16. The system of claim 9, further comprising a support device configured to spin the wafer during inspection by the inspection subsystem. 17. The system of claim 9, wherein the two or more sensors comprise CCD cameras, and wherein the output generated by the two or more sensors comprises direct digital readouts. 18. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to determine which of the two or more sensors produces images with the largest sensitivity to defocus defects, and wherein the processor is further configured to select the images with the largest sensitivity for use in defect detection. 19. The system of claim 9, wherein the output generated by the two or more sensors comprises images, and wherein the processor is further configured to assign common coordinates to the images and to compare the images produced by different sensors. 20. The system of claim 9, wherein the inspection subsystem further comprises imaging optics coupled to the two or more sensors, and wherein optical axes of the imaging optics are not normal to sensor arrays of the two or more sensors. 21. The system of claim 9, wherein the defects detected by the processor using the output generated by the two or more sensors comprise defocus defects, small pattern defects, or a combination thereof. 22. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to select a template that corresponds to a support device that contacts a backside of the wafer prior to inspection of the backside of the wafer and to subtract data representing the template from inspection data generated by the inspection of the backside of the wafer to generate data representing defects on the backside of the wafer. 23. The system of claim 22, wherein the support device comprises a chuck, a stage, an aligner, or a wafer handler. 24. The system of claim 22, wherein the processor is further configured to create the data representing the template using computer-aided design. 25. The system of claim 22, wherein the processor is further configured to create the data representing the template by inspecting a backside of two or more wafers contacted by the support device and extracting common information from inspection data generated by inspecting the backside of the two or more wafers. 26. The system of claim 22, wherein the processor is further configured to subtract the data representing the defects on the backside of the wafer from data generated by inspection of a frontside of the wafer. 27. The system of claim 22, wherein the inspection data is further generated by subtracting backside inspection data from data generated by inspection of a frontside of the wafer. 28. The system of claim 22, wherein the processor is further configured to classify the defects on the backside of the wafer. 29. The system of claim 22, wherein the processor is further configured to correlate the defects detected on the backside of the wafer to defects detected on a frontside of the wafer. 30. The system of claim 22, wherein the defects on the backside of the wafer comprise defects caused by the support device. 