The present invention pertains to control systems and provides a run time configurable control system for selecting and operating one of a plurality of operating room devices from a single input source, the system comprising a master controller having a voice control interface and means for routing control signals. The system additionally may include a plurality of slave controllers to provide expandability of the system. Also, the system includes output means for generating messages to the user relating to the status of the control system in general and to the status of devices connected thereto.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method comprising: enabling receipt at a first controller of a first voice selection command and a first voice control command spoken by a human operator, the first voice selection command being uniquely associated with a first device; enabling a first control signal that corresponds to the first voice control command to be provided to the first device only if no new voice selection command is received first; enabling receipt at the first controller of a second voice selection command and a second voiced control command spoken by the human operator, the second voice selection command being uniquely associated with a second device, the first controller being in communication with the second device through a second controller; and enabling a second control signal that corresponds to the second voice control command to be provided to the second controller only if no new voice selection command is received first. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first controller and the second controller are in communication with a computer network. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein: the second device is a network gateway. 4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: enabling receipt at the first controller, in response to the second control signal, of patient data from the network gateway, the patient data including one of an X ray, an MRI, a CAT scan, an angiograph, or a patient history. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first controller is a master controller and the second controller is a slave controller. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first device is one of an operating room lighting system, an operating room table, an insufflator, or a laser. 7. A controller comprising: a first communication port configured to communicate with a medical device; a second communication port configured to communicate with a computer network; and an input section operable to receive voice selection commands and voice control commands spoken by a human operator, wherein: the controller provides a first control signal to the first communication port only when a first voice control command follows a first voice selection command uniquely associated with the medical device without an intervening voice selection command, and the controller provides a second control signal to the second communication port only when a second voice control command follows a second voice selection command uniquely associated with the computer network without an intervening voice selection command. 8. The controller of claim 7, wherein: the second control signal causes patient data to be provided to the controller through the second communication port. 9. The controller of claim 8, wherein: the patient data includes a medical image of a patient. 10. The controller of claim 9, wherein: the medical image includes one of an X ray, an MRI, a CAT scan, or an angiograph. 11. The controller of claim 7, further comprising: a third communication port configured to provide video information to a display device, wherein the controller provides the patient data to the third communication port. 