A method and apparatus to shield a cryogenic pump in a physical vapor deposition chamber comprising a physical vapor deposition chamber, a gasket in thermal contact with the physical vapor deposition chamber, at least one post in contact with the gasket, a radiation shield connected at the top of the post, and at least one intermediate ring in contact with the post. A method and apparatus for a radiation shield for a cryogenic pump comprising a cryogenic pump with a region upstream from the cryogenic pump, a gasket in thermal contact the region upstream from the cryogenic pump, at least one post in contact with the gasket, a radiation shield connected at the top of the post, and at least one intermediate ring in contact with the post.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. An apparatus to shield a cryogenic pump in a physical vapor deposition chamber, comprising: a physical vapor deposition chamber having an exhaust port; a gasket in thermal contact with the physical vapor deposition chamber, wherein the gasket has multiple fingers in contact with the physical vapor deposition chamber; a cryogenic pump connected to the exhaust port; at least one post in contact with the physical vapor deposition chamber; a radiation shield connected at the top of the post; and at least one intermediate ring in contact with the post. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein three posts are in contact with the physical deposition chamber. 3. An apparatus to shield a cryogenic pump in a physical vapor deposition chamber, comprising: a physical vapor deposition chamber having an exhaust port; a gasket in thermal contact with the physical vapor deposition chamber; a cryogenic pump connected to the exhaust port; at least one post in contact with the physical vapor deposition chamber; a radiation shield connected at the top of the post; at least one intermediate ring in contact with the post; and at least one post in contact with the at least one intermediate ring and the gasket and not with the radiation shield. 4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein three posts are in contact with the at least one intermediate ring and the gasket. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the gasket comprises beryllium copper. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one intermediate ring is two intermediate rings. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the shield comprises aluminum. 8. An apparatus to shield a cryogenic pump, comprising: a cryogenic pump; a region upstream from the cryogenic pump; a gasket in thermal contact with the region upstream from the cryogenic pump, wherein the gasket has multiple fingers in contact with the region; at least one post in contact with the gasket; a radiation shield connected at the top of the post; and at least one intermediate ring in contact with the post. 9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein three posts are in contact with the gasket. 10. An apparatus to shield a cryogenic pump, comprising: a cryogenic pump; a region upstream from the cryogenic pump; a gasket in thermal contact with the region upstream from the cryogenic pump; at least one post in contact with the gasket; a radiation shield connected at the top of the post; at least one intermediate ring in contact with the post; and at least one post in contact with the at least one intermediate ring and the gasket and not with the radiation shield. 11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein three posts are in contact with the at least one intermediate ring and the gasket. 12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the gasket comprises beryllium copper. 13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein two intermediate rings are in contact with the post. 14. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the shield comprises aluminum. 15. An apparatus to shield a cryogenic pump in a physical vapor deposition chamber, comprising: a physical vapor deposition chamber having an exhaust port; a cryogenic pump connected to the exhaust port; a gasket in thermal contact with the physical vapor deposition chamber; at least one post in contact with the gasket; a radiation shield connected at the top of the post; at least one intermediate ring in contact with the post; and at least one post in contact with the at least one intermediate ring and the gasket and not with the radiation shield. 16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein three posts are in contact with the at least one intermediate ring and the gasket. 