A riveting yoke assembly (11) comprises a yoke (30), a force applying mechanism (22) and a rivet forming device (34,36). The yoke has a first end (38), a second end (40), and a middle section (42) coupled between the first and second ends (38,40). An opening (44) is formed through the yoke between the first and second ends. The force applying mechanism (22) is coupled to the first end (38) of the yoke (30). The lower rivet forming device (36) is removably coupled to the second end (40) of the yoke. The lower rivet forming device (36) has a base end (46) attached to the second end (40) of the yoke (30) and a forming end (48) with a recess (50) to form rivets (17). The recess (50) has a concave, interior surface (52) having an annular step (54) positioned between a top edge (56) of the interior surface (52) and a bottom-most point (58) of the interior surface (52) in order to properly align the rivet (17).
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A riveting yoke assembly, comprising: a yoke having a first end with a plurality of fastener receiving openings, a second end with an opening extending therethrough, and a middle section coupled between said first and second ends, said middle section forming an opening between said first and second ends; a force applying mechanism releasably coupled to said first end via said plurality of fastener receiving openings in said first end; and a rivet forming device removably coupled to said second end of said yoke, said rivet forming device having a base end and a forming end, said base end being attached to said second end of said yoke via said opening in said second end and said forming end having a first recess to form an unformed end of a rivet, said first recess having a concave, interior surface, with an annular step positioned between a top edge of said interior surface and a bottom-most point of said interior surface. 2. A riveting yoke assembly according to claim 1, wherein said yoke is formed from steel. 3. A riveting yoke assembly according to claim 1, wherein said force applying mechanism is a hydraulic cylinder. 4. A riveting yoke assembly according to claim 1, wherein said force applying mechanism has an rivet engaging device to engage a formed head of a rivet. 5. A riveting yoke assembly according to claim 1, wherein said interior surface has a first radius of curvature on an outer side of said annular step and a second radius of curvature on an inner side of said annular step. 6. A riveting yoke assembly according to claim 5, wherein said first radius of curvature is greater than said second radius of curvature. 