The invention provides a method for inhibiting proliferation of neural cells. The neural cells can be tumor cells, glial cells, neuronal cells, and cells of the central or peripheral nervous systems. The method comprises contacting a neural cell with a molecule that disrupts the biological activity of a granulin molecule. In one embodiment, the molecule is an antibody directed against a granulin peptide. In other embodiments, the molecule is an antisense nucleotide directed against a granulin nucleic acid molecule, or a vaccine comprising a granulin peptide or a polynucleotide encoding a granulin peptide. The invention additionally provides methods for detecting and treating cancer in a neural tissue using granulin-related molecules. Also provided is a method for indenting differentially expressed gene products that are translated from mRNA species, using antibody-based screening of a cDNA expression library. This method, termed differential immuno-absorption (DIA), can be coupled to cDNA microarray hybridization and used in the identification of genes that play a role in the malignant progression of cancer.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for detecting cancer in a neural tissue comprising contacting a specimen containing the tissue with a molecule that specifically recognizes and binds a granulin D or a polynucleotide that encodes granulin D, wherein the molecule is an antibody or a polynucleotide, and detecting binding of the molecule to granulin D or a polynucleotide that encodes granulin D, whereby the binding is indicative of cancer. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecule is an antibody directed against a granulin D peptide. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecule is an antisense nucleotide directed against a granulin D nucleic acid molecule. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the tissue is human. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the tissue comprises a tumor specimen. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the specimen comprises cerebrospinal fluid. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the neural cancer is a glioblastoma, astrocytoma, or oligodendroglioma. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecule is an oligonucleotide primer directed against a granulin D nucleic acid molecule. 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecule is an oligonucleotide probe directed against a granulin D nucleic acid molecule. 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the molecule is labeled with a detectable marker. 11. The method of claim 10, further comprising detecting the presence of the detectable marker, whereby the presence of the detectable marker is indicative of the presence of cancer. 