An apparatus for transporting a storage media cartridge within a data storage library is disclosed. The apparatus includes a first pair of rack and guide rail, a second pair of rack and guide rail, and an accessor capable of moving on the first pair of rack and guide rail or the second pair of rack and guide rail. The first pair of rack and guide rail is located orthogonally from the second pair of rack and guide rail. Located at an intersection between the first pair of rack and guide rail and the second pair of rack and guide rail, a turn plate may change a moving direction of the accessor. The turn plate includes two racks and four guide rails with a conical shaped rack tooth located at an intersection of the two racks.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for transporting a storage media cartridge within a data storage library, said apparatus comprising: a first rack and guide rail pair, wherein said first rack is in parallel with said first guide rail, and said first rack has a plurality of rack teeth; a second rack and guide rail pair, wherein said second rack is in parallel with said second guide rail, and said second rack has a plurality of rack teeth, wherein said second rack and guide rail pair is located orthogonally from said first rack and guide rail pair; an accessor capable of moving from said first rack and guide rail pair to said second rack and guide rail pair; and a turn plate located at an intersection between said first rack and guide rail pair and said second rack and guide rail pair for changing a moving direction of said accessor, wherein said turn plate includes two racks and four guide rails, wherein said turn plate includes a conical shaped rack tooth located at an intersection of said two racks. 2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said apparatus further includes a plurality of guide rollers, wherein widths of said plurality of guide rollers are equal to widths of said guide rails. 3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein an inner profile of any of said guide rails is identical to a profile of any of said racks between their teeth. 4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said four guide rails on said turn plate are arranged in a square formation. 5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said two racks on said turn plate are arranged in a cross formation. 6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said turn plate is capable of being rotated by said accessor. 7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said turn plate is always aligned with said first rack and guide rail pair or said second rack and guide rail pair. 