An electrode position detection system for a welder having a laser that is projected in a lateral plane to laterally cross a welding wire at a location below a contact tip of a welding gun and a receiver that receive the laser bean after crossing the welding wire, and a measuring device that determines one or more parameter of the welding wire based on the received laser beam. Arc voltage measurements can also be used to determine one or more parameter of the welding wire.
Claims Having thus defined the invention, the following is claimed: 1. A method of determining a position of a welding wire after the welding wire has passed through a contact tip of a welding gun comprising: a) feeding said welding wire through said contact tip; b) providing first and second non-consumable electrodes that are spaced from one another, said first and second non-consumable electrodes spaced from said contact tip; c) forming a first electric arc between said welding wire and said first non-consumable electrode at least partially while no electric arc is formed between said welding wire and said second non-consumable electrode; d) forming a second electric arc between said welding wire and said second non-consumable electrode at least partially while no electric arc is formed between said welding wire and first second non-consumable electrode; e) measuring the arc voltage, arc current or combinations thereof of said first and second electric arc that was formed between said welding wire and said first and second non-consumable electrodes; and, f) calculating a relative position of said welding wire based on said measured arc voltages, measured arc currents or combinations thereof. 2. The method as defined in claim 1, including the step of measuring a relative lateral movement of said welding wire based upon said measured arc voltage, measured arc current or combinations thereof. 3. The method as defined in claim 2, including the step of storing a plurality of measured arc voltages, measured arc currents or combinations thereof, at least one of said stored arc voltages, stored arc currents or combinations thereof are correlated to a time, geographic location, a workpiece, a workpiece region, or combinations thereof. 4. The method as defined in claim 3, including the step of providing a switching mechanism to at least partially control the conductivity of each of said non-consumable electrodes so that said electric arc forms between said welding wire and at least one non-consumable electrode at least partially while no electric arc is formed between said welding wire and at least one other non-consumable electrode. 5. The method as defined in claim 1, including the step of storing a plurality of measured arc voltages, measured arc currents or combinations thereof, at least one of said stored arc voltages, stored arc currents or combinations thereof are correlated to a time, geographic location, a workpiece, a workpiece region, or combinations thereof. 6. The method as defined in claim 5, including the step of providing a switching mechanism to at least partially control the conductivity of each of said non-consumable electrodes so that said electric arc forms between said welding wire and at least one non-consumable electrode at least partially while no electric arc is formed between said welding wire and at least one other non-consumable electrode. 7. The method as defined in claim 1, including the step of providing a switching mechanism to at least partially control the conductivity of each of said non-consumable electrodes so that said electric arc is forms between said welding wire and at least one non-consumable electrode at least partially while no electric arc is formed between said welding wire and at least one other non-consumable electrode. 8. An electrode detection system for determining at least one welding wire position of a welding wire as the welding wire is fed from an end of a contact tip of a welding gun toward a workpiece during the welding of the workpiece comprising: a) a welding wire that is feedable through a contact tip of a welding gun; b) a plurality of electrical contacts positioned in a predetermined positioned about a location point, said location point positioned between said contact tip and the workpiece, at least one of said electrical contacts spaced from the workpiece and said contact tip of said welding gun; c) a power source that directs current through said welding wire to form an electric arc between said welding wire and at least one of said plurality of electrical contacts; d) a switching mechanism that controls the conductivity of each of said electrical contacts to control the formation and termination of said electric arc between at least one of said plurality of electrical contacts, said switching mechanism at least partially causing said electric arc to form between said welding wire and at least one electrical contact at least partially while no electric arc is formed between said welding wire and at least one other electrical contact; e) a measuring device to measure arc voltage, arc current or combinations thereof of said electric arc between at least one of said plurality of electrical contacts and said welding wire; and, f) a calculating device to determine at least one parameter of said welding wire based on said measured arc voltage, said measured arc current or combinations thereof. 9. The electrode detection system as defined in claims 8, wherein said at least one parameter of said welding wire includes a relative position of said welding wire to at least one of said electrical contacts, a relative position of said welding wire to said location point or combinations thereof. 10. The electrode detection system as defined in claim 9, wherein said at least one parameter of said welding wire includes a relative lateral movement of said welding wire. 11. The electrode detection system as defined in claim 10, including a storage device to store a plurality of measured arc voltages, measured arc currents or combinations thereof; and including a correlating device to correlate at least one of said stored arc voltages, stored arc currents or combinations thereof to a time, geographic location, a workpiece, a workpiece region, or combinations thereof. 12. The electrode detection system as defined in claim 9, including a storage device to store a plurality of measured arc voltages, measured arc currents or combinations thereof; and including a correlating device to correlate at least one of said stored arc voltages, stored arc currents or combinations thereof to a time, geographic location, a workpiece, a workpiece region, or combinations thereof. 13. The electrode detection system as defined in claim 8, wherein said at least one parameter of said welding wire includes a relative lateral movement of said welding wire. 14. The electrode detection system as defined in claim 13, including a storage device to store a plurality of measured arc voltages, measured arc currents or combinations thereof; and including a correlating device to correlate at least one of said stored arc voltages, stored arc currents or combinations thereof to a time, geographic location, a workpiece, a workpiece region, or combinations thereof. 