The present invention provides a magazine-based data cartridge library that, in one embodiment, comprises a plurality of shelves that are capable of holding a plurality of data cartridge magazines, one or more drives, a magazine transport for moving magazines within the cabinet, and a cartridge transport for moving data cartridges between a magazine and a drive.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A magazine-based data cartridge library comprising: a frame; a shelf system, operatively attached to said frame, for supporting at least two data cartridge magazines and comprising at least one shelf; a drive that is operatively attached to said frame; a cartridge transport device, operatively attached to said frame, for moving a data cartridge between one of said at least two data cartridge magazines and said drive; a magazine picker for displacing one of said at least two data cartridge magazines towards and away from said shelf; and an elevator for moving said magazine picker; wherein said magazine picker comprises: a magazine support; and means for transporting one of said at least two data cartridge magazines between said magazine support and said at least one shelf; wherein during transporting of one of said at least two data cartridge magazines between said magazine support and a said at least one shelf said magazine support remains in substantially the same position; said magazine support comprises at least a pair of support rails for engaging one of said at least two data cartridge magazines: said means for transporting is located in a space between said pair of support rails. 2. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1 wherein: said cartridge transport device comprises said elevator. 3. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: an entry/exit port for conveying one of said at least two data cartridge magazines between an environment that is exterior to a space defined by said frame and an entry/exit space that is interior to said space defined by said frame; wherein said entry/exit space is accessible to said magazine transport device. 4. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said pair of support rails are adapted to engage a pair of data cartridge magazine rails. 5. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 1, wherein: said means for transporting comprises: means for engaging one of said at least two data cartridge magazines; and means for moving said means for engaging. 6. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said means for engaging comprises: a member with a surface for contacting one of said at least two data cartridge magazines; an actuator for selectively providing a motive force for moving said member so that said surface moves into and out of position to contact one of said at least two data cartridge magazines; and a linkage that constrains said member to rotate about an axis. 7. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 6, wherein: said actuator comprises a rotational actuator that provides a rotational motive force. 8. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 7, wherein: said rotational actuator comprises an electric motor. 9. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 6, wherein: said means for engaging comprises a force limiter that is located between said actuator and said member. 10. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 9, wherein: said force limiter comprises a spring. 11. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 9, wherein: said force limiter comprises a first spring and a second spring. 12. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said means for engaging comprises: a member with a first surface for contacting one of said at least two data cartridge magazines and a second surface for contacting one of said at least two data cartridge magazines that is separated from said first surface; an actuator for selectively providing a motive force for moving said member so that said first and second surfaces move into and out of position to contact a one of said at least two data cartridge magazines; and a linkage that constrains said member to rotate about an axis. 13. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said member extends from a first terminal end to a second terminal end; said axis is located between said first and second terminal ends; and said first and second surfaces are located between said axis and said first terminal end. 14. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said member extends from a first terminal end to a second terminal end; said axis is located between said first and second terminal ends; said first surface is located between said axis and said first terminal end; and said second surface is located between said axis and said second terminal end. 15. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 14, wherein: said first surface comprises a third surface for contacting one of said at least two data cartridge magazines and a fourth surface for contacting one of said at least two data cartridge magazines that is separate from said third surface. 16. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 15, wherein: said second surface comprises a fifth surface for contacting one of said at least two data cartridge magazines and a sixth surface for contacting one of said at least two data cartridge magazines that is separate from said fifth surface. 17. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 12, wherein: said actuator comprises a rotational actuator that provides a rotational motive force. 18. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 17, wherein: said rotational actuator comprises an electric motor. 19. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said means for engaging comprises: a member with a surface for contacting a data cartridge magazine; an actuator for selectively providing a motive force for moving said member so that said surface moves into and out of position to contact one of said at least two data cartridge magazines; and a linkage that constrains said member to move linearly. 20. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 19, wherein: said actuator comprises a linear actuator that provide a linear motive force. 21. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 20, wherein: said linear actuator comprises a solenoid. 22. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said means for engaging comprises a belt; and said means for moving comprises an electric motor for rotating said belt. 23. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 22, wherein: said belt comprises a surface for engaging a surface of one of said at least two data cartridge magazines. 24. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said means for moving comprises an electrical motor. 25. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said means for moving comprises a solenoid. 26. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said means for moving comprises a lead screw. 27. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said means for moving comprises a belt-and-pulley system. 28. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said means for moving comprises means for linearly translating said means for engaging. 29. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 5, wherein: said means for transporting comprises means for sensing when said means for engaging has engaged one of said at least two data cartridge magazines. 30. A magazine-based data cartridge library, as claimed in claim 29, wherein: said means for sensing comprises an optical sensor. 