Systems and methods for testing samples, particularly biological samples are provided. The system includes an instrument for detecting molecules in samples, and a processor that communicates with the instrument to provide results-based control of the instrument to effect assay-based judging. For example, a system, including software, is provided that directs and performs assays such as diagnostic assays that employ a mass spectrometer. The output of the system, rather than a mass spectrum or other raw data form, is the diagnostic outcome, such as a genotype.
Claims What is claimed: 1. A system for performing biological assays in a multiplex format, comprising: a) a data acquisition instrument for detecting biopolymers in a sample or samples in a multiplex format, wherein said data acquisition instrument comprises a mass spectrometer; b) a data analysis processor integrated with said data acquisition instrument; wherein said data analysis processor determines the presence or absence of an object biological relationship from said acquired data, provides ultimate results-based control of said data acquisition instrument, wherein the system directs the instrument to obtain further data where the presence or absence of the object biological relationship is not determined, and said data acquisition instrument can be adjusted and directed by the processor based on the ultimate results to retest the sample at a different spot on the sample, or to retest the sample at an adjusted power setting, or to retest the sample at an adjusted measurement filter until the standard deviation of the biological results achieves a desired degree of certainty and the presence or absence of the object biological relationship is determined, or to proceed to another sample. 2. A system of claim 1, wherein said data acquisition instrument collects data from said sample or samples, said data analysis processor obtains an assay score for said data and directs said data acquisition instrument to re-test the sample to obtain additional data. 3. A system of claim 2, wherein said data analysis processor sums said additional data and said acquired data. 4. A system of claim 2, wherein said data analysis processor replaces said acquired data with said additional data. 5. A system of claim 1, wherein said system displays said object biological relationship in real time. 6. A system of claim 1, wherein integration is effected by a calling component that identifies a data result to make decisions regarding further data acquisition responsive to ultimate results. 7. A system of claim 6, wherein the processor comprises a programming interface that controls a dialog between the data acquisition instrument and the calling component. 8. A system of claim 1, wherein the data analysis processor a) establishes at least one data spectrum criterion based on a biological assay design; b) directs the data acquisition instrument to acquire data indicative of the biological sample; c) generates a data spectrum using the acquired data; d) compares the data spectrum to the at least one data spectrum criterion; e) adjusts the data acquisition instrument responsive to the data comparison; and f) directs the data acquisition instrument to acquire other data for the biological assay. 9. A system of claim 8, wherein the data analysis processor establishes the data spectrum criterion by generating a data spectrum criterion indicative of standard deviation for a characteristic of the acquired data. 10. A system of claim 8, wherein the data analysis processor establishes the data spectrum criterion by generating a data spectrum criterion indicative of statistical probability. 11. A system of claim 8, wherein the data analysis processor establishes the data spectrum criterion by generating a data spectrum criterion indicative of allele probability. 12. A system of claim 1, wherein said system further comprises a display that displays the data collected by said data collection instrument in real time. 13. A system of claim 1, wherein the data analysis processor further comprises a database, stores an assay design in said database, and directs said data collection instrument to acquire data in accordance with the assay design. 14. A system of claim 13, wherein the data analysis processor uses the assay information from said database to calculate the adjustment of the data collection instrument. 15. A system of claim 1, wherein the data analysis processor is configured as a computer device coupled to the instrument. 16. A system of claim 1, wherein the data analysis processor comprises a data processing routine to determine a diagnosis. 17. A system of claim 1, wherein the data analysis processor comprises a data processing routine to determine a genotype. 18. A system of claim 1, wherein the data analysis processor comprises a data processing routine to determine an allelic frequency. 19. A system of claim 1, wherein the data analysis processor comprises a data processing routine to determine a risk of developing a disease or condition. 20. A method for performing biological assays, comprising: a) introducing a sample into the system of claim 1; and b) acquiring data from said sample and determining the ultimate result of said acquired data. 21. A method of claim 20, wherein the data analysis processor a) establishes at least one data spectrum criterion based on a biological assay design; b) directs the data acquisition instrument to acquire data indicative of the biological sample; c) generates a data spectrum using the acquired data; d) compares the data spectrum to the at least one data spectrum criterion; e) adjusts the data acquisition instrument responsive to the data comparison; and f) directs the data acquisition instrument to acquire other data for the biological assay. 22. A method of claim 20 wherein said system saves the assay result in a database. 23. A method of claim 20 where in said system displays the biological assay result on a user interface. 24. A method of claim 20, wherein the object biological relationship is a determination of risk of developing a disease or condition. 25. A method of claim 20, wherein the object biological relationship is a diagnosis. 26. A method of claim 20, wherein the object biological relationship is a genotype. 27. A method of claim 20, wherein the object biological relationship is an allelic frequency. 28. The method of claim 20, further comprising a) introducing a solid support containing one or a plurality of samples into said mass spectrometer; and b) for one or more samples, measuring the sample by performing at least one assay on said sample and calculating a data spectrum. 29. A method of claim 28, wherein a) the data analysis processor establishes at least one data spectrum criterion based on at least one biological assay design; b) compares said data spectrum to the at least one data spectrum criterion; and c) if the data spectrum does not meet the data spectrum criterion, and the maximum number of a predetermined number of raster positions has not been measured, the data analysis processor directs the data acquisition instrument to measure the sample at another raster position on the solid support. 30. A method of claim 29 wherein said system saves the assay results in a database. 31. A method of claim 30, wherein said system saves the history of the assay results in a database. 32. A method of claim 31, wherein more than one data spectrum criterion is established and said data analysis processor removes or adds assays from the data spectrum criterion. 33. A method of claim 32, wherein said data analysis processor uses the history of the assay results in said database to determine whether to remove or add an assay from the biological assay result criteria. 34. A method of claim 20, wherein the object biological relationship is selected from the group consisting of a determination of risk of developing a disease or condition, a diagnosis, a genotype, or an allelic frequency. 35. A method for performing biological assays, comprising a) introducing a solid support containing one or a plurality of samples into the instrument of a system of claim 1, wherein said data acquisition instrument is a mass spectrometer; and b) acquiring data from said sample and determining the object biological relationship of said acquired data. 36. A system of claim 1, wherein the object biological relationship is selected from the group consisting of a determination of risk of developing a disease or condition, a diagnosis, a genotype, or an allelic frequency. 