According to a first aspect, a first conveyor system is provided that is adapted to deliver substrate carriers within a semiconductor device manufacturing facility. The first conveyor system includes a ribbon that forms a closed loop along at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility. The ribbon is adapted to (1) be flexible in a horizontal plane and rigid in a vertical plane; and (2) transport a plurality of substrate carriers within at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility. Numerous other aspects are provided, as are systems, methods and computer program products in accordance with these and other aspects.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A conveyor system adapted for use in delivering substrate carriers within a semiconductor device manufacturing facility comprising: a ribbon that forms a closed loop along at least a portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility, the ribbon including: a first section having: a vertical portion adapted to support substrate carriers; and a horizontal portion adapted to support a weight of the ribbon; and a second section coupled to the first section and having: a vertical portion adapted to support substrate carriers; and a horizontal portion adapted to support a weight of the ribbon; and a plurality of supports rigidly coupled to the ribbon, each support adapted to support and transport a substrate carrier within the at least the portion of the semiconductor device manufacturing facility. 2. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the ribbon is adapted to continuously rotate during transport and delivery of substrate carriers. 3. The conveyor system of claim 1 further comprising at least one of a driving wheel, a constraining wheel and a support wheel adapted to contact the ribbon and to be changed while the ribbon is in motion. 4. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the ribbon comprises: a vertical portion adapted to support substrate carriers; and a horizontal portion adapted to support a weight of the ribbon. 5. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the ribbon comprises stainless steel. 6. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the ribbon comprises a vertical portion having a first feature adapted to identify a beginning of the ribbon. 7. The conveyor system of claim 6 wherein the vertical portion of the ribbon further comprises a plurality of second features adapted to identify a location at which a substrate carrier may be held and transported by the ribbon. 8. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the ribbon forms a serpentine closed loop. 9. The conveyor system of claim 1 further comprising a plurality of housing sections adapted to surround at least a portion of the ribbon while allowing substrate carriers to be transported by the ribbon. 10. The conveyor system of claim 9 wherein at least one housing section comprises: a first opening adapted to allow at least one support wheel to contact and support the ribbon as the ribbon rotates; and a second opening adapted to allow at least one constraining wheel to contact the ribbon and to reduce lateral motion of the ribbon as the ribbon rotates. 11. The conveyor system of claim 10 wherein the at least one housing section further comprises: a third opening adapted to allow at least one driving wheel to contact the ribbon and to rotate the ribbon. 12. The conveyor system of claim 9 further comprising a plurality of housing section supports adapted to couple to and support each housing section. 13. The conveyor system of claim 12 further comprising a plurality of shields adapted to couple to the plurality of housing section supports and sized to cover substrate carriers being transported by the ribbon. 14. The conveyor system of claim 1 wherein the ribbon is adapted to transport single substrate carriers. 