A method is disclosed for measuring components (1) using a measurement system (20) guided by a manipulator (10). In this process, reference features (9, 9a, . . . , 9i) are decentrally located at various positions near a component (1) to be measured, the reference features each being assigned to at least one measuring object (6) located at a close distance to the particular reference feature (9, 9a, . . . , 9i) on the component (1) to be measured. Before a test object (6) is measured, the measuring system (20) is first brought into a calibration position using the manipulator (10), and the reference feature (9, 9a, . . . , 9i) assigned to the particular test object (6) is measured using the measuring system (20) to calibrate a coordinate system of the manipulator (10). Using the manipulator (10), the measuring system (20) is then moved into a measurement position, where the relevant test object (6) is measured. A corresponding device for measuring components and a component carrier (7) are also disclosed.
Claims The invention claimed is: 1. A method for measuring components using a measurement system guided by a manipulator, whereby reference features are decentrally located at various positions close to a component to be measured, the reference features each being assigned to at least one test object located at a close distance to the relevant reference feature to be measured, and, whereby, before a test object is measured, the measurement system is first brought into a calibration position using the manipulator, and the reference feature assigned to the particular test object is measured using the measuring system to calibrate a coordinate system of the manipulator, the measurement system is then moved via the manipulator into a measurement position which is located next to the calibration position, and the particular test object is measured in the calibration position, to measure point and lines extending into space and entire surfaces of the component. 2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein a group of test objects on the component to be measured is assigned to at least one of the reference features. 3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the measurement of the reference feature and the measurement of the test objects of the component are carried out in a contactless manner using the measurement system. 4. The method as recited in claim 3, wherein a laser light section pattern is provided to measure the reference feature the test objects of the component. 5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the calibration position is assigned near to the at least one test object to be measured. 6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the component contains a plurality of such test objects, and each of the test objects comprises at least one reference feature to calibrate the measurement system before measuring the respective test object. 7. A method for measuring components using a measurement system guided by a manipulator, whereby reference features are decentrally located at various positions close to a component to be measured, the reference features each being assigned to at least one test object located at a close distance to the relevant reference feature to be measured, whereby, before a test object is measured, the measurement system is first brought into a calibration position using the manipulator, whereby the reference feature assigned to the particular test object is measured using the measuring system to calibrate a coordinate system of the manipulator, whereby the measurement system is then moved via the manipulator into a measurement position which is located next to the calibration position, whereby the particular test object is measured in the calibration position, to measure point and lines extending into space and entire surfaces of the component, wherein, to measure the test objects of the component with the manipulator fixed in place, the measurement system is located on the manipulator such that it is linearly movable along a measurement system axis and/or pivotable around a measurement system axis and, during calibration, the position of the measurement system axis is determined in a coordinate system that is fixed relative to the reference feature. 8. The device for measuring components, with a manipulator, a measurement system located on the manipulator such that the measurement system is movable in space via the manipulator, a number of reference features decentrally located at various positions close to a component to be measured, the reference features each being assigned to at least one test object that is located at a close distance to the particular reference feature to be measured, and a control device designed such that the measurement system is first brought into a calibration position using the manipulator before a test object is measured, and the reference feature assigned to the particular test object is measured using the measurement system to calibrate a coordinate system of the manipulator, and the measurement system is then moved into a measurement position using the manipulator, which is located next to the calibration position and in which the particular test object is measured. 9. The device as recited in claim 8, characterized by a component carrier with means for retaining the component in a defined position on the component carrier and with a number of reference features located on the component carrier at defined various positions close to a positioned component. 10. The device as recited in claim 8, wherein the measurement system includes a measurement system that operates in a contactless manner. 11. The device as recited in claim 8, wherein the reference features represent stationary geometric reference points stored in a calculating unit in terms of their position in space. 12. The device as recited in claim 8, wherein each of the reference features includes a geometric body. 13. The device as recited in claim 8, wherein the measurement system includes a contour measuring device with a signal source for generating an optical sensing area and a graphic display unit that reproduces a section region of the sensing area with a measurement range. 14. The device as recited in claim 13, wherein the signal source includes a laser beam source. 15. The device as recited in claim 8, wherein the calibration position is assigned near to the at least one test object to be measured. 16. The device as recited in claim 8, wherein the component contains a plurality of such test objects, and each of the test objects comprises at least one reference feature to calibrate the measurement system before measuring the respective test object. 17. Component carrier for use in a method for measuring components using a measurement system guided by a manipulator, whereby reference features are decentrally located at various positions close to a component to be measured, the reference features each being assigned to at least one test object located at a close distance to the relevant reference feature to be measured, and, whereby, before a test object is measured, the measurement system is first brought into a calibration position using the manipulator, and the reference feature assigned to the particular test object is measured using the measuring system to calibrate a coordinate system of the manipulator, the measurement system is then moved via the manipulator into a measurement position which is located next to the calibration position, and the particular test object is measured in the calibration position, to measure point and lines extending into space and entire surfaces of the component, the component carrier comprising means for holding a component in a defined position on the component carrier, and a number of reference features and/or reference feature fixing elements for securing corresponding reference features to the component carrier located in defined various positions on the component carrier close to a positioned component. 18. The device for measuring components, with a manipulator, a measurement system located on the manipulator such that the measurement system is movable in space via the manipulator, a number of reference features decentrally located at various positions close to a component to be measured, the reference features each being assigned to at least one test object that is located at a close distance to the particular reference feature to be measured, and a control device designed such that the measurement system is first brought into a calibration position using the manipulator before a test object is measured, and the reference feature assigned to the particular test object is measured using the measurement system to calibrate a coordinate system of the manipulator, and the measurement system is then moved into a measurement position using the manipulator, which is located next to the calibration position and in which the particular test object is measured wherein, to measure the test objects of the component with the manipulator fixed in place, the measurement system is located on the manipulator such that it is linearly movable along a measurement system axis and/or pivotable around a measurement system axis and, during calibration, the position of the measurement system axis is determined in a coordinate system that is fixed relative to the reference feature. 