A multi-nozzle assembly may include a first nozzle configured to extrude material through a first outlet; a second nozzle configured to extrude material through a second outlet; and a third nozzle configured to extrude material through a third outlet, the third outlet being between the first and second outlets. Related construction processes and wall structures are also disclosed.
Claims I claim: 1. A construction method comprising: simultaneously extruding a first layer of two, spaced apart rims; and after extruding the first layer of rims, simultaneously extruding a further layer of two, spaced apart rims, each directly or indirectly on top of the first layer of one of the spaced apart rims, along with a first layer of filler between the first layer of two, spaced apart rims. 2. The construction method of claim 1 wherein the height of the first layer of rims and the first layer of filler are all substantially the same. 3. The construction method of claim 1 wherein the material used for the rims is different than the material used for the filler. 4. The construction method of claim 3 wherein the material used for the rims is plastic and the material used for the filler is concrete. 5. The construction method or claim 1 wherein the first layer of rims is permitted to cure before extruding the further layer of rims and the first layer of filler. 6. The construction method of claim 1 further including, after extruding the further layer of rims, extruding a further layer of filler on top of the last extruded layer of filler without also simultaneously extruding a further layer of rims. 7. A multi-nozzle assembly system comprising: a first nozzle configured to extrude a first material through a first outlet; a second nozzle configured to extrude the first material through a second outlet; a third nozzle configured to extrude a second material different from the first material through a third outlet, the third outlet being between the first and second outlets; a first valve configured to regulate flow of the first material to the first nozzle; a second valve configured to regulate flow of the first material to the second nozzle; a third valve configured to regulate the flow of the second material by the third nozzle; and a plurality of servo motors in communication with the first, second, and third valves, and operable to control the first, second, and third valves so that during a first time period, extrusion of the first material by the first and second nozzles is allowed while extrusion of the second material by the third nozzle is not allowed, then during a second time period, no extrusion by any of the first, second, and third nozzles is allowed, then during a third time period extrusion of the first material by the first and second nozzles, as well as extrusion of the second material by the third nozzle, are allowed; wherein the first material and the second material comprise construction material that hardens into a rigid structure after extrusion from a nozzle. 8. The multi-nozzle assembly system of claim 1 wherein each outlet has a substantially rectangular cross-section. 9. The multi-nozzle assembly system of claim 1 further including a nozzle position controller configured to controllably vary the height of at least one of the outlets with respect to the height of at least one of the other outlets. 10. The multi-nozzle assembly system of claim 1 further including a first and second trowel configured to shape material extruded from the first and second nozzles, respectively. 11. The multi-nozzle assembly system of claim 1 wherein the width of the first and the second outlet is less than the width of the third outlet. 12. The multi-nozzle assembly system of claim 1 further including an orientation-control mechanism configured to control the orientation of the multi-nozzle assembly. 13. The multi-nozzle assembly system of claim 12 wherein the orientation-control mechanism is configured to control the orientation of the multi-nozzle assembly in three dimensions. 14. The multi-nozzle assembly system of claim 1 further including a material feed system configured to feed material to each nozzle. 15. The multi-nozzle assembly system of claim 14 wherein the material feed system is configured to keep the material that is fed to the first and second nozzles separate from the material that is fed to the third nozzle. 16. The multi-nozzle assembly system of claim 14 wherein the material feed system includes a valve system configured to selectably cut off the flow of material to each of the nozzles in a controllable manner. 17. The multi-nozzle assembly system of claim 1 further including a controllable gate configured to controllably block material extruded from at least one of the nozzles from flowing in one direction. 