This application relates to methods of treating and ameliorating fibrosis, such as fibrosis of the pancreas. In particular, the application relates to methods of using a vitamin D receptor agonist (such as vitamin D, vitamin D analogs, vitamin D precursors, and vitamin D receptor agonists precursors) for the treatment of pancreatic fibrosis.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of treating pancreatic fibrosis in a subject having pancreatic fibrosis, comprising: administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound selected from the group consisting of 25-hydroxy-D.sub.3 (25-OH-D.sub.3) (calcidiol); vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol); vitamin D2 (ergocalciferol), 1.alpha., 25-dihydroxyvitamin D.sub.3 (calcitriol), calcipotriol, and combinations thereof to a subject having pancreatic fibrosis, thereby treating the fibrosis. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein administration comprises oral administration of the compound. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is administered at a dose of from about 5 international units (IU) to about 50,000 IU. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein administration comprises contacting pancreatic stellate cells with the compound, thereby treating the fibrosis. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is a mammalian subject. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is calcipotriol. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is 25-hydroxy-D.sub.3 (25-OH-D.sub.3) (calcidiol). 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol). 9. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is vitamin D2 (ergocalciferol). 10. The method of claim 1, wherein the compound is 1.alpha., 25-dihydroxyvitamin D.sub.3 (calcitriol). 11. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is a human. 12. A method of treating pancreatic fibrosis in a human subject having pancreatic fibrosis, comprising: administering a therapeutically effective amount of a calcipotriol to a human subject having pancreatic fibrosis, thereby treating the fibrosis. 