A wireless substrate-like sensor is provided to facilitate alignment and calibration of semiconductor processing systems. The wireless substrate-like sensor includes an optical image acquisition system that acquires one or more images of targets placed within the semiconductor processing system. Analysis of images of the targets obtained by the wireless substrate-like sensor provides position and/or orientation information in at least three degrees of freedom. An additional target is affixed to a known location within the semiconductor processing system such that imaging the reference position with the wireless substrate-like sensor allows the measurement and compensation for pick-up errors.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wireless substrate-like sensor comprising: a substrate-like housing; a power source adapted to provide power to the sensor; an image acquisition system comprising an area array device adapted to acquire an image of a target; a processor operably coupled to the image acquisition system, the processor being adapted to process the image and to obtain data relating a position of the target relative to a position of the sensor in at least two degrees of freedom; and a wireless communication module coupled to the processor to wirelessly convey the data to an external device. 2. The sensor of claim 1, and further comprising an illuminator to illuminate the target. 3. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the power source is rechargeable. 4. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the data relates a position of the target to a position of the sensor in at least three degrees of freedom. 5. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the data relates a position of the target to a position of the sensor in at least six degrees of freedom. 6. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the image is analyzed to detect a pattern in the image. 7. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the sensor is adapted to measure the distance between two predefined patterns in the image. 8. The sensor of claim 1 wherein the sensor recognizes characters. 9. The sensor of claim 1 wherein the sensor recognizes bar codes. 10. The sensor of claim 1, and further comprising a display operably coupled to the sensor to display the image. 11. The sensor of claim 1, and further comprising a component for recording the images. 12. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the processor is a digital signal processor. 13. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the processor is a microprocessor. 14. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the substrate-like housing is constructed from dimensionally stable materials. 15. The sensor of claim 1, wherein the sensor is configured to record values for later transmission to a host, and wherein the sensor uses its image acquisition system to recognize when it is no longer moving and then records the time and value of the offset. 16. The wireless substrate-like sensor of claim 1, wherein the housing is sized and shaped to be substantially similar to a semiconductor wafer. 17. The wireless substrate-like sensor of claim 1, wherein the housing is sized and shaped to be substantially similar to a liquid crystal display glass panel. 