A method for identifying or quantifying an organism by a detecting its nucleotide sequence among at least 4 other homologous sequences comprising amplifying nucleic acids from the organism to generate target nucleotide sequences to be detected; contacting the target nucleotide sequences with single stranded capture nucleotide sequences bound by a single predetermined link to an insoluble solid support and discriminating the binding of a target nucleotide sequence specific of an organism with a signal resulting from a hybridization by complementary base pairing between the target nucleotide sequence and its corresponding capture nucleotide sequence is disclosed. The capture nucleotide sequence is bound to the insoluble solid support at a specific location on an array having a density of at least 4 different bound single stranded capture nucleotide sequences/cm.sup.2. The location of the signal on the array allows identification or quantification of the organism.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for identifying and/or quantifying an organism or part of an organism in a sample by detecting a nucleotide sequence specific of said organism, wherein said specific nucleotide sequence presents a homology higher than 30% with at least 4 other homologous nucleotide sequences from other organisms comprising: amplifying said specific nucleotide sequence by PCR into double-stranded target nucleotide sequence using primer pairs which are capable of amplifying at least two of said homologous nucleotide sequences from other organisms so as to produce a full-length target nucleotide sequence having between 100 and 800 bases; contacting said target nucleotide sequence resulting from the amplifying step with single-stranded capture nucleotide sequences, said single-stranded capture nucleotide sequences being covalently bound in an array to an insoluble solid support via a spacer comprising a nucleotide sequence of at least 40 bases in length, wherein said array comprises at least 4 different bound single-stranded capture nucleotide sequences/cm.sup.2 of solid support surface and wherein said capture nucleotide sequences comprise a nucleotide sequence of about 15 to about 40 bases which is able to specifically bind to said full-length target nucleotide sequence without binding to said at least 4 homologous nucleotide sequences; and detecting specific hybridization of said target nucleotide sequence to said capture nucleotide sequences. 2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the amplified nucleotide sequence is a DNA nucleotide sequence. 3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the amplified nucleotide sequences are mRNA first reverse transcribed into cDNA and then amplified using said primer pair which is capable of amplifying at least two of said homologous mRNA in said sample. 4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the density of the capture nucleotide sequence bound to the surface at a specific location is more than about 10 fmoles per cm.sup.2 of solid support surface. 5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the target nucleotide sequence presents a homology with other homologous nucleotide sequences higher than 60%. 6. The method according to claim 1, wherein other primers are present-in the amplification step for the amplification of another nucleotide sequence. 7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the insoluble solid support is selected from the group consisting of: glasses, electronic devices, silicon supports, plastic supports, compact discs, filters, gel layers, and metallic supports. 8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleotide sequence to be identified and/or quantified is an RNA sequence submitted to a reverse transcription of its 3' or 5' end by using a consensus primer. 9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the nucleotide sequence to be identified and/or quantified are from the FemA gene of Staphylococci species selected from the group consisting of: S. aureus, S. epidermidis, S. saprophyticus, S. hominis and S. haemolyticus. 10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the solid support also bears capture nucleotide sequences specific of the homologous sequences specific for the binding with the homologous target nucleotide sequence together with a consensus sequence able to bind to said target nucleotide sequence and to said at least 4 homologous nucleotide sequences. 11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the solid support bears capture nucleotide sequences specific for the identification of two or more staphylococcus species together with a consensus sequence for a Staphylococcus genus identification. 12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sequence to be identified and/or quantified in the sample belongs to the MAGE gene family. 13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sequence to be identified and/or quantified in the sample belongs to the HLA-A genes family. 14. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sequence to be identified and/or quantified in the sample belongs to the dopamine receptors coupled to the protein G genes family. 15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sequence to be identified and/or quantified in the sample belongs to the choline receptors coupled to the protein G genes family. 16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sequence to be detected and/or quantified in the sample belongs to the histamine receptors coupled to the protein G genes family. 17. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sequence to be detected and/or quantified in the sample belongs to the cytochrome p450 forms family. 18. The method of claim 1, wherein said nucleotide sequence to be identified and/or quantified originates from a microorganism. 19. The method according to claim 1, wherein the density of the capture nucleotide sequence bound to the surface at a specific location is more than about 100 fmoles per cm.sup.2 of solid support surface. 20. The method according to claim 1, wherein the target nucleotide sequence presents a homology with other homologous nucleotide sequences higher than 80%. 21. The method of claim 6, wherein said other nucleotide sequence is an antibiotic resistance determining sequence. 22. The method of claim 1, wherein said organism is identified or quantitated by detecting a single spot signal at one specific location on said insoluble solid support. 