A hook pin unit for use in a manufacturing environment. The hook pin unit includes a pin having an orifice through a surface. A base having an orifice with the pin arranged within the orifice of the base. A hook arranged within the pin and moveable between a first and second position.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. An apparatus for holding a workpiece, said apparatus including: a pin having an orifice through a surface thereof; a base having an orifice therethrough, said orifice through said base having a flat edge which will align and hold said pin at a predetermined position, said pin arranged within said orifice of said base, said base having a circumferential shoulder; and a hook arranged within said pin, said hook extends through said orifice of said pin in a first position and aligns with said surface and creates a barrier for said pin in a second position. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pin having a cavity therein. 3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said pin having a circumferential flange on one end. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said pin having at least one notch in an end of said pin, said flange having a flat surface that will align with a flat surface of said base. 5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein said hook aligns with said notch to allow movement of said hook between said first and said second position. 6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said hook having an arm, said and having a flat surface that acts as said barrier in said second position. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said hook having an extension member that extends from an end of said hook, said extension member creates a barrier when said pin is in said first position. 8. The apparatus of claim 1 further including a spacer arranged over said pin and in contact with said base. 9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said hook including an orifice and a track therein. 10. A clamp for use in manufacturing, said clamp including: a body; a hook pin base secured to said body on an end thereof said hook pin base having an orifice therethrough; a pin arranged in said orifice of said hook pin base, said pin having an inner bore and an orifice through a surface thereof, said pin having a circumferential flange on one end and a first and second notch in said end having said circumferential flange, said circumferential flange having a first and second flat edge, said base having a circumferential stop which interacts with said flange of said pin, said stop having a first and second flat surface which aligns with said flat edges of said pin to align said pin in a predetermined position; and a hook at least partially arranged within said inner bore of said pin, said hook extends through said orifice of said pin in a first position and aligns with said surface of said pin and creates a barrier across said orifice of said pin in a second position. 11. The clamp of claim 10 wherein said hook having an arm, said arm having a flat surface that acts as said barrier in said second position. 12. The clamp of claim 10 wherein said hook having an extension at a top end thereof, said extension having a flat surface that creates a barrier for said pin in said from position. 13. The clamp of claim 12 wherein said hook having at least one orifice and a track therein. 14. The clamp of claim 13 wherein said orifice connects to a linkage member of the clamp, said track guides said hook between said first and second position. 15. The clamp of claim 10 further including a spacer arranged on said pin and in contact with said hook pin base. 16. The clamp of claim 10 wherein said orifice of said pin generally having a rectangular shape. 