The present invention provides methods for diagnosing mental disorders. The invention also provides methods of identifying modulators of mental disorders as well as methods of using these modulators to treat patients suffering from mental disorders.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A method for diagnosing bipolar disorder in a subject, the method comprising the steps of: (i) isolating a subject's brain tissue, wherein said tissue is selected from the subject's dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex; (ii) contacting the subject's brain tissue with a nucleic acid probe that selectively associates with an mRNA encoded by a nucleic acid with 95% identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3; (iii) detecting the level of said nucleic acid probe that associates with said mRNA; and (iv) comparing the detected level of associated probe with a control, whereby if the detected level is significantly greater than the control, an increased likelihood that the subject has bipolar disorder is determined; and whereby, if the detected level is not significantly greater than the control, an increase in said likelihood is not determined by the method. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is deceased. 3. A method for diagnosing bipolar disorder in a subject, the method comprising the steps of: (i) isolating a subject's brain tissue, wherein said tissue is selected from the subject's dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex; (ii) contacting the subject's brain tissue with a nucleic acid probe that selectively associates with an mRNA encoded by a nucleic acid with 95% identity to the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1; (iii) detecting the level of said nucleic acid probe that associates with said mRNA; and (iv) comparing the detected level of probe with a control, whereby if the detected level is significantly greater than the control, an increased likelihood that the subject has bipolar disorder is determined; and whereby, if the detected level is not significantly greater than the control, an increase in said likelihood is not determined by the method. 4. The method of claim 3, wherein the subject is deceased. 5. The method of claim 1 or 3, wherein an increased likelihood of bipolar disorder is determined, and further comprising treating said subject for bipolar disorder following said determination. 