A winding machine for winding wire on a stator stack for a dynamo-electric machine including a wire supply, a stripper station for selectively stripping wire at predetermined locations, a wire feed mechanism and winding station including a winding spindle movable in reciprocating and oscillating movement. The feed mechanism is capable of conveying plural wires to the winding spindle including three pairs of wires to respective exit apertures on the winding spindle. The winding station includes twisting assemblies, where a twisting assembly is provided for each pair of wires for twisting the pair of wires together and for gripping and manipulating the wires during a winding operation.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A wire stripper for stripping wire as it travels to a winding machine including a feed mechanism for drawing wire through said wire stripper and feeding it to a winding tool for winding the wire on a stator stack for a dynamo-electric machine, said wire stripper comprising an actuation assembly for actuating a movable blade member, said wire stripper further comprising: said movable blade member being located within said actuation assembly; said stripper includes a saddle member located adjacent said blade member and defining a pocket for receiving a wire; said actuation assembly supported for rotational movement about a rotational axis as the wire is conveyed along said rotational axis past said movable blade member and said saddle member; said actuation assembly defining opposing first and second ends and an opening at each end for passage of wire along said rotational axis from said first end to said second end; said saddle member being stationary, in a radial direction, relative to said rotational axis; and said movable blade member being movable in a radial direction, relative to said rotational axis, to engage the wire located in said pocket of said saddle member. 2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein said blade member is supported for axial movement in a direction generally parallel to said rotational axis. 3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein said axial movement of said blade member in said direction generally parallel to said rotational axis causes said blade member to move in a direction generally perpendicular to said rotational axis. 4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein said blade member is connected to an actuator for moving said blade member in said axial direction generally parallel to said rotational axis for selectively stripping an exterior surface of said wire located in said pocket of said saddle member. 5. The apparatus of claim 3 including a stop member located for limiting movement of said blade member in said direction generally parallel to said rotational axis, said stop member being movable relative to the blade member to adjust a stop location for said blade member. 6. In a winding machine for winding wire on a stator stack for a dynamo-electric machine, a wire feed comprising: a first plurality of segments connected together to form a first endless segment chain and supported to provide a first elongated run; a second plurality of segments connected together to form a second endless segment chain and supported to provide a second elongated run; each of said first and second endless segment chains comprising a respective chain and sets of segments mounted to said chains; said first and second elongated runs located adjacent to each other to define an elongated nip extending in a wire conveyance direction; a wire entry port located adjacent a first end of said nip for feeding wire to said elongated nip; and a wire exit port located adjacent a second end of said nip for receiving wire from said elongated nip. 7. The apparatus of claim 6 including a drive for driving at least one of said first and second endless segment chains. 8. The apparatus of claim 6 including a pressure member located behind each of said first and second elongated runs to provide a predetermined compressive engagement force to said runs at said elongated nip. 9. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the segments of at least one of said runs comprise a resiliently compressible surface for engaging said wire. 10. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein said wire entry and exit ports define elongated openings for passage of a plurality of wires in side-by-side relation therethrough, where said elongated openings are elongated in a direction generally transverse to said first and second elongated runs. 11. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein a plurality of wires are simultaneously conveyed between said first and second elongated runs, and including a wire guide tube for guiding said wire in side-by-side relation from said elongated nip to a winding tool. 12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein said wire guide tube comprises a pair of elongated, generally flat resilient strips located in spaced relation to define a wire passage therebetween, and a flexible sheath surrounding said flat strips, where said guide tube is resiliently flexible about one axis. 13. The apparatus of claim 6 including a winding tool comprising a cylindrical body for receiving a plurality of wires fed from said wire exit port, said body including structure defining a wire path leading from a wire entry at a bottom portion of said body to exit apertures in a side of said body. 14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said wire path extends to a side of said body diametrically opposite from said exit apertures at a location between said wire entry and said exit apertures. 15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein said exit apertures comprise elongated openings having an axis of elongation extending generally along the direction of a longitudinal axis of said cylindrical body. 16. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein each said wire path of said body guides a pair of wires through said body, each said pair of wires passing through one of said exit apertures for placement in a stator stack. 17. A winding machine for winding wire on a stator stack for a dynamo-electric machine comprising: a stator nest for holding a stator stack; winding tool extending through said stator nest for locating wire in a stator stack held in said stator nest; a wire feeder for driving wire relative to said winding tool; a wire gripper located adjacent said stator nest; and said wire gripper comprises jaws movable between an open position where said jaws are spaced from each other and a closed position where said jaws a located adjacent to each other to engage a wire extending from said winding tool. 18. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said jaws are rotatable to twist a pair of wire portions together. 19. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said winding tool is movable along a winding tool axis, and said wire gripper is movable in a generally transverse direction relative to said winding tool axis. 20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said wire gripper is further movable generally parallel to said winding tool axis. 21. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein said wire gripper is resiliently biased in said generally transverse direction by an air actuator. 22. The apparatus of claim 17 wherein said stator nest includes a pair of clamp arms supported for movement about pivot axes into engagement with said stator stack in said stator nest. 23. The apparatus of claim 22 wherein said clamp arms are movable in a direction transverse to said pivot axes to move said clamp arms down into engagement with said stator stack in addition to said pivotal movement of said clamp arms. 24. A method of winding wire onto a stator stack comprising: feeding plural first wire ends from an exit aperture in a winding tool located for passage through a stator stack; gripping said first wire ends with a wire gripper supported for movement adjacent said stator stack; feeding additional wire from said exit aperture in said winding tool and moving said first wire ends away from said winding tool with said wire gripper; rotating said wire gripper to twist said first wire ends together; and moving said winding tool through said stator stack to wind wire coils on teeth of said stator stack. 25. The method of claim 24 wherein said exit aperture comprises a slot, and said step of feeding wire ends comprises simultaneously feeding a pair of wires from said slot. 26. The method of claim 24 including applying a resilient force to said wire gripper, and further including the step of said wire pulling said wire gripper toward said stator stack against said resilient force at the beginning of said step of moving said winding tool. 27. The method of claim 24 including feeding a loop of wire from said winding tool at the end of said step of moving said winding tool, and including the step of said wire gripper engaging said loop of wire and drawing said loop of wire away from said winding tool. 28. The method of claim 27 including the step of cutting said loop of wire. 29. The method of claim 28 wherein, after said step of cutting said loop of wire, including the step of drawing said wire into said winding tool. 30. The method of claim 29 wherein, after said step of drawing said wire into said winding tool, including the step of moving said exit aperture to a location below said stator stack and feeding a predetermined length of wire while stripping an exterior coating from a predetermined portion of said wire. 31. The method of claim 28 wherein, after said step of cutting said loop of said wire, a drift tool is moved into engagement with wire coils formed in said stator stack, and said wire gripper rotates to twist second wire ends together. 