A swing cylinder having a body and an end cap on each end of the body. The cylinder also has a piston arranged within the body. The cylinder has a rod engaged with the piston and has an arm attached to one end thereof. A guide is arranged on the opposite end of the rod. The guide is also attached to one of the end caps.
Claims the Benefit of Provisional Application Ser. No. 60/651,178 filed Feb. 8, 2005 Claims What is claimed is: 1. A swing cylinder, said swing cylinder including: a rod; a piston arranged on said rod; an arm arranged on one end of said rod; and a guide housing arranged on an opposite end of said rod, said guide housing having a generally circumferential track within said guide housing, said arm rotates in a first plane, said first plane is perpendicular to an axis of said rod, said arm moves in a linear direction in a second plane, said second plane is parallel to said axis. 2. The cylinder of claim 1 wherein said rod having a slot through a diameter or a groove on a surface. 3. The cylinder of claim 2 wherein said slot or said groove having a generally helical shape. 4. The cylinder of claim 1 wherein said piston having a generally oval shape circumference. 5. The cylinder of claim 4 wherein said piston having an orifice therethrough, a fastener arranged in said orifice, said fastener interacts with said rod. 6. The cylinder of claim 1 wherein said guide housing having a channel, said channel arranged perpendicular to said track. 7. The cylinder of claim 6 wherein said rod having an orifice near one end thereof, a pin arranged in said orifice, said pin interacts with said guide housing. 8. The cylinder of claim 7 wherein said pin slides within said channel and within said track. 9. A swing cylinder for use in a manufacturing environment, said swing cylinder including: a body; an end cap arranged on each end of said body; a piston arranged within said body; a rod engaged with said piston and extending through one of said end caps; an arm attached to said rod on one end thereof; and a guide arranged on one end of said rod, said guide attached to one of said end caps, said guide having a generally circumferential track within said guide near one end thereof. 10. The swing cylinder of claim 9 wherein said piston having a generally oval shape, said body having a generally oval shaped bore therein. 11. The swing cylinder of claim 9 wherein said arm rotates in a first plane which is perpendicular to an axis of said rod, said arm moves in a linear direction in a second plane which is parallel to said axis. 12. The swing cylinder of claim 9 wherein said rod having a generally helical slot or groove at a predetermined position. 13. The swing cylinder of claim 12 wherein said piston interacts with said slot or said groove. 14. The swing cylinder of claim 9 wherein said guide having a channel, said channel arranged along a mid point of said guide, said channel being perpendicular to said track. 15. The swing cylinder of claim 9 wherein said rod having an orifice through a diameter thereof. 16. The swing cylinder of claim 9 further including a rod gland arranged over said rod and in contact with one of said end caps on an outer surface thereof. 17. The swing cylinder of claim 16 further including a rod shield covering said rod gland and a portion of said arm. 18. The swing cylinder of claim 9 further including an external guide device connected to one of said end caps, a cover arranged over said guide device. 