An edge inspection method for detecting defects on a wafer edge normal surface includes acquiring a set of digital images which captures a circumference of the wafer. An edge of the wafer about the circumference is determined. Each digital image is segmented into a plurality of horizontal bands. Adjacent edge clusters about the circumference of the wafer are combined into edge pixel bins. The edge pixel bins are analyzed via edge clusters analysis to identify defects. The edge pixel bins are also analyzed via blob analysis to determine defects.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. A system for inspecting a wafer comprising: an imaging device positioned generally above an edge of a wafer for capturing images of at least one portion of the edge of the wafer; and a wafer handling mechanism for moving the wafer relative to the imaging device such that the imaging device is addressable to at least one distinct region of the at least one portion of the edge of the wafer, the wafer handling mechanism including a support body for supporting the wafer and spatially establishing a plane of the wafer during inspection; wherein the imaging device is arranged relative to the wafer handling mechanism such that an optical path of the imaging device is substantially normal to the plane of the wafer. 2. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 1, wherein an optical path of the imaging device is substantially normal to the wafer. 3. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 1, the imaging device is addressed to a top bevel region of the edge of the wafer. 4. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 1, wherein the imaging device is simultaneously addressed to a top bevel region of the edge of the wafer and an edge exclusion region of the edge of the wafer. 5. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 4, where images captured by the imaging device include substantially the entire periphery of the edge of the wafer. 6. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 1, where images captured by the imaging device include substantially the entire periphery of the edge of the wafer. 7. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 1, further comprising a data processor coupled to the imaging device for processing images of the wafer edge. 8. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim of claim 7, wherein the processor is adapted to identify defects in the images of the edge of the wafer. 9. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 1, further comprising: a second imaging device positioned generally radially outwardly from the edge of the wafer, the second imaging device being positioned to capture images of at least an edge normal portion of the edge of the wafer. 10. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 9, wherein an optical path of the second imaging device is substantially in the same plane as that defined by the wafer. 11. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 10, wherein the optical path of the second imaging device intersects a center of the wafer. 12. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 10, wherein the optical path of the second imaging device defines a chord of the wafer. 13. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 9, wherein images captured by the second imaging device contain information about the edge of the wafer, the information including a datum concerning a defect chosen from a group consisting of thin film delaminations, chips, cracks, resist removal irregularities, and the presence of contaminating particles. 14. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 1, further comprising a bottom imaging device positioned generally below an edge of the wafer for capturing images of at least a portion of the edge of the wafer. 15. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 14, wherein an optical path of the bottom imaging device is substantially normal to the wafer. 16. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 14, wherein the bottom imaging device is addressed to at least a portion of the bottom edge bevel of the wafer edge. 17. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 14, wherein the bottom imaging device is simultaneously addressed to a portion of the bottom edge bevel of the wafer and a portion of a bottom surface of the wafer. 18. A system for inspecting a wafer comprising: a first imaging device positioned generally above an edge of a wafer for capturing images of at least one portion of the edge of the wafer; a first illumination device associated with the first for illuminating a field of view the first imaging device; a wafer handling mechanism for moving the wafer relative to the first imaging device such that the first imaging device is addressable to at least one distinct region of the at least one portion of the edge of the wafer; a second imaging device positioned generally radially outwardly from the edge of the wafer, the second imaging device being positioned to capture images of at least an edge normal portion of the edge of the wafer; and a second illumination device associated with the second imaging device for illuminating a field of view of the second device; wherein images captured by the first and second imaging devices contain information about the edge of the wafer, the information including a datum concerning a defect chosen from a group consisting of thin film delaminations, chips, cracks, resist removal irregularities, and the presence of contaminating particles. 19. A system for inspecting a wafer comprising: an imaging device positioned generally above an edge of a wafer for capturing images of at least one portion of the edge of the wafer; a wafer handling mechanism for moving the wafer relative to the imaging device such that the imaging device is addressable to at least one distinct region of the at least one portion of the edge of the wafer; and a bottom imaging device positioned generally below an edge of the wafer for capturing images of at least a portion of the edge of the wafer; wherein an optical path of the imaging device is aligned with an optical path of the bottom imaging device. 20. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 19, wherein an optical path of the bottom imaging device is substantially normal to the wafer. 21. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 19, wherein the bottom imaging device is addressed to at least a portion of the bottom edge bevel of the wafer edge. 22. The system for inspecting a wafer of claim 19, wherein the bottom imaging device is simultaneously addressed to a portion of the bottom edge bevel of the wafer and a portion of a bottom surface of the wafer. 23. A system for inspecting an edge of a wafer comprising: an imaging device positioned generally radially outwardly from an edge of a wafer, the imaging device adapted to capture images of at least a portion of an edge normal surface of the edge of the wafer; a wafer handling mechanism for moving the wafer relative to the imaging device; and at least one of a top imaging device positioned generally above the edge of the wafer to capture images of at least a portion of at least one of a top bevel region of the wafer edge and an edge exclusion region and a bottom imaging device positioned generally below the edge of the wafer to capture images of at least a portion of at least one of a bottom bevel region of the wafer edge and a bottom surface region of the wafer edge; and a controller programmed to create a dynamic reference image based upon the captured images. 24. The system for inspecting an edge of a wafer of claim 23, wherein the respective imaging devices are positionally registered with respect to one another. 25. The system for inspecting an edge of a wafer of claim 23, wherein an optical path of the imaging device is substantially in the same plane as that defined by the wafer. 26. The system for inspecting an edge of a wafer of claim 25, wherein the optical path of the imaging device intersects a center of the wafer. 27. The system for inspecting an edge of a wafer of claim 25, wherein the optical path of the imaging device defines a chord of the wafer. 28. A method of inspecting an edge of a wafer comprising: capturing at least one image of an edge of a wafer; processing the at least one image of the edge of the wafer to identify defects in the image, wherein processing includes comparing the at least one image to a reference image to produce a difference image; and exporting data concerning at least one of the found defects; wherein the at least one image includes image data from at least one distinct portion of the edge of a wafer, the at least one distinct portion of the edge chosen from a group consisting of an edge exclusion region, a top bevel region, an edge normal region, a bottom bevel region, and a bottom surface region. 29. The method of inspecting an edge of a wafer of claim 28, wherein processing further includes performing blob analysis on the difference image. 30. The method of inspecting an edge of a wafer of claim 29, manipulating the results of the blob analysis to identify defects using a statistical model. 31. The method of inspecting an edge of a wafer of claim 28, wherein processing further includes creating the reference image as a dynamic reference image based upon a captured image of the wafer. 