The present invention is directed to methods and compositions for depositing a noble metal alloy onto a microelectronic workpiece. In one particular aspect of the invention, a platinum metal alloy is electrochemically deposited on a surface of the workpiece from an acidic plating composition. The plated compositions when combined with high-k dielectric material are useful in capacitor structures.
Claims The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows: 1. A method for depositing a platinum-metal alloy onto a surface of a microelectronic workpiece, the method comprising the steps of: contacting the surface of the workpiece with an acidic bath comprising species of platinum to be deposited on the surface of the microelectronic workpiece, species of a second metal selected from nickel, cobalt, lead, and tin to be deposited on the surface of the microelectronic workpiece, and an acid, pH of the acidic bath ranging from about 0.5 to 3.0; providing an anode spaced from the surface of the microelectronic workpiece in contact with the acidic bath; applying electroplating power between the surface of the microelectronic workpiece and the anode; and depositing the platinum and the second metal onto the surface of the microelectronic workpiece, the amount of platinum deposited by weight being greater than the amount of the second metal deposited by weight. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the weight ratio of the second metal to platinum in the acidic bath is greater than or equal to 5:1. 3. The method of claim 1, wherein the platinum concentration ranges from about 1.0 g/L to 15 g/L. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the concentration of the second metaranges from about 5 g/L to 70 g/L. 5. The method of claim 1, wherein the acid is sulfamic acid. 6. A method of claim 1, wherein the acidic bath is at a temperature between about 40.degree. C. and 80.degree. C. 7. The method of claim 1, wherein the current density of the electroplating power ranges between about 10-100 mA/cm.sup.2. 8. The method of claim 1, wherein the acidic bath is at a temperature of about 75 C.+-.5 C. 