The present disclosure relates to a method and apparatus for controlling the transportation of a product from a first transporter to a second transporter. Further, a feed transport system and method of use is provided.
Claims We claim: 1. A method of controlling the placement of at least one of a plurality of product from a first transporter moving at a transport speed and having an output region to a second transporter moving at a baseline speed and having an input region and an output region, the method comprising the steps of: setting the transport speed generally equal to the baseline speed in the absence of a product; monitoring the output region of the first transporter for the occurrence of a first event, wherein the first event corresponds to one of the detection of the presence of or absence of a first one of the product in the output region of the first transporter; monitoring the input region of the second transporter for the occurrence of a second event, wherein the second event corresponds to one of the detection of the presence of or absence of a second one of the product in the input region of the second transporter; and controlling the transport speed of the first transporter and the baseline speed of the second transporter upon a detection of at least one of the first event and the second event, wherein the transport speed is determined to be one of a speed greater than, less than, or equal to the baseline speed and the baseline speed is determined to be one of a speed greater than, less than, or equal to the transport speed upon the detection of at least one of the first event and the second event. 2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first event corresponds to the detection of the absence of the first one of the product from the output region of the first transporter. 3. The method of claim 2, wherein the transport speed is increased from the baseline speed in response to the detection of the first event. 4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first event corresponds to the detection of the presence of the first one of the product in the output region of the first transporter and the second event corresponds to the detection of the presence of a second one of the product in the input region of the second transporter. 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the transport speed is decreased from the baseline speed in response to the detection of the first and second event. 6. The method of claim 1, wherein the controlling step further comprises deviating the transport speed from the baseline speed upon the detection of the first event when the baseline speed remains the same. 7. The method of claim 6, wherein the controlling step further comprises maintaining the transport speed at the same speed upon the detection of the first event and upon a change to the baseline speed. 8. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a signal when the first or second event corresponds to the detection of the absence of the first one of the product in one of the output region of the first transporter and the input region of the second transporter. 9. The method of claim 8, further comprising generating a signal when the first or second event corresponds to the detection of the presence of the first one of the product in one of the output region of the first transporter and the input region of the second transporter. 10. The method of claim 9, the controlling step including controlling the transport speed in response to the generated signal corresponding to the detection of the absence of the first one of the product. 11. The method of claim 10, the controlling step including controlling the transport speed in response to the generated signal corresponding to the presence of the first one of the product. 12. A transport control system for controlling the placement of at least one of a plurality of product from a first transporter to a second transporter, the first transporter having an output region and a first drive system to drive the first transporter at a transport speed and the second transporter having an input region, an output region, and a second drive system to drive the second transporter at a baseline speed, the transport control system comprising: a first sensor configured to detect the presence or absence of the product and positioned to detect the presence or absence of the product within the output region of the first transporter; a second sensor configured to detect the presence or absence of the product and positioned to detect the presence or absence of the product within the input region of the second transporter; and a controller connected to the first sensor and the second sensor, the controller configured to control the transport speed of the first transporter based at least on one of a first input signal from the first sensor and a second input signal from the second sensor, wherein the controller increases the transport speed above the baseline speed of the second transporter when the first input signal indicates that a first one of the product is not present in the output region of the first transporter, wherein the controller decreases the transport speed below the baseline speed of the second transporter when the first input signal indicates that the first one of the product is present in the output region of the first transporter and the second input signal indicates that a second one of the product is present in the input region of the second transporter, and wherein the controller increases the transport speed when the baseline speed is increased. 13. The transport control system of claim 12, wherein the first sensor includes an emitter and a detector configured to detect a signal emitted by the emitter. 14. The transport control system of claim 13, wherein when the first one of the product is within the output region of the first transporter, the signal emitted from the emitter is blocked by the first one of the product from reaching the detector. 15. The transport control system of claim 14, wherein the controller maintains the transport speed at the same speed upon the detection of the first one of the product within the output region of the first transporter and upon a change to the baseline speed. 16. The transport control system of claim 15, further comprising a third sensor configured to detect the presence or absence of the product and positioned to detect the presence or absence of the product within the output region of the second transporter. 17. The transport control system of claim 16, wherein the controller controls the baseline speed upon the detection of the first one of the product within the output region of the second transporter. 