Apparatus and method in the use thereof attaches an annular transponder unit to an annular tire surface, the transponder unit being of a type having a sensor housing coupled to an annular antenna. The apparatus includes a rotary turntable for supportably rotating a tire having an annular tire surface in an accessible disposition and an arm proximately disposed to the turntable and having end-of-arm tooling for attaching the transponder unit section by section to the annular tire surface as the tire is rotated. The tooling includes a gripping mechanism engaging the sensor housing and placing the sensor housing at a preselected location on the annular tire surface and a guide mechanism engaging the annular antenna and positioning the annular antenna section by section along the annular tire surface as the tire is rotated. An adhesive material applicator nozzle is disposed between the guide mechanism and the gripping means for application of the adhesive material between the annular antenna and the annular tire surface as the tire is rotated. A pre-staging station supporting the transponder unit may further be utilized, the arm moving between the pre-staging station and the turntable and the gripping mechanism engaging the sensor housing at the pre-staging station to transport the transponder unit from the pre-staging station to the turntable.
Claims What is claimed is: 1. Apparatus for attaching an elongate transponder unit to an elongate tire surface, the transponder unit being of a type having a transponder housing coupled to an elongate antenna, the apparatus comprising: a) a table for supporting a tire so as to render the elongate tire surface accessible; b) an arm proximately disposed to the turntable and having tooling means at a remote end for progressively attaching the elongate antenna section by section to the elongate tire surface; and c) means for establishing a relative movement between the tire and the arm tooling means between an initial relative position and a terminal relative position. 2. Apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising means for rotating the table relative to the arm tooling means. 3. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the tooling means comprises: gripping means engaging the transponder housing for placing the transponder housing at an indexed location on the elongate tire surface; guide means engaging the elongate antenna for progressively positioning the elongate antenna section by section along the elongate tire surface; and an adhesive applicator nozzle disposed between the guide means and the gripping means for progressive application of an adhesive material between sections of the elongate antenna and the elongate tire surface. 4. Apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising means for disengaging the gripping means from the sensor housing prior to initiating relative movement between the tire and the arm tooling means. 5. Apparatus according to claim 3, further comprising means for disengaging the guide means from the elongate antenna as the tire and arm tooling means substantially reach the terminal relative position. 6. Apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the guide means comprises at least two pivotal gripping fingers receiving the elongate antenna therebetween and maintaining the elongate antenna in a preferred position relative to the elongate tire surface. 7. Apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the gripping fingers rotate from a closed condition into an open condition prior to encountering the transponder housing. 8. Apparatus according to claim 1, wherein further comprising a remote pre-staging station supporting the transponder unit, the arm remote end moving between the pre-staging station and the table to transport the transponder unit to the tire on the table. 9. A method for attaching an elongate transponder unit to an elongate tire surface, the transponder unit being of a type having a transponder housing coupled to an elongate antenna, the method comprising the steps: a) mounting a tire on a support table, the tire having an elongate tire surface accessibly disposed; b) positioning an arm proximate to the support table, the arm having tooling means at a remote end; c) supporting a section of the transponder unit against the elongate tire surface by the arm tooling means; d) establishing relative movement between the arm tooling means and the tire between an initial relative position and a terminal relative position; and e) progressively attaching the transponder antenna section by section to the elongate tire surface as the tire and arm tooling means relatively move. 10. A method according to claim 9, comprising the step of establishing relative rotation between the arm tooling means and the tire by rotation of the table supporting the tire. 11. A method according to claim 9, further comprising the steps: gripping the sensor housing by gripping means disposed at the remote end of the arm; holding the sensor housing against an indexed location on the elongate tire surface; guiding the elongate antenna against the elongate tire surface section by section by guide means apparatus disposed at the remote end of the arm; and progressively applying an adhesive material section by section between the elongate antenna and the elongate tire surface as a relative rotation between the apparatus at the remote end of the arm is effected. 12. A method according to claim 11, further comprising the steps: disengaging the gripping means from the sensor housing as the tire approaches the terminal relative position; and applying the adhesive material to a final section of the transponder unit as the tire reaches the terminal relative position. 13. A method according to claim 12, further comprising the step of guiding the antenna section by section through an adhesive applicator nozzle as the tire rotates. 14. A tire having an elongate transponder unit attached to an elongate tire surface thereof, the transponder unit being of a type having a transponder housing coupled to an elongate antenna, and the transponder unit attachment to the tire being formed by the steps: a) mounting the tire on a support table; b) positioning an arm proximate to the support table, the arm having tooling means at a remote end; c) supporting a section of the transponder unit against the elongate tire surface by the arm tooling means; d) establishing relative movement between the arm tooling means and the tire between an initial relative position and a terminal relative position; and e) progressively attaching the transponder antenna section by section to the elongate tire surface as a relative motion between the tire and the arm tooling means is effected. 15. A tire according to claim 14, the transponder unit attachment to the tire being formed by the further step of establishing relative rotation between the arm tooling means and the tire by rotation of the table supporting the tire. 16. A tire according to claim 14, the transponder unit attachment to the tire being formed by the further steps: gripping the sensor housing by gripping means disposed at the remote end of the arm; placing the sensor housing against an indexed location on the elongate tire surface; guiding the elongate antenna against the elongate tire surface section by section by guide means apparatus disposed at the remote end of the arm; and progressively applying an adhesive material section by section between the elongate antenna and the elongate tire surface. 17. Apparatus for attaching an elongate transponder unit to an elongate tire surface, the transponder unit being of a type having a transponder housing coupled to an elongate antenna, the apparatus comprising: a) a rotary turntable for supportably rotating a tire having an elongate tire surface in an accessible disposition; b) an arm proximately disposed to the turntable and having substantially end-of-arm tooling for supporting and attaching the transponder unit section by section to the elongate tire surface as a relative rotation between the tire and the end-of-arm tooling is effected for substantially one revolution. 18. Apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the tooling comprises: a gripping mechanism engaging the sensor housing and placing the transponder housing at a preselected location on the elongate tire surface; a guide mechanism engaging the elongate antenna and positioning the elongate antenna section by section along the elongate tire surface. 19. Apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising an adhesive material applicator nozzle disposed between the guide mechanism and the gripping means for application of the adhesive material between the elongate antenna and the elongate tire surface. 20. Apparatus according to claim 18, further comprising a pre-staging station supporting the transponder unit, the arm moving between the pre-staging station and the turntable and the gripping mechanism engaging the sensor housing at the pre-staging station to transport of the transponder unit from the pre-staging station to the turntable. 